ParlaMint-DK_20181113130024	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113130030	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113130040	Thank you so much. Not only is it the Question Time, it is also an extended Question Time with the North Atlantic mandates, a good opportunity to discuss the Commonwealth and learn more about each other, and I think that this is well needed, even to such an extent that I believe, with all due respect to all of us, that I have to say that an extended Question Time cannot lift itself. That is why I am also pleased that this summer at our Kingdom Meeting in the Faroe Islands, the Layerman and the President of the Government and myself agreed that we should work together for greater knowledge across our three countries. In the wake of this, the government has proposed that money be set aside in the Finance Act... has discussed with the Faroe Islands and Greenland how to create such a programme that expands knowledge of each other, and I hope that before we close the Finance Act we can have a very broad partial agreement on this element. I think that would suit us and also be a good follow-up to the broad support that has been given to the agreement that Kim Kielsen and I have made on Danish investments in Greenlandic infrastructure. I have also noted that Operation Daywork and the Red Cross of Youth have already begun with the Danish-Greenlandian. Thank you for that initiative. In the Danish part of the Danish community, in Denmark, we are well into a new season. It is with the positive and optimistic backdrop that things are going well in Denmark that things are actually going quite well. Employment has never been higher. Over the last three years, the growth in the Danish economy has been above 2%, and currently the Finance Act is being negotiated. We have a film deal where Danish films are strengthened. All the parties of the Folketing are in it, thank you for that. We have an agreement on the research reserve, 1.4 billion. kr. for research and development in 2019. All the parties of the Folketing are in that agreement, thank you for that. We have an agreement on the rate pool, where all parties except one are included in an agreement that helps the most vulnerable in our society, so thank you to all of you. And then there has been a very strong desire from the Danish People's Party to abolish the re-priority contribution to vocational training. The government has bowed to that. We shall now do so from next year. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the pressure that has been put on the government, and also thank you for standing together to find the money for it. So, pawn by piece, we're gonna set up next year's Finance Act. We take joint responsibility for a richer, freer and more secure Denmark, and that is important. This is particularly important when we consider how, unfortunately, we now see examples of the gross failure of responsibility and confidence and security, seeing how our community is exposed to theft and deception. The cases of money laundering, the scandals of tax fraud deeply offend me, offend us all deeply. The bandits must be stopped. This also applies to bandits in suits. We need to put up defenses. So thank you for the support of a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, most recently when we agreed on a number of initiatives in September, among others. eighty-fold the fines for the largest financial undertakings if they do not comply with the money laundering rules. The Minister of Business discusses issues relating to the fight against money laundering and the strengthening of the FSA. This is happening in the financial conciliation area, where there have been meetings and where there will continue to be meetings, and the government is prepared to follow it to the end. The Treasury Minister is fighting a brave, rock-hard fight to get back the money that's been stolen from all of us in the profit case. Whitewashing, fraud is serious crime, but it is more than that, because it is really married to the trust in society, the trust that tickles us Danes together, and which also makes us, even though the tax is high, basically pay it with pleasure. It's subversive to the community. The same applies to the case of Filipino drivers. The conditions under which they have been accommodated by a Danish road haulage company are totally unacceptable. This is something that should be strongly opposed. We all do. I note with satisfaction that the authorities moved out and cleared their camp area. The joint efforts of the authorities are working, but we must strengthen them. We must work to strengthen efforts both in the European Union and at home, and we are currently discussing increased control under the Financial Law negotiations. In Denmark, we need to be aware of the fact that we treat people with proper and respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113130558	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. I must point out that Morten Østergaard, Radical Left, is not taking part in today's Question Time. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time, then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. It is first Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113130623	Thank you very much. After all, the Prime Minister has just been to France to mark the hundredth anniversary of the end of World War I. Much of the world community wants peace, but we must also note that we are living in a more uncertain time. Inuit Ataqatigiit wants the Arctic to be a peace zone, but at the same time we also see that Russia and England, for example. Armed in the Arctic, just as more and more Russian and Chinese state ships/warships are in Greenlandic waters. The US shows interest in establishing military runways in Greenland, China will invest in mining in Greenland, and we know that there is a Chinese state-owned company among the companies that can handle the expansion of airports in Greenland. Recently there was also a very large NATO exercise in Nordnorge, where 50,000 soldiers, including Danish soldiers, took part. The NATO exercise was intended to send a strong signal to Russia that we will be ready if there is a threat from here. In the Folketing we have an Arctic strategy for the Kingdom, which is valid until 2020, but it does not take into account the changing time that we are in. Inuit Ataqatigiit has asked in Greenland that we should make an Arctic strategy in Greenland, just as we have also criticised the fact that the foreign and security policy strategy is from 2011 that it is highly outdated. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister, who is also Minister of the Kingdom Community, whether the Prime Minister thinks that a more offensive style from the American, Chinese and Russian sides would give rise to a more up-to-date and more agile foreign and security policy in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113130816	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113130818	Thank you for that and thank you for this analysis of the situation in the Arctic and in the North Atlantic. I can completely confirm the picture that is being drawn, among other things. with an increased Russian activity, primarily as we can evaluate it defensively, but actually also with some offensive options. And it is also in that mirror image that we must see an expression of a growing American commitment, which I fundamentally welcome, because the Americans, together with the rest of us in NATO, are our defence. The government will be presenting in a very short time I wish my memory were flexible enough for me to set the date, but it must be next week a foreign and security policy strategy. After all, we used the instrument of parliamentary elections that, on top of an examination of our ambassador in India, Peter Taksøe-Jensen, we come up with a foreign and security policy strategy year by year, which will also be the subject of a debate here in Parliament, which will take place at the end of November. That's where we're gonna address this question. After all, we already did so when we made the defence settlement, where we also allocate increased resources to our presence in the Arctic. However, I fully agree that circumstances are moving, and that is something we must constantly take into account. I myself have just had the opportunity to be in Northeast Greenland with Sirius and also at Thulebasen, and it is quite clear to me that there is an increasing activity. This applies to the military strategic, security policy, but it also applies to the commercial sector, where there are more and more cruise ships, which are also putting pressure on our search and rescue. So I very much agree that we need to constantly deal with this, by the way, on the basis that we must maintain the Arctic as a low-voltage area, and that is also why we are using the Arctic Council and, in that sense, we also have a good dialogue with Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131030	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131033	Thank you very much for those answers. It can be said that in many ways this is a period in which a great deal is happening in Greenland. As I mentioned, there are these interests to invest from the Chinese side and from the American side and from the Danish side, both in infrastructure but also in business development and in the raw materials area. And as a starting point it is really gratifying that there is the interest to invest in Greenland, but there is also a need to ask some questions. Because you say there is no such thing as a free lunch... it sounds better in English than it sounds in Danish... but the point is that foreign interests in relation to Greenland do not just come because you are generous, but it is also because you have a self-interest. We have therefore also asked a large number of critical questions from Inuit Ataqatigiits. And with the knowledge we have, it can be said that there are certainly advantages in the system of self-government that we have, but we have also found that there is a need to improve the whole Community relationship. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: why do you think strong alliances are needed in an uncertain time, and how can we help to improve the community that we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131143	You have to say the PM instead of you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131147	Thank you. It is true that there is an increased interest in and around Greenland. I'd be sorry if you rubbed a Danish investment drive in line with an American and a Chinese. I do not regard Danish investment in Greenland as investment coming from abroad, but investment coming from the Kingdom Community. And that's exactly the perspective of this, since we're being asked about the uncertain times, that's why we have to act on them. There must be a balance between welcoming, on the one hand, an interest in investing it is good for growth, it is good for a self-sustaining Greenlandic economy and, on the other hand, avoiding naivety. That's one of them. Therefore, we in Denmark have a discussion about making screening mechanisms about foreign investment in particularly strategic infrastructure. We also have an interest in being in dialogue with both Greenland and the Faroe Islands about this, because I fully share the view that we must find a place in the Kingdom community, with respect under the Constitution that foreign policy is conducted by the government, where we can create a space where we can talk about these things. Because we must welcome investment, but we must, of course, also take care of our critical infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131309	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131311	Thank you. And I would like to try to hold on to that, because one might ask: what are the motives behind showing interest on the part of the United States? What are the motives behind showing interest from the Chinese side? Is this the prospect of increased tourism in Greenland? Is it because of a geopolitical power game going on? Or is it something else? Although these are natural critical questions in Greenland, there are astonishingly few of those who are asked in and from Inuit Ataqatigiits, we have been the only ones who have asked these questions, both in the Folketing, but also in Inatsisartut, because we think there is a need to look constructively critically at: What are some partners we choose? What are some motives behind the interest they show? But also: What are some partners that are in line with Greenland's own interests and with the fundamental values of society that we have in Greenlandic society? After all, the Prime Minister has said in the past that we must look at a more open and inclusive foreign and security policy where Greenland goes further into the way we conduct foreign policy, but we have not seen any concrete initiatives yet. Can the Prime Minister lift the veil as to how it's supposed to happen? And is it only the governments, or will it also the parliaments, be involved in that process?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131429	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131431	There are two dimensions to this. I attach great importance to discussing these issues in my dialogue with the Greenland Government with Kim Kielsen in the lead. And it will be intensified in the light of the challenges we face. We also need to develop the space of confidentiality where we can discuss these things between Greenland, Denmark and the Faroe Islands. We have a strong tradition of this in Denmark with the security structure that is in the government and the dialogue that has historically also been in Denmark between the government currently in office and the party leaders in the Danish Parliament. And there we shall try to reach Greenland with that form of work. Otherwise, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the government is just on the verge of a foreign and security policy strategy, which, of course, is one of the priorities. In it there is the opportunity to take this discussion in an open forum, namely the Danish Parliament, when there is a question debate on strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131542	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, NQ.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131559	Greenland is changing, the kingdom community is also changing, just as the Arctic is generally changing rapidly. Each of us wants greater participation in world policy, in Community policy, but also in the Arctic policy in general. We have a strategy for the Arctic in the Commonwealth, which, as my colleague also said, is not as ambitious and not as transparent as one might wish. I think it is incredibly important that you have an Arctic strategy, which everyone feels strongly about and advocates, so I hope that the new Arctic strategy that is coming will be a strategy that we all feel we are part of. All the eyes of the world are on the Arctic at the moment. Greenland and thus also the Kingdom Community make up as much as 20 per cent. of the Arctic lands, so we really have something to say in the Arctic. Everyone is looking at what opportunities the Arctic can offer in terms of defence, geopolitics, infrastructure and tourism and the resources of the future in the Arctic region. I see NATO's build-up in the Arctic as an absolutely very important point in future relations between Denmark and Greenland. How does the Prime Minister of the Arctic feel, not just the Commonwealth, but the Arctic? What about the Prime Minister's glasses in the coming period?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131742	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131744	Yes, it is a big question, but first of all I see it in that way that we have and the world community should have an interest in maintaining the real Arctic as a low-voltage area. That is also what is behind the formation of the Arctic Council. This is also reflected in the NATO exercise that took place in northern Norway, which, as such, focused not on what some call the high north, i.e. the Arctic, but on the North Atlantic. I have no ambition to militarize the Arctic. After all, we have to deal with what is happening in Russia. We now have a situation in which the Russians have failed to comply with the INF Treaty for a number of years. This has now led the Americans to give notice of termination. This will be the subject of discussion at a NATO defence ministers meeting here at the beginning of December. We have to take that kind of pointing off, and we have to use our NATO umbrella to protect us. However, the aim must be to try to maintain international agreements that ensure the Arctic as a low-voltage area. We see Russian activities, which could potentially also have offensive capabilities, and we must be very, very aware of this, because the Arctic is, after all, part of humanity with all the things that relate to it, in relation to climate change and other things. So I think there should be the distinction between the Arctic and then the North Atlantic if that gives the hint of an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131946	Here you go, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113131949	Greenland is in the process of finalising the airport package, and in this context Denmark is very much involved in relation to the Prime Minister's willingness to help ensure that the infrastructure in Greenland meets the wishes of the people. It is a very important piece in our interaction in the Kingdom community. Having said that, I would like to say that the Prime Minister mentioned the Ilulissat Declaration a little indirectly, i.e. that the Arctic should be a low-voltage area. The Americans have reported that they want to help finance airports in Greenland in order to use them as dual-use airports. What does it mean for the Kingdom community in the future with the Prime Minister's glasses?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132038	Once we have reached an agreement with Greenland to co-finance two of the three airports, it is for several reasons. This is primarily because it makes the projects feasible, because the economy of those projects is significantly improved through Danish contributions and Danish state guarantees. And then it is also in full recognition that we live in a kingdom community where we must help each other to ensure that all parts develop optimally, and strategic investments are needed in Greenland if Greenland is to lift up and get full benefit from the potential there is, with tourism and exports etc. So that's what drives us. I have then taken note, and even with pleasure, of the fact that the US Department of Defense has issued a letter of intent which marks some American investment readiness. I am not currently reading it as a readiness to invest heavily in the airports we are talking about in concrete terms. But it is clear that it is a track that must be uncovered continuously. Now we're gonna have to pass this construction law... we're not gonna do it, because it's Greenland... but Greenland's gonna have to pass that construction law, and as an integral part of it, we're gonna have to make the shareholder agreements with the Danish Ministry of Finance. And then you have to take it from there. Then there will be some questions over time about Kangerlussuaq and Ilulissat, i.e. whether it can be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132206	I would ask that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132209	It's an exciting subject. Over the years we have had some very boring matters as regards the presence of the Americans in Greenland. Last and not least, there was Camp Century and the military remains that are not good for the environment and that we will not accept in any way still lies there. Despite the fact that we have taken up the boring issues with the Americans, the UN observer has also given us support in terms of our call for total clean-up. And despite the fact that 180 million have been set aside. kr. over a four-year period, according to the experts, it is not enough for total clean-up. What are the Prime Minister's thoughts on total cleanup? Are they 180 million? kr. realistic, or what are the Prime Minister's thoughts?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132317	Thank you, and here's to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132319	I can't take it from Mrs Aleqa Hammond if Mrs Aleqa Hammond thinks that you have had a rather boring experience. But I think it should also be mentioned, for the sake of completeness, that Greenland's economy has been supported by the fact that there has been an American presence in Greenland, and this also makes it quite topical with the activity that is around Thule and the derived employments that are in Greenlandic society. So it does not upset, you might say, the validity of the second question. And I am really glad that this special rapporteur from the United Nations has noticed the Danish-Greenland initiatives concerning American military presence in Greenland, which, as such, emphasizes that we take it seriously. And a process has been agreed. Here earlier this year the Minister for the Environment and Food, together with the President of the Naalakkersuisut, signed a joint agreement on clean-up, based on the idea that 180 million has been set aside in the defence settlement agreement. kr. over the next six years. A Danish-Greenland steering committee has been set up to implement that agreement, so I think that we have created a proper process around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132441	Thank you to the questioner, thank you to the Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Magni Arge, T. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132457	Hello. The question of whether the system of autonomy and the areas taken over are irreversible has often been discussed, both in legal literature and in the political debate. Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen stated in 2001 in a reply to MP Jóannes Eidesgaard that the new law on self-government would also make it possible to implement a new system with the clear aim that the system is not only political and moral, but also constitutionally anchored in a principle of irrevocability. The aim would therefore be that Denmark cannot even in the future take from the Faroese people what is once given. Does the Prime Minister, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, share the view that the system of self-government can and should be legally enshrined in a principle of irrevocability?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132602	I would love that I could just say yes or no to that. I think I have to reserve the fact that I must conduct an independent, closer study of state law. But the political aspect of this is that I can deal with it, and there I can say that I have the point of view that the special arrangement we have made is a system in which it is the Faroe Islands themselves, completely of its own motion, which, within the framework of the legislation, defines which areas one goes home and that therefore there will be no political interest or any room for me to see that one should start moving things the other way, and certainly not without a Faroese wish. However, for a deeper discussion on the state-law aspects, I will have to take the reservation that I will read the matter more carefully. I am happy to do so, and I would also like to have a direct dialogue on it when I report the curriculum.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132706	I dare say that the political starting point is probably the most important. For where there is a political will, there should also be the possibility of establishing a constitutional foundation. That is precisely what led to one of the great political dramas that we have witnessed down in northern Spain in Catalonia, where the system of self-government was rolled back in 2010. This has led to people being imprisoned, and voters have been beaten, and what do I know? But every time you ask someone in the European governments what they think of it, there is the answer that it is an internal political matter, and that is because you do not have the external right to self-determination enshrined for Catalonia in the Spanish Constitution. France, on the other hand, has done this to New Caledonia. There was a vote on independence 9 days ago and it was quite peaceful and proper. No one was beaten, there was no violence, and both the UN and others were involved in monitoring. I am not going to compare the Spanish state at all with the democratic traditions of the Danish state, but I have to say that Denmark has not recognised the Faroe Islands' right to self-determination vis-à-vis the world community. So my question is: will the government be prepared to do as France does and recognise the Faroe Islands' external right to self-determination vis-à-vis the international community, so that there is a firm commitment to respect international law and democratic traditions when it comes to a vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132836	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132841	When and if it comes to a vote; for it is decided in the Faroe Islands alone. As Prime Minister, I have also said in a consistent follow-up to statements from former Danish prime ministers with changing party-related conditions, what I am saying here is that if you want independence from Denmark in the Faroe Islands, it is a wish that we will respect. You don't really have to wrap that up in a whole lot of law. It is a very, very clearly formulated political commitment which has been made which, by the way, does not express any wish at all. I'd think it was an accident. I would find little comfort in the fact that after all we have now created the possibility of dual citizenship, so that I do not leave my own family in the crisis of identity said with a smile. But I'd think it was an accident. But if you make that choice in the Faroe Islands, it will by its very nature be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132938	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113132939	Then I assume that a Prime Minister's 2001 statement on irrevocability is as binding as today's Prime Minister's statement on the right to self-determination. Now we have to do something completely different. This is the police station in Tórshavn. It was 35 million. kr. more expensive than expected, allegedly because Faroese contractors would not offer the work. They withdrew because the building of the new police station in Tórshavn was launched in Denmark under EU tendering rules, which they did not feel comfortable with. I think it would be common sense and good merchantship and a logical act to use the Faroese procurement law, but it is not allowed under EU law, says ministers in the area of resort. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if this means that Denmark's commitment to the Faroe Islands is regulated from Brussels in several contexts rather than from Copenhagen, and that you are tied on your hands and feet in how you can work with the Faroe Islands in accordance with EU rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133038	I mean, for me, it is not about something being tied up in Brussels. It is about the fact that we have some procurement rules which also reflect some EU-law obligations that are otherwise good. For that is what thus creates the possibility that we can also participate in competition in a large internal market in the European Union, which has probably made our gross domestic product 10%. larger than it would otherwise be, and given to the regular LO family something that looks like about 60,000 kr. more a year than you would otherwise have had. As I understand it, without having had the opportunity to familiarize myself in advance, Danish police play in their procurement process according to those rules. That's the way it is. Then I'm sorry if there haven't been Faroese bids. I do not know whether it can also be linked to the fact that unemployment in the Faroe Islands is record low; that it is not enough to drive up a craftsman; that it sort of goes super well. I don't know if it could have played a part too. It is certainly not the case that the absence of Faroese offers has left Faroese industry and Faroese craftsmanship in pure idleness. It is not my impression of how things are going in the Faroe Islands at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133157	Thanks to the inquirer and Prime Minister. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, JF Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133203	Thank you. Then we go some air lags down to a case that is very concrete and very technically very small some would think but very important for some people. We live in a time when codes and numbers very much replace names such as identification of individuals. In Denmark you have CPR numbers and NemID, in the Faroe Islands you have personal numbers, and we are also developing our own real Faroese digital signature. However, in order to be able to make use of the rights they have as Danish citizens, many of them also need the Danish schemes. This applies to students, it applies to people who have to buy property, it applies to people who have Danish insurance, not least to sick people who go to Denmark to make use of the services which the Faroe Islands buy very much from Rigshospitalet. It is the case that the hospital's journal systems are attached to the NemID and CPR number systems. I have now spent a lot of time on this, and fortunately things have moved. It is now possible to get a so-called administrative CPR number, even if you have an address in the Faroe Islands, and I would like to thank the government for its willingness to do so. But you still have to show up physically in Denmark in order to get the crucial NemID. It sounds very easy to use that word, but it can even be very difficult for some people, especially older and old people with cancer, who come to Denmark for their treatment. I know examples of how this has been very difficult for them. However, in 2016, the government came at the request of the Faroese Layerman with a concrete proposal for a solution. It was a solution that would allow Faroese patients to get their entire digital identification in place before leaving home. That would mean a lot. My question is whether the Prime Minister is aware of whether something has happened on the basis of the initiative of the government itself in 2016 and, if nothing has happened, whether the Prime Minister knows why nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133411	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133413	Thank you. I guess you could call this going into the lower air layers, but that's where we humans live. Some of us even live in very low air layers, and so it is. There is, of course, a barrier here, and I have this starting point, and the government is starting from the fact that we need to have as few barriers between the three parts of the Kingdom Community as possible. In fact, we have also worked on this in a structured and systematic way, and this is also true in this area. Therefore, my response when the lagman turned back in February 2016 was that we had to resolve it. And in that light, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs, as it was then called, sent a proposal to the Faroe Islands in September 2016. It is true, as has also been said in a parenthesis, and I am glad that you have received the administrative social security number in relation to health care, but more broadly. The proposal is that certain Faroese municipalities should become extradition units in the Faroe Islands. And if you could put that model into practice, you will also be able to get a Danish NemID issued in the Faroe Islands with an administrative social security number. I understand that the Faroese Home Rule Government is still considering the proposal of the former Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, because since we sent the proposal, no reply has been given.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133544	There has been no answer in two years. I must say that I find it a little regrettable. But there could be a solution. So, it is true that in the Government's 2016 proposal for a solution it was the Faroese municipalities that should have the authority to issue these cpr numbers and NemID, so it might be possible that such a solution might, for politically-ideological reasons, create opposition in the Faroe Islands. It might also be thought that some of the legitimate reasons are that it is problematic that Faroese authorities should manage a Danish system and there are some problems that I know. But could it then be that it was said instead: Cpr numbers and NemID are Danish systems, and therefore we give a Danish authority in the Faroe Islands, namely Rigsombud, the authority to issue these numbers, that is to say to give the Rigsombud in the Faroe Islands the same powers in this field as citizens' service in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133651	One could imagine that, but that is, the most obvious and practical in terms of citizen knowledge and proximity and access to the Faroese People's Register and other things was to let the Faroese municipalities or some of them stand for it. So that is what we have proposed, and if that proposal cannot fly, then it has to be said to us. Now Mr. Sjúrður Skaale that it may be that some find it symbolically-politically difficult. Yeah, it could be. There may be so many reasons, but I don't know, because we haven't got any real feedback back. If it is the case that it is said that this proposal is not manageable and if we should not try to put it with a Danish authority in the Faroe Islands, then it is also an option. I certainly do not want to rule that out. I just think, as I think it is, that the Faroe Islands are addressing a problem; we fully recognise it; we say we have to solve it, here is our proposal. Okay, the next step must be that some people think something about our proposal, and if our proposal cannot fly, we must find another solution, and it might well be to put it in the hands of the Rigsombud.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133806	Here you go, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133807	Now I do not know what considerations there have been and why the proposal made by the government in 2016 has not been answered. I cannot complain on behalf of others, but I think it is a little unfortunate, I have to say. Now it is the case that many cousins, perhaps about half of all cousins, have lived in Denmark at some point and have thus acquired this digital identity. And that means that throughout the whole realm, everyone who lives in Denmark, everyone who lives in Greenland, and half of those who live in the Faroe Islands, have access to these systems without having to move their address and without having to travel to another country. Does the Prime Minister think that this problem, namely that we may have 20,000 to 30,000 citizens in the Danish Empire who do not have the same access as others, is a problem which is of an overall nature, that it is a problem that we have together and which needs to be solved jointly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133902	Yeah, I mean that for sure. I believe that this is a barrier and I believe that it must be resolved, but it must be done in cooperation. We have offered a practical, pragmatic solution to put this extradition task in Faroese municipalities. And if that, I would have said, encounters some feelings, that is, about the Faroe Islands managing a Danish social security number system, then let's talk about it. I just want it solved, but it takes two for a tango, and I think I have gone a long way here today by saying that if you in the Faroe Islands think it would be better done in practice if you placed that task with a Danish authority in the Faroe Islands, then we have to talk about it. There would be some internship about that, I can't figure it out, but there would be some internship about that. You have to crossroads in relation to the Faroese personal register and other things. I don't know, but you gotta talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113133955	Thank you. Then we move on, and this is Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134009	One of the issues that rightly concerns us all is, of course, the many economic scandals we are witnessing. It is whether it is fraud in the Social Security Agency, money laundering in honorable Danish banks, the problems of the tax administration or an international network that is behind the billions fraud against states. And best as we thought we'd seen it all, it gets worse, and there are still new revelations coming. In short, we see one more grotesque example after another that the community is cheated and deceived, that the contract on which we have built our society is threatened by the unique cohesion that we have in Denmark. There is nothing to say about many Danes asking themselves in these weeks: I play by the rules, I pay the tax I have to pay, how can others get away with not doing it? I have said in the past that with these matters we risk shaking the Danes' confidence in our political system and in our authorities. I'm afraid we're beyond that point. Trust has what is needed in this situation? Political leadership is needed. The Prime Minister hesitates, is passive. In my view, this is not the expression of timely political leadership. It is not because I am trying today to convince someone that we could have avoided everything that has happened if only we had another legislation, because much of what has happened is already illegal. But with the scale of the scandals, we have to ask ourselves the question of society, and not least as politicians: have we done it well enough? Are we regulating the financial sector well enough? Is the control okay? Is there a need for more regulation, more legislation, and not least, is there a need to strengthen our tax authorities? That is why I have two specific questions for the Prime Minister, which I have not been able to get the Prime Minister to answer in other contexts. Firstly, will the government help us split the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority into two, so that there will be both a clear and stronger focus on monitoring the behaviour of a financial sector, which obviously cannot figure out how to behave according to the rules of the game at least for everyone? Secondly, will the government be in favour of us once again having a public representation on the board of the banks, so that we get some into the boardroom, who not only think of short-term and shareholders' interests, but think of the interests of Denmark as a whole?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134245	Thank you. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134247	Thank you. I fully share the view in the description of the seriousness of the problem, both, you might say, independently because it is serious when you steal billions of dollars out of our common money box but also in this more derivative form, i.e. what it does to us. When today in Herning there is a verdict in a case of a servant who has been paid 53,000 kroner. in cash and the limit is DKK 50,000. So I fully share that view. That is why I think this is too serious to say this because there is a lack of leadership and who takes responsibility. When Mrs Mette Frederiksen herself says that it is not least about the need to strengthen the tax administration and the tax administration, I just have to point out that since the election of the Parliament we have strengthened the Danish tax administration by 13 billion. kr. kr.! This contrasts with the 300 million. kr., one cut out of the Danish tax administration during the period in which Mrs. Mette Frederiksen forgets with greater and greater systematics that she herself was in government. We add more employees; we take it very seriously. The Minister of Business has taken the lead and collected a broad majority to double the fines imposed on the financial laundering sector. There is a dialogue with the parties. Work is being done in the FSA, and we are prepared to act on it when the cases are properly disclosed. We are. And Mrs Mette Frederiksen is also welcome to attend the meetings of the Minister for Industry where these matters are discussed. The proposal to share the FSA and possibly place something in and strengthen the National Bank is, of course, a proposal which was also on the table last time I myself was Prime Minister. That is when it was made very clear and a committee was set up. The subsequent government, which Mrs Mette Frederiksen himself was involved in, with the then Minister for Business Ole Sohn, rejected the proposal because it had looked at the advantages and disadvantages, because it would leave the government in a position where it was doubtful whether one would have, one might say, the necessary access to draw on economic expertise. Then it may sound good, but it is a proposal that has been studied and that you yourself rejected with a SF trade minister in the lead. So it is not a proposal that I can buy into here today, but we are open to dialogue under the auspices of the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134509	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134511	I really think I dare speak on behalf of most Danes when I say that we do not need to clarify many of these matters any more, because we have already seen the consequences, and most of us also have the need to react more. I do not know whether I should interpret this as a no to ensuring a public representation on the board of banks. I think that's too bad. I think that the case of Danske Bank has confirmed me that it is not always that those who sit in the boardroom are thinking about the rest of society. That is why, as a Social Democrat, I think it is necessary to get society into the boards of banks, so there are some who ensure that there is an interest that is also about the rest of society. Unfortunately, that was a no on the part of the Prime Minister, at least that is what I hear. Then I hope that we can reach some other issues too, not least about the green one. Many of us were happy, but probably also a little skeptical when we heard the Prime Minister open the Danish Parliament 1⁄2 months ago. Now it should be the end of the footwork on the green area. Now we can hear that it is not intended for an overall climate agreement to be drawn up before an election. I heard something with a million green cars. Like others, I thought that sounded good. I just need the Prime Minister to confirm that what the government has subsequently proposed will realize a thousand green cars, and not the million, which the Prime Minister has previously been able to say I have blown up in relation to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134641	I didn't blow up at all. I have expressed the political ambition of the government, namely to set a deadline for registering a diesel and petrol car, which means that when you hit that deadline, you cannot sell diesel and petrol cars at all, which means that we must have green cars instead. And if you have to reach that deadline, it will be the case that there will be with the replacement frequency we have in the Danish car park, 1 million green cars at that time. Will 1 million green cars then come by the fact that, as the government proposes, we are extending the tax exemption for non-insanely expensive electric cars for a year? Of course there isn't. We've never said that either. However, this ensures that there is continued interest in that sector. What we have then said in order to achieve the great goal is that we need to think about this, because it takes some structural change in our society to achieve that objective. Among other things: After all, if we succeed in what is then our common ambition, which is to get people to switch to non-petrol-powered cars, then it will be an immediate gap in our money box, because we will simply lack tax revenue. We do. And that is why the government will, and will soon, set up a commission to prepare the whole basis for decision-making in order to achieve that objective. Because I don't want to go green and then punch a hole in the treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134809	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134811	No, but I guess you can try to strike a better balance between what you say from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and what happens in the negotiating room. I do not think we can take away from all of us who listened to the Prime Minister on the day that it was left, that the government wants 1 million green cars. When we go into the negotiating room, it is there that politics shows its true face, because it is not difficult to stand on the platform and talk about 1 million green cars; it is not difficult to change the colour of its party's logo with a green colour or put on a green tie or claim that suddenly, after working against climate policy, you want to be climate-friendly. The difficult thing is to go into the negotiating room and put concrete proposals on the table that can be realised, that are realistic and that will lead Denmark in a more green direction. And is it correct to understand that what the government has at present indicated, that is. What we can relate to in this parliamentary term will only provide a thousand green cars and not the million that the Prime Minister said would come to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134909	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113134911	Thank you. Yeah, I don't know how to dress. At least you shouldn't be as black-eyed as you are dressed today. I don't think you should be. I think we should welcome the fact that the government has set an insanely high ambition, which is important, and the more countries that subscribe to it, the more likely we are to achieve it, because it is also a question of pushing some car manufacturers into technology and development. I fully agree with the fact that I have actually tried in my life to be in negotiating rooms, that is to say, I do. That is also why I invited Mrs Mette Frederiksen before to come to the negotiations in the Ministry of Economic Affairs about the financial sector, because that is where it happens if you want to seek influence. That's also why we take it in this order that we say that we have an ambition. With the deadline we have set up, we should not be able to reregister petrol and diesel cars. In order to achieve ambition, many things need to be done, and the solution cannot be that we simply exempt electric cars forever, because then, after my best memory, we will be missing something that looks like 55 billion. kr. in the Treasury. And then we can welcome the fact that by 2030 we have a lot of green cars, but we also lack the welfare of 55 billion. kr. That is why we are expressing the political ambition. We are launching a Commission work to provide us with some of the tools needed to achieve that objective, because, yes, it is difficult, but I hope that Mrs Mette Frederiksen will be pleased that that ambition has been expressed with a commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135036	Thank you to the questioner and to the Prime Minister. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135045	Thank you for that, President, and thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. After all, I am the Prime Minister's best friend, and I am because I and the Danish People's Party are doing everything we can to ensure that the Prime Minister conducts a very good policy that the Danes will be happy about. And sometimes, when the Prime Minister is a little off course, we do what we can to get him back on track, and sometimes, when the Prime Minister goes and forgets some of the good things he says about, we remind the Prime Minister of them, so that we can help the Prime Minister on the right road again, when the Danes can see that things are going really well in Denmark. After all, the Prime Minister gave back in May-June a fantastic interview in the June issue of the Elders Case's magazine • The Prime Minister will remember it and I have hidden it in my office because I think it should not be forgotten. The PM's says, among other things:: I'm in on it. There is a large group of pensioners who have fallen victim when the government and the Danish People's Party made a tax and pension agreement in February of this year. So, frankly, we have not solved the so-called interplay problem for those people who have already retired. You ask, then, whether 350,000 400 000 pensioners can rightly feel cheated, and then the Prime Minister says: 'Well, that's a real problem. He then says: 'But I believe that in future financial law negotiations we will force ourselves to take an interest in the group that was not just taken into account in the tax and pension settlement. So my question to the Prime Minister is really: does he remember this excellent interview and will he take the trouble to send a copy of the magazine over to the country's finance minister so that we can sort of get something off his chest so that he can get some solutions for the country's pensioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135230	Thank you. Best friend - that's what you're supposed to have, and that's so, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, and thank you for that. Well, I remember that interview, and without being such a self-sustaining or something, it really seems to me to be a very sharp analysis I have given when I say that I would think that in the financial negotiations we will be forced to take this issue seriously, because that is exactly what is happening now. So it can be nicked. And I take it seriously. For it is quite right that we, together with the Danish People's Party, made changes which make it possible to remove from a forward-looking perspective what is called the problem of interplay with a terrible technical word, i.e. whether it is worthwhile to stay a little longer on the labour market or to make an extra effort, because what you win loses when you retire in set-off. And it is good that it has been handled, and it is good that senior prizes and other things have been made. Of course, this leaves some people who have retired on known terms and who have not received the corresponding economic boost in their backs. I meet them myself, and that impresses me. It wasn't many months ago that I met a lady over in Magasin who acted and who was happy with what we had done, but she had realized that it was just forward-looking and that it didn't help her, and she was really sorry. So I take this very seriously. It's all about money, because this can't be solved without money coming on the table. That is what we have the financial law negotiations for, and they are going on at the moment, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and I both know, and as it is a high priority for the Danish People's Party, and as I basically acknowledge the problem, I would just like to express the wish that we will be able to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135425	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135427	Thank you. I am glad that the Prime Minister was pleased that I raised this issue and that hopefully we can get a little bit of a change in it. What the Danish People's Party has put on the agenda is the more different things in this area from helping pensioners to better conditions. One is, of course, in general terms, in relation to the set-off rules that apply, both in relation to having a small capacity for work that one can still offer to society, and it is to the mutual benefit and benefit that there are some pensioners who actually offer themselves with a few hours on the labour market, but also, of course, for pensioners who cannot do so, but who must also benefit from the fact that the Prime Minister's own expression is better in Danish society in economic terms. Finally, we have also put on the agenda what is called the rate pool, this regulatory mechanism, in which, year by year, some of the pensioners' income has been taken and added to the rate pool, and that is not for the sake of Britta Nielsen and the company. It is of course in the interests of a lot of sensible projects, but it is of course the case that it is the pensioners that we think should keep up with more than half of the rate pool. If you look at what it would have been that a pensioner would often have more to himself this year if the rate pool had never been there, we are talking about 8,000 kroner. A year, it's quite a lot of money. So in this movement pool, can the Prime Minister also follow us that here is a challenge where it is natural that many pensioners feel why they, the pensioners, should contribute so much to this pool of rates? Why is this not a common task for the whole of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135559	Now I'm very sorry, or sorry? Perhaps I would actually think it was inspiring, but I would rather refrain from conducting a financial bill debate here for an open microphone, and it is also going on at the Finance Minister's office. May I not say quite basically that I think the rate pool agreement is a good agreement. It is a broad agreement that covers almost all the political parties of the Danish Parliament, minus the Enhedslisten, all of which has ensured that over a number of years we have had the opportunity to make some sharp efforts in relation to the society's vulnerable, but it is true that the money comes from somewhere, and that comes from the fact that you are regulating transfer income, and that is all, after all, it is different transfer income. What we are talking about here is pensioners, and I would certainly go so far as to say that it is true that when you retire, you are, like, retired, and then you have to live with everything else equal for the rest of your life, versus as many other transfers you could be on, which are temporary and where you might have to go back into the labour market. So I fully acknowledge that the fact that you regulate your pension by less than you would otherwise, because we are just taking a mine off to the pot, makes the individual pensioner everything else equal, I think it is called with a terrible expression that gets less than you would otherwise have got. It is a political issue. I acknowledge this and would like to be a part of the discussion. I am not sure that the wise reply will be that all this will be blown up insofar as it may also affect other beneficiaries of the transfer, but it can be said that, as far as the economy is concerned, it is true that if there had not been a rate regulation such as the one we know, the basic amount of the pension would have increased by more than what has happened. That is the problem, of course, and one has to discuss it, and it is basically about whether you can find some money to regulate the economy in one way or another. It is the policy that is crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135759	I am glad that this is probably also going to the Minister for Finance so that he can hear that there is at least goodwill in that we are debating this here in the Ministry of Finance. I look forward to it. The last thing I would like to remind the Prime Minister of now, when we are engaged in the good exchange of memories, is the opening debate, in which we jointly adopted a proposal for adoption, as it says, that this autumn we are making agreements that ensure that the temporary nature of foreign policy is also temporary, that is, the paradigm shift, that when you come to Denmark and get asylum, family reunification, etc., you are being helped temporarily until you can return. It says that we will have to deal with this in the autumn, and I just want to say to the Prime Minister now that, compared to my calendar, even though the climate change and something like that can create a little scam in it is 17 days, 10 hours and 2 minutes, the autumn has passed. So we have 17 days, 10 hours and 2 minutes to solve this with temporaryness being temporary. So if the Prime Minister would just take the trouble to push a little to the Minister of Finance in that respect, so that we can get it in place here in the negotiations we are holding over in the Ministry of Finance, I would be very pleased.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113135917	I would be even more pleased if we could get it in place before the 17 days and 10 hours have passed, because then we are, I can figure out, right on 1 December. Of course, it is possible to make a financial agreement over there too, as we saw last year, but I would be delighted if things could be put in place in such a way that we could also make proper legal arrangements afterwards. But more seriously: the problem is known and well defined, and I am basically in agreement with this, which we also spent some time talking about during the opening debate about that we have to get ready and remind each other and also those who come, that there is a difference between coming here as a fugitive and then coming here because you may have married a Dane in order to spend your life permanently here with the aim of becoming Danish. Refugees are per year. definition something temporary. It is desirable that it be because the desirable thing is that peace or what one has fled from should fall into place, and then return home, and that perspective must be there. It is not clear enough when we see over a generation that nine out of ten of those who come as asylum seekers and get refugee status end up here permanently. It's so easier to see the problem than to solve it, but we have to do our best. After all, the dialogue is also under way, and I would also like to send out the signal here that we must achieve this by 1 December, and very much so by 1 December 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140054	Thank you. The next is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140104	The Prime Minister concluded his preliminary remark by saying • I think if I got it right down • that in Denmark we must be known by treating people with proper and respect. I think that was a very good thing, because it is in fact a continuation of what I would like to talk about, namely how we treat people affected by homelessness. The number of homeless people in Denmark has grown and grown, and we have 6,600 people in Denmark who live without a home, without a home, and these are people who lack security, warmth, security, and that is a group of people who, for the most part, also have many other big, heavy problems to deal with in addition to homelessness. They didn't choose it. They have not chosen what has led to homelessness, they have not chosen the debt or divorce they have been through, or the abuse or mental problems. They can't just take a job, they can't just get a home. They can do a lot, but they need a hand. Nevertheless, the government has introduced legislation that not only makes it harder to be homeless, like cash aid reforms and the like, but also makes it really criminal to live as a homeless person in Denmark. It now gives 14 days in jail to beg if you do so near a train station or a supermarket. 14 days in jail for begging with, for example, a small plastic cup! And it is a fine and a ban on residence if you sleep in what is called an insecure camp. When this legislation was introduced, the warnings were many, and now we see the right consequences. Andre e.g. slept on the street with a couple of friends at Strøget in Copenhagen. This is often done for security reasons when you are homeless. He has been banned from residence in the City of Copenhagen for 3 months and a fine of 1,000 DKK. Same thing happened to Morten. Prison has been given in 14 days to sit quietly in front of a supermarket with a white plastic cup next to it. So my question is, was that supposed to happen? Should it be criminal to be homeless, and should one punish oneself out of homelessness?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140328	Thank you. It is true that we must not beg as such. You can sell House Past, for example, and it is one of the very good things that has happened to detaboo homelessness and also create an economic basis for these people. It is also in this light that we in the government decided to create, with the social free pass, the opportunity for people who do not live their lives carefully or have all the papers in order, to do a job and pay for it without being cut into pensions and other things. But there is a reason why we have made the rules as they are, and sometimes in politics it is the way that you look at some effect, and then you are offended by it. May I remind you that when we made these rules on banning insecure begging and camping, it was in the summer of 2017 when our metropolitan area, as has been seen around Europe, became the subject of an influx of people, among other things. with Roma background, which marked our entire city image and created insecurity. We took care of that, and it has worked, as it were. If you recall the summer of 2018, which was even warmer and better and everything than it in 2017, then you have to say that we managed to deal with the problem that the rules were aiming at. Furthermore, we are living in a society where there are some principles of equality, and I am not in a position to join a rule in which I say that you must not come from Romania or somewhere else and sit and beg at train stations, but if you have a red-bellied passport, then you can. It can't work like that. It must therefore be said quite frankly that there are some Danish homeless people who have had to pay a price in our acquis or have been affected by the fact that we were faced with a completely different, much larger problem, which we have then also dealt with. That is the honest answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140548	In fact, I think it is a little bit difficult to know what to say about the Prime Minister apparently wishing that one could have discriminated if I had to understand what the Prime Minister is saying. This does not change the fact that, regardless of what the charge has been, the consequences are that it has become de facto criminal to be homeless in Denmark. There are approx. 6,600 homeless in Denmark. There are shelters for about a third of them. So what should the last ones do when there aren't enough shelters, but it's not okay to sleep on the street either, or not alone, because then you are also an insecure camp, or at least can be, and certainly not with your friends? Then it is really criminal to be homeless. If you can't stick your hand out for a five for a cup of coffee, it's really criminal to be homeless. Our legal rapporteur asked the Minister for Justice: what do the police say to the people who sleep on the streets that they should do? The Minister of Justice replied that the police refer them to shelter, which there are not enough seats in, or hostel or hotel. Is it also the PM's answer to the homeless who have no place to sleep that they can go to a hotel? Or what are they supposed to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140714	Yes, of course it has consequences when you make legislation. It also has consequences if you roll it back. So let's re-establish the rules we had; let's get some Roma camps down in the middle of the square in Copenhagen with garbage and insecurity and thefts and something like that, just like we had in summer 2017, let's have a party! I don't want to be a part of that. That is why we have made a set of rules quite responsibly, and it is not a set of rules aimed at criminalising the homeless. And that is drawing things too hard to say that the police are taking action in any situation where you go to sleep on the street. That is not in line with the way it is done. Well, I know the town too. I walk around in it myself. And with discrimination, you can just hit it like that, but frankly, is it Enhedslisten's ambition that we should roll that rulebook right back where it was, and that if we get what we saw in 2017 to repeat itself, that is, with camps in our parks, real camps, we should just have it? Something else, then, is that there is a serious social problem and a huge task for the municipalities...
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140833	No, it has to wait until the next answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113140837	It was not the case that before a minimum sentence of 14 days was introduced to beg, or before it was said that insecurity-building camps, which also apply to a few people sleeping together on Strøgetet, a single man has also been convicted of being an insecure camp, when he slept alone, you could do nothing, and then everyone could just settle down in the middle of Strøget and start stealing away. That reality didn't exist. Of course you have to do something, you just have to do the right thing. And the reality is that there are now people who are being fined and banned throughout the City of Copenhagen, where they sell House Over and where they have their friends because they have slept at Strøget. That is the reality; it is the reality to which the Prime Minister must relate. You can't punish yourself out of homelessness or poverty, and it's no use paying fines... you don't get less homeless by a $1,000 fine. Of course we have to do something about homelessness: shelters, transit rooms for foreign homeless people, so you can help them home, decent housing, a cash aid to live on. But the Prime Minister must have an answer to the homeless now, who cannot stay in the City of Copenhagen. What are they gonna do? It can be nothing. It can easily be the PM's answer. The Prime Minister's answer may also be: More cheap housing or more shelters or the abolition of the camping law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141000	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141002	You have to do the right thing, you have to say it, and then there is no answer to it. I mean, I stand by the rules we have set up and it is no good standing up and shaking my head, because I am the one talking, and I cannot hear the shaking of my head; and that is a compliment. We have made the rules we have made to solve a real problem that was there. And it may well be that you don't want to acknowledge it and, like, you'll pretend that now we can roll the rules backwards without the risk that the problems that were massive will come back • you can just go out and talk to the Copenhageners about how they experienced the summer 2017. And that is a real problem we have been trying to solve. Is there a secondary effect for some Danish homeless people? Yeah, I guess so. It should then just be an incentive to take further action to do something for the homeless. It is, of course, primarily a task for the municipalities to develop the services needed to get the homeless off the streets, with crooked homes, with heating rooms and with other things. When you say crime and to sell House Over in the same sentence, it is at least up to the reality, namely that you can sell House Past then, I know you have to sell House Past everywhere, also at Nørreport and Østerport and elsewhere. But we don't want insecurity-building begging. And I do not want a Copenhagen similar to what I see when I walk in a number of other European cities. I've last tried it on the weekends in a couple of places where every corner of the street is begged. I don't want a Copenhagen like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141146	Thank you. The question is closed. Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk for the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141156	Thank you. Now we really have had a fairly entertaining debate, not least after we were told who was the Prime Minister's best friend; then it is just that all the alarms go off. How much friends we're with each other in here, I don't have to judge, but I can at least say one thing, and that's that we humans aren't very good friends with many of the fellow creatures that we live on the planet with. So my questions, at least the first two, will be about biodiversity and what we are doing in terms of biodiversity loss. It is a subject which for many is guaranteed to be both a little distant and a little abstract, but it is by no means. Only this week, the UN's director of biodiversity, Cristiana Pașca Palmer, spoke to The Guardian. Among other things, she said.: I hope that we will not become the first species to document our own destruction. So what I would like to ask the Prime Minister is what the government is doing in terms of thinking about preventing the loss of biodiversity. of species and plants that die out, from large animals to insects. Just to give two examples of this, I can mention that 75%. of all flying insects in Germany have disappeared over the last 25 years and the number of wild animals has been reduced to half since 1970. So it is a massive loss of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141348	Thank you. And that's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141350	Well, I'm thinking more. In other words, one idea is international, and it is the whole debate on climate change and change and sustainability that needs to be lifted with greater international strength. It is also in this light that we ourselves have taken Danish initiatives and offered to the UN Secretary-General to try to create a network of financing instruments to draw that conversion, and that is why we made P4G etc.; there is an international dimension. Then, of course, there is also a domestic dimension, and that is among other things. the reason why this government has had higher ambitions than any previous government in Denmark has had about untouched forest. That is also why, on a sad background, namely the drought, in the drought package that has been made, we also have a perspective on land distribution, which can therefore ideally also result in the land being taken out over time with the poor part of the skin, bringing together agricultural land more operationally and leaving other land to lie. Well, that's one of them. the way we should go. With what we're doing and I can't remember hectares and all the numbers in my head, not down here at all, because if you say the wrong thing, you have deceived the Folketing, and I have no ambition of that we have lifted the county in terms of untouched forest quite, quite dramatically compared to what we've seen before. And it is a contribution directly into promoting more diversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141530	I am not here to examine the Prime Minister in percentages, i.e. how much we distribute as untouched forests of our state forests, but it is just to emphasise that we have signed the UN agreement that we must stop the loss of biodiversity by 2020. That is why it is absolutely vital for all of us to live up to that signature. Denmark is one of the most cultivated countries at all. We are also one of the countries with the largest climate footprint per year. We continue to use poisons and pesticides to push the wildlife and plant life of nature. In order to come up with a concrete proposal on what, among other things, we are proposing. We could do so, and we could put out real natural zones. In the alternative, we came up with a big initiative in 2016, where we said that we would like to post up to 20%. of our area for natural zones. So my question to the Prime Minister is: is this an ambition in which the government can see itself? And if so, how can we take the first step?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141648	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141652	I can easily see the government pursuing a path in which we promote more genuine nature, and I also believe that we are on that track by being more precise in how we define Natura 2000 sites, by prioritising untouched forests and by having a slightly sharper look at which parts of our soils we grow intensively and which we do not. All of this has to be balanced up against a lot of other things, and you have to talk about that. It is not certain that we will put our weights exactly the same in those scales in relation to how we also ensure that there is production, rational forestry and rational farming. Because we have actually compared with the world out there • an agriculture that produces with a lighter and lighter CO2 This perspective is also there when we talk CO2 We can of course choose to shut down all Danish farmland, and then we can move the production out of the country to conditions that are worse for the global environment than is the case here, so it has to be balanced. But that is what we have negotiations for finance negotiations and other negotiations and we are happy to participate in that dialogue, also forward-looking, with the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141831	So, CO2 Because it is true that we have to do everything possible to curb CO2 A rich biodiversity is the whole prerequisite for our having life at all and it is falling completely directly. I mean, it's really bad in Denmark. And a start could be, for example. to interpret our state forests into truly untouched forests. It would be a quick and good starting point if it were up to the alternative. But the last question comes from our Members, and now I have to do it quickly. Following on from what Mrs Mette Frederiksen also mentioned, namely the fraud in dividend taxes, money laundering cases, etc. I am not going to repeat all the good arguments put forward by Mette Frederiksen here, among others. a proposal for community representatives in the banks, which was a fantastic good proposal, could the Prime Minister consider splitting up the banks so that the financial and banking sector is divided into two separate sectors, i.e. a sector with ordinary commercial banks, and a sector with other financial institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113141959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142001	May I say something about public representatives, because I never answered Mrs Mette Frederiksen that it sounds good, and if you study history then you will see that we have also had other bank scandals and major crises in the financial sector. And that is why we have to ask ourselves in practical terms: is that precisely what guarantees that we choose social representatives? Or is it something of a bit of symbolism where, in fact, you better achieve your results by tighter supervision or by some other structural changes? It is certainly a discussion that I think should be taken with some thoroughness. May I not say to the idea of dividing up the banks that I do not imagine that we are running with special Danish rules on how to structure the financial sector? I think we get off badly with that. In the economy in which we live, and with a Europe and an internal market, where I have, as it were, raised a debate about whether we should be part of the banking union, I do not think that this is the way forward that we are setting the Danish banking sector according to a completely different set of rules from what we see in comparable countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142119	The question is closed. Here you go, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142125	Thank you, President. Yeah, I'm the last one, and I'd like to help the PM. I would actually like to follow on from Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk talks about the banks, because, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen said earlier, there is no doubt that the scandals that have been queued up recently in the banking and financial sector have actually shocked the Danes and us politicians on a large scale. Laundry, advice on tax havens, tax optimisation, yes, the list is unfortunately very long, and many of these examples of activities do not create any value for society, rather the opposite. Today, a number of banks are so big that they are actually too big to fail. This means that taxpayers will be stuck on the tab if the so-called SIFIs, as these banks are also called, have financial problems, but also that these banks can actually finance themselves cheaper than other banks because of the indirect bank guarantee provided by the State. The Think Tank Kraka has previously calculated that value at 10-17 billion. kr. annual for the four largest Danish SIFIs. It is the state that finances the feast here through an increased premium on the sovereign debt. It is very important for Danish society how the banking and financial sector behaves, and this is where we politicians have a role to play, namely through regulation and the establishment of rules of the game that work for the benefit of the community and not just the few. Despite these many scandals, it did not fill anything in the Prime Minister's opening speech in the Folketing this year. Perhaps this is because the Prime Minister's focus is quite different, because in the government base back in November 2016, you can read the following: "The government will initiate a review of the financial regulation in order to determine whether there is a reasonable balance between the administrative burdens and the socio-economic gains. ▪ And in March 2017, after the first stories about money laundering scandals, the then business minister, Brian Mikkelsen, insisted that the bullying of the banks should stop, and said at that time directly on TV 2, and I quote: We have come with lots of regulation. We've patched them up with regulation. There has been a lot of water running in the stream since then, of course, and it must also speak for the Prime Minister's defence. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister where the Prime Minister stands today. Does the Prime Minister think that there is a need for less regulation of the banking and financial sector, as stated in the government base? Or does the Prime Minister, like the SF, think that there is such a need for yes, in Brian Mikkelsen's words to bully the banks and patch them up with regulation, so that they serve the interests of society and not they get interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142412	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142414	I stand here and feel totally abandoned by a sector that has not behaved properly as in total failure. I myself have been involved in negotiating bank packages on top of the economic crisis, which, of course, in the interests of society, but also, indeed, for the best of the banks, held my hand during all this. That is why it is a failure that we then experience what we have seen, and it calls for action on an enlightened basis. There is, after all, one dimension which is about whether it is the rules that are not good enough or whether it is people who have not complied with the rules, so that is quite fundamental. Because if something has happened that could not happen, it must be pursued and work has been set in motion. Then there are the substantive rules of this kind, that is to say, what is required and the procedural, that is to say, what supervision there is, and we have to look at everything, and the government is prepared to do so too. I feel, as someone who basically believes in the market economy and the free market, that the deception is greater towards me, because I can tell from the whole mood that it is much easier for the chairman of the Social Democratic Party and probably also for the chairman of the SF to say: we are outraged and then people think that they are probably, and when we say that, people are wondering whether we are or what. I'm outraged! And that is why the Minister of Business has also acted on the level of fines, and the government has signalled full readiness to talk about this here when we have the enlightened basis. It may well be that more regulation is needed. It may well be that we need stricter supervision, both with resources and with the whole setup. It may well be, and I think that from a European perspective too, we need Denmark to get more involved in the whole question of how we deal with the European banking sector. There are a lot of things, but I also think it is wise to shake your head and do so wisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142628	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142629	SF is fully committed to using thoughtfulness in these matters, because there is no reason to make further gaps or to create further problems for itself. After all, we also supported the September agreement with increased penalties. There should be no doubt about that. What I am concerned with is that we are moving forward, that we have both a discussion on the role of the FSA and a strengthening of the FSA, and that we are discussing what may be needed for further regulation. SF has called the Prime Minister in consultation, and since the Prime Minister will not come into consultation on this, I choose to put the question down in the Parliamentary Chamber, because it is always an option, because we think that regulatory mechanisms are needed. After all, the EU has tightened up Danish legislation on several occasions, including: when it came to the proposal that banks should not advise on the purchase of their own shares... and I think Roskilde Bank's customers would have been happy if it had come a little before the end of the year and there might be further tightening of the regulation. I am glad that the Prime Minister says that he is actually willing to look at it, but what are we talking about over time? If it is to be included in the Finance Act, I think, in the Prime Minister's debate with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl earlier that it's on the stairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142743	Now I just have to say something. The fact that I did not see it in consultation and answer some questions that lie in the area of the Ministry of Industry does not mean that I am not interested. I myself have also tried to be an opposition politician, fortunately not for so long, but yet, so I know that there is always the thing about the Prime Minister having to sit down and do something like that. I just have to say that if we were to develop a system in which the Prime Minister would always sit at the top of the table every time we had a serious social concern, the tabled would be worn blank. I feel quite comfortable with the fact that this responsibility lies with the Ministry of Industry, and I think that the Minister for Business is doing a good job and has acted and has also reached out to the conciliation circle and is in continuous dialogue with them and would like to continue, but, as I said, there must be a basis. Does this mean that it should be in place with the financial agreement that has a deadline, I had to understand, in 17 days and some number of hours? Not necessarily. But I can reassure the questioner that we do not have the habit of making financial agreements where we have then spent the last penny that can be advanced, and then the government has no freedom of movement until we hit December next year and have to make a new financial agreement. It is possible that such a system has been operated under a government in which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has been a member, I do not know, but we will not do so. So, even if we do not have the conclusion of these negotiations before the budget agreement comes into effect, it is not an expression of having to go and wait a year before they can be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142916	Then that's the last question in this Question Time, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113142918	I really think that this matter is a little too serious for such a polemic about it. I have no need to exhibit what the government has done, I need us to look forward, and when the Prime Minister says that he cannot come in one, the other and the third conciliation, because then the table end is too worn out, we are not talking about any conciliation. We're talking about consultation about Danske Bank and the biggest money laundering scandal ever.I don't think it's just a problem for Danske Bank, I think it's a problem for the whole of Denmark that Danske Bank has behaved like this, and when the Americans seriously threaten Denmark that in future we can't trade in dollars, it's quite serious. That's why I think the Prime Minister should be on the field. And there it might be nice to hear it may well be that the Prime Minister will not roll out the package if the Prime Minister will do a more robust supervision. Will the Prime Minister help to take on board some of the European rules proposed in the Banking Union? I do want us to be a member, SF wants us to be a member of the Banking Union, but it will be a little difficult to get all parties in here just for the time being, but will the Prime Minister help roll out some of the elements that lie in keeping an eye on the banks, so that we get more robust governance with Danish banks?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143035	Thank you. The last answer from the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143038	I don't do any controversy at all. I actually leave that to others. If you want to draw some picture that the only way I can keep up with this is by showing up in some kind of consultation, you're drawing a picture that goes against the reality you know. We have been following this case very closely throughout, because I fully share the analysis that what we saw with the money laundering scandal is not only a Danske Bank problem, it could also be a Denmark problem, depending on how international players would respond to it. So it is of great concern to me by its very nature. Various things have been put in place, and on that basis the Minister for Industry will continue the dialogue on how to act on this in the conciliation circle. The Minister for Business and Industry has among other things: asked in the Danish FSA to get a kick in there, and there are also the other cases that uncover the course of events. In this way, we have an open approach, and it may well be that more regulation is needed. I personally believe that there is also a need for a stronger European commitment and that Denmark is actively engaged in it, because when we speak SIFI institutions, it is true that Danske Bank is a very, very large bank in a Danish economic context, but it becomes a little smaller if you see it in a European context, and therefore it is relevant to ask what is ultimately the right supervisory authority with a bank like this. Is it a Danish Financial Supervision alone and isolated, or would we stand stronger by being a member of the Banking Union? That work has also been set in motion, and I believe that the questioner and I have a common approach to that. But it is also too early to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143238	Thank you to the Prime Minister and thank you to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143244	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 92 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Increase of Gifts of Honor. Bill No. L 93 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, etc.) Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-35 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a trawl ban and a ban on mussel fishing with scraping gear in Lillebælt). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 36 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting all public servants from wearing religious headgear at work) and motion for a resolution No. B 37 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the future inventory of the number of immigrants and descendants). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 38 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Danish procurement rules for companies in tax havens) and motion for a resolution No. B 39 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the EU procurement rules for tax havens). Lotte Rod (RV) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV): Request no. F 21 (About a harmful performance culture in the education system). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). The Committee on Defence and Defence Policy has presented: Report on the export of dual use equipment to countries which seriously violate human rights. 3). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143412	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143449	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 9 by Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Anni Matthiesen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 51 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 9 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 8 by Jacob Mark (SF), Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S), Rosa Lund (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Lotte Rod (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143610	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 12 by Karina Due (DF), Hans Andersen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Erik Lund (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 55 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 46 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 12 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 10 by Finn Sørensen (EL) and Torsten Gejl (ALT), proposal for adoption No. V 11 by Mr Leif Lahn Jensen (S) and motion for a resolution (Doc. V 13 of Karsten Hønge (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143725	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 15 by Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Hans Andersen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Erik Lund (KF), and voting is possible. That concludes voting time. In favour 63 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), against 36 (DF, EL and ALT), abstentions 4 (SF). Proposal for adoption No V 15 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 14 of Finn Sørensen (EL), Karina Due (DF) and Torsten Gejl (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143837	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 7 by Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), Bertel Haarder (V), Leif Mikkelsen (LA) and Merete Scheelsbeck (KF), and voting is possible. That concludes voting time. In favour of voting 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 7 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 6 by Jacob Mark (SF), Mogens Jensen (S), Christian Juhl (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Marianne Jelved (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113143956	Does anyone wish to speak? If that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113144006	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? I consider these to be adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113144040	Does anyone wish to speak? As this does not seem to be the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113144047	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-8, elected by a majority of the Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten? That does not seem to be the case, and I therefore consider it adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If there is no objection to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113144125	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That does not seem to be the case, and I therefore consider the debate to be closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113144202	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I see the tax minister stand up, but it wasn't because he wanted the floor? Good. Since no one wishes to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113144318	The debate is open. The first rapporteur to be asked to come closer is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113144335	In the context of the establishment of a new tax system, or at least there is a need for it, there is also the need for the aggregation of certain outstanding amounts to be recovered. The aim of this draft law is precisely to provide more opportunities for the collection of too much aid paid out in the form of State aid for training and, moreover, Statens Adult Training Aid (Svu). The draft law provides for additional powers to merge several repayment claims with a single date of formation and maturity. All of this, I hope, will be of use to a new recovery system in the tax administration. In addition, the amount of the free allowance for students in the course of the transport service is changed so that students do not get caught up in excess of the amount of the allowance paid to them during their internship period. So social democracy basically backs the proposal. We believe it is vital that changes are made on the basis that we can and do actually get our hands on the recovery procedure. We already have far too many cases today in which too much money or student loans, su loans, are not repaid or not recovered in good time. We simply need to focus on this issue and preferably in a way so that we can simplify the processes so that, of course, there is no lack of legal basis or formalities for it to take place. Having said that, I should simply like to point out here that, in the light of the consultation which has taken place on the proposal, we found that students were concerned that a refund should be made after the first date of collection. It's out in ordinary life kind of mystic to do it. This means, of course, that the student must be able to pay back more money than may have been assumed if more calls are being made. It is, of course, important for us in the Social Democratic Party that we do not push the students out any further economically than what is good, why we like ourselves. Danish Students' Joint Council also we suggest that reasonable methods of reimbursement can still be made with the individual student. However, I have noted that the Ministry has no legal intention of reducing something, or rather putting the students differently from what they have been asked to do today. This is positive, but it is just necessary to mention it here so that we should not forget it. To this end, it is also important that the new recovery system under the Ministry of Taxation should be able to collect the non-reimbursements in the first place, particularly in view of the many bad cases which have been about failed recovery in the tax department's systems. I am well aware that the legislative proposal here has to establish the legal basis for recovery, but nevertheless I just have to mention here too that the legislative proposal only applies to recoveries relating to payments of aid from 2019 onwards. It is a new recovery system and, alongside this recovery system, we must then have the existing recovery system, which so far has not been very successful. In addition, the recovery authority, which handles recovery claims for aid paid before 1 January 2019, must, of course, take place in the previous recovery system, which, as you know, does not work, at least not as intended. And it has to be that you have two parallel systems until they can be converted. I know that it is not the minister's area of responsibility, but nevertheless it only worries the Social Democratic Party that we are now standing here and giving the authority to something that in principle sounds very good. We also support this draft law here, but you just have a resort area, the Treasury, where there are some recovery systems that do not work at all. In principle, this may be just something that can be put in the drawer until it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113144809	It seems so clear that no one wants to speak. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113144826	I like common sense and it was nice that there were legislative proposals last week that were about common sense. I think there's something here again. This bill allows for the aggregation of multiple claims into one. This means that if you have to pay back sugar for several months within one calendar year, you can add it to one claim. When you dig into it, you can see that it is actually a legalisation of the practice that is already there today. It has to be said that it is common sense that when it comes to doing so, an overall statement of what may have to be recovered can be made instead of possibly 12 statements, so that a student can have an overall overview of what is to be reimbursed. I would also like to say that I fully support Mrs Mette Reissmann's comment on the challenges that we know there are in terms of recovering the Su-debt, both domestic and foreign, not least from abroad. It is not because the bill is about it, but I would also like to say from here that we are very much in favour of getting that part under control so that we can get that money in the box. We're not supposed to just give money away like that. But this bill is quite fine on that point. In addition, the aim of the draft law is to allow students in training for transport officers to be granted the highest free amount during paid internships. It is a new education which consists of first 3 months of theory in su and then two periods paid, of 9 and 12 months respectively. And the salary during the internship period has been agreed and is above the middle free amount, and it is common sense to say that now we are giving the opportunity to use the highest free amount so that no systematic refund is made. So overall, Dansk Folkeparti supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145011	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145019	Thank you for that, President. It's like you know, L 88, we're dealing with today. It is a draft law which aims to create the necessary legal basis to be able to combine several claims for repayment in the event of incorrect payment. I do not think it is appropriate to repeat what the draft law contains in its entirety, but I would just like to say, of course, that the Left will vote in favour of the proposal. And I'd like to say hello to the Conservatives and inform them that they are doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145051	We thank the rapporteur. And there are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145059	Thank you. I'll be brief. I agree with the purpose and content of the draft law, which makes it possible to bring together recovery claims for su. The bill corrects an error and the Ministry now proposes to insert a provision that legalises their current practice. And I must say that I also appreciate the fact that in future the Ministry intends to have a legal basis for its management activities. And then I think it is very reasonable that our future transport officers should not be placed in a situation where their free amounts will always be exceeded. So Enhedslisten can back up the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145140	It also did not trigger requests for short remarks. Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145149	Thank you. Well, I'm not gonna waste this House's time unnecessarily either. What the draft law is about has already been explained, so I shall not repeat that. I would just like to mention that I really think it is a good thing that we have something here that does not have a legal basis, which works very well. And instead of insisting that heavier and more bureaucratic administration should be administered, a legal basis is now being provided for a sensible administration. I also agree, of course, that it is good that conditions for transport officers are now being fixed. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145235	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145243	I will also be brief, and I would like to say that in the alternative we are in favour of common sense, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said. We are in complete agreement on this point, so that is why we also think it is common sense to say yes to this, as it is the legalisation of a current practice which would not bring about any change but would actually make it easier. And it was also good to hear that Mrs Mette Reissmann went through the point in a hearing from Danish students that there should be no deterioration in relation to the deadline. And also the second point, that is to say, we have this newly created training, and of course we have to take into account the reality of it. So I would just like to say briefly that we are in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145349	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145357	Thank you. We also think it is a very good idea for there to be a legal basis for exercising the luckily simple practice of recovering together. This is a sensible thing in the Su and Svu areas, as are the transport officers, so that they do not have to pay back the su from training courses. This is all sensible. I would like to add to this the comment made by both the rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, if it can help the process to slip, to look at the real, major problem of recovery, namely the debt of the economy, which is very large from Danes abroad and to a somewhat lesser extent from foreigners. Those funds could really be used to invest heavily in education if we could have a recovery system that worked in that area. I'd use my strength to do that, Minister, if we had to use our strength to do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145506	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur at this stage is Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145514	In the SF, we support the government's bill. We think it is a good idea to increase the amount of the free allowance during paid internship on the training to the transport officer. We also think it is good that we should be allowed to combine claims for repayment, as is already the practice today. The students express some concern in the consultation answers about the practice, and I really think that, as was said earlier, it might be exciting to learn more about how things are really going with the way they work today. The students are concerned about whether there is a legal basis for the practice that already exists, and then the natural thing would be to find out how things are going, so I think it might be interesting to investigate. However, the draft law as it stands seems to us to be sensible, and in the SF we are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145608	We thank the rapporteur. This brings us through the rapporteur's line and has to go over to the Minister's. So I give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145626	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for a good debate and thank you for your support. With one part of this bill, we want to give the possibility that more claims for reimbursement of the State's adult education aid, Svu, can be added together and recovered as a total refund claim. So far, this has been the administrative practice, as several people have said, and that is what we are now providing for there is a clear legal basis for. The possibility of combining several claims is both for the benefit of the beneficiaries and for the administrative handling of the refund requirements. For beneficiaries, aggregate claims mean that they must, as a general rule, only pay instalments and fees on one claim at a time, rather than on several individual claims at the same time. At the same time, it gives beneficiaries a better overview of the debt when they do not have to deal with several individual claims at the same time. Finally, it gives a less heavy administration than if each claim had to be raised and claimed to be repaid separately. With the second part of the bill, the Government wishes to allow transport officers in training to be granted the highest free amount during the period of paid internship. Thank you for your comments, I just have a few comments to make. The quite superior here is that the students will not see any change. They still see it as such relatively simple out there, and that is also what the DSF points out in the hearing answer, because it should not be the case that it suddenly gets harder for them. We have done a lot to make it even easier, among other things. to see if we can't get the repayment rate up, for example. You can now pay with your credit card instead of putting in fixed payment agreements. We must continue to do this. This is more on the backend of this and the administrative, so the students shouldn't feel anything. To Mr. Jacob Mark: I would like to ensure that, in the course of the committee's examination of this, the committee gives a status on how it is going to make it easy for students to repay too much of the money received.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145821	Nor did it give rise to any comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. On the basis of the noisy silence, I note that it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145858	The debate is open. Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113145905	Thank you. The bill follows up on the government's research and innovation policy strategy... Denmark... ready for the future... There is a goal that Danish research should be of the highest international quality. Danish researchers and universities must be among the best in the world. This is of course very important if Danish research institutions are to be able to continue to attract both the best researchers and more research funds, and if the research institutions are also to be attractive partners internationally. It is also an important prerequisite for ensuring that research does the most and best good in society. With the establishment and financing of centers of excellence, the Danish National Research Foundation plays a key role in supporting elite research environments and top researchers with the best and most ambitious ideas across the research areas. See, that introduction is probably hard to disagree with. I think, when I look at the House here, that we can all share that ambition. The social democracy supports one hundred percent that Denmark must be among the very best in those areas where we can already reap very large gains. Of course, we also believe that in the future Denmark should be a research nation in the absolute world elite and reap recognition of the elite research environments. This bill also helps to create the framework for the establishment and financing of research units, which will focus on transformative research and scientific breakthroughs, and which will compete with the absolute world-selite when we speak research. The new research units will be able to be established and financed in cooperation with other public and private councils, foundations or companies, and the terms of the grant will be determined by the Board of Directors of the Danish National Research Foundation or in cooperation with any co-financing parties, which is excellent. The proposal also increases the Danmarks Grundforskningsfond's annual distribution framework from approx. 460 million kr. ed 470 million kr., so that funds can be distributed for the establishment of the new research units while continuing the current activities, including centers of excellence, which is incredibly important. As has just been pointed out in the consultation reply, the activities under way must not be impaired because of the creation of the new instruments. After all, the draft law intends very much to translate what the government calls their Nobel Prize Initiative. Here I would just say that it is difficult to predict where and when and how such a Nobel Prize can be within reach. Many times it is the case that it actually occurs in quite different environments than a specific Nobel Prize environment like this. Nor is there real evidence that large amounts of funding lead to a proportional increase in research yields than smaller amounts of funding. But now, leave it alone. For there are, of course, in addition to just two points in the draft law which call for our attention. There is an expectation that private funds will cofinance a substantial proportion of the new entities. However, it is still unknown whether there is an agreement on final cofinancing, and this naturally also raises a question as to what significance it will have for the Danish National Research Fund if a firm agreement on financing with private funds is not put in place. What's up? Something else is that the universities currently. suffers from the government's 2-percent savings, the re-prioritisation contribution. There is a imbalance between basic funds and external funds used for research, and the Social Democrats are very, very concerned about it. Today, basic funds are under intense pressure, and they will be under even greater pressure to implement this initiative. It is therefore also crucial for the success of the initiative that the indirect costs of the initiative are fully financed. Otherwise, as President of the University of Copenhagen writes in his hearing answer, you can win yourself to death. But I look forward to discussing further in committee with my good political colleagues how this can actually succeed, so that Denmark can continue to be a research nation at the very highest level. With those comments, the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113150351	It did not trigger any desire for short remarks. We thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113150405	Thank you. We need research from the highest carat in Denmark. I think everyone agrees on this, at least all of us who are discussing this bill today. I think we agree that research is important in order to lay the foundations for our future prosperity and for us to be able to maintain our welfare societies. I think we agree that there must be a balance between resources for basic research, free research and more strategically managed research so that the potential of the results of free research can be exploited. I think we agree and see the same big picture of where we want to go, and if that is true, I just miss the fact that we also create and set down the overall vision for this, so we have the image to navigate when we have to prioritize. We use it when we negotiate research reserves and end up in a balanced distribution of funds. We use it when negotiating grant reform. We use it every day, and we also use it today when we say that this bill is good and natural. Because when we have agreed on the research reserve that it is excellent to set aside more funds for excellent research, it is a natural consequence that that money must be distributed in the best possible way. And who would do better than the Danish National Research Foundation? So, of course, we in the Danish People's Party support this bill. Because it fits well into the big picture of where we're going. However, it would still be very sensible if we could maintain our pact from the Research Policy Summit at DTU on 3 October • the Pact to join forces in Loyal to Science and create a common vision and strategy for research and education. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113150545	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113150551	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. This bill is primarily about increasing the annual distribution framework of the Danish National Research Foundation by approx. 10 million kr. This will provide a framework for the establishment of research units with a particular focus on scientific breakthroughs and transformative research. That money thinks we're really well spent. The draft law also contains a few other points, such as requirements for the use of digital self-service, formal requirements for applications and other administrative considerations. I will not go into details with them, but simply say that we naturally support those parts of the proposal. The most important thing here is the desire to establish research units with a special focus on scientific breakthroughs and transformative research. We see this as an important link. That is why the Left supports the proposal and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they are doing the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113150649	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113150656	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten we also support the aim of the bill for flexibility and focus on excellent research environments. Perhaps it is also two things that are difficult to disagree with. However, we share the concern of Enhedslisten Danske Regionser and believe that it is important that there should continue to be room to support Danish basic research, which has difficulty in obtaining funding itself. After all, basic research is absolutely essential for us to move the research environments forward in Denmark. We also share the Copenhagen University's concern that we should not draw funds away from disciplines that are not expected to be at the Nobel Prize winner level. However, despite these concerns, we are very much in favour of the Bill in the Enhedslisten and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113150759	We would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113150808	Thank you for the floor. In Denmark, we do not sufficiently recognise and encourage talent and excellent research. What may be the reason for that is hard to say, but it may not be entirely by chance that we come from a country where it is Clumsy-Hans, there is a hero, and his two skilled and industrious brothers, there are some fools. It was the old way of thinking in Denmark, and it is probably the one that, to some extent, has propagated into our thinking today. That is why, of course, I would like to commend the Minister for now doing something for the Clumsy-Hans brothers by taking the initiative to prioritise so-called transformative research, that is, research, which has the potential to fundamentally change the field of research and the subject of research. Although the competition for Nobel prizes is tough and we haven't had anyone since 1997, and the one who got it today would probably have been fired before he got it, it might well be that it threw off a Nobel Prize anyway. I think it is positive that the centres will be set up in cooperation with private funds, so that we also recognise not only public research but also private research. It is perfectly natural that there is cooperation here. I hope, of course, that we will have much more of this in the future, but the draft law is very good and, of course, it is something we support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113150957	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113151002	Thank you. As has been mentioned by the other rapporteurs, the proposal is to create a framework for the Danish National Research Foundation to set up and finance research units that will have a special focus on transformative research and scientific breakthroughs. It's hard to be against having excellent research in Denmark, and that's why we're also positive about this bill. I have also noted in the hearings that it is noted that the new centres must be fully financed and that there is a need for it to be addressed in the draft law, as the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, that it is important to look at the funding of what is mentioned in the draft law. But we are certainly positive about L 89.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113151105	I would like to thank the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113151112	Thank you. We can also support this bill in the Radical Left. I think it is wise for the government and the minister to have called it pioneer centers and a gamble and that one has gone away from the misleading Nobelitel. We all know that this is not something that can be controlled politically, on the contrary. What I am concerned about is that the Foundation has a strong political mandate behind it, a strong support to do its job, and it will then have the opportunity to make an extra effort on it now with this effort, which I think is all very well for itself. What is important, after all, is that we filled up the Fundamental Research Fund; that is absolutely crucial, otherwise it would not be able to do this at all. During our reign we had a time, which was somewhat harder financially tense for us to have actually filled the foundation research fund with 2 billion so that it can do the work for which it is set in the world. The fundamental research centres are, of course, those that come later in the funnel, and that is why it is so crucial, as several rapporteurs also said, that the broad end of the funnel also has something to work with, otherwise there is nothing to drive excellence on and absolutely top talent later on. That is why it is so crucial for us in the Radical Left that there is money in the Danish Free Research Foundation that the basic funds at the universities exist, otherwise the very unique balance we have in Danish research is not possible. Then it tips, and then we don't get anybody down that end of the funnel where we want to grow the greatest talent that this bet is about. So we cannot do this if we do not also fill up the food chain, also on the public side. Now we have come a tiny step in that direction, but it is absolutely essential that more is done there in the years to come, otherwise this could be wasted. But, of course, we support the draft law at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113151336	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113151342	Thank you. Research makes us all richer, it makes our country richer, and research is infinitely important for our society. Results from research contribute to creating new and innovative solutions to the challenges we all have. It creates jobs, it makes us smarter, it helps us, and it's what's very important to the government and, as such, to the SF too, it makes us all richer and freer. Therefore, SF would also like to invest more in research, which is why the SF has also been so angry against the fact that research has been cut down so sharply during this period of government. We share the Government's objective that Danish research should be of international quality and the highest of the kind. That is why we also support this proposal to set up research units with a particular focus on transformative research and scientific breakthroughs. We also support an increase in the annual distribution framework for basic research. We think it is important that we strengthen our elite research environments if there is still room for research that is difficult to finance itself. Then I am comfortable with the fact that, unlike in many other areas, the government has realised that the establishment of new actions in this case research units will require more funding if the current activities are to continue at the same time. After all, we had a long debate on the re-prioritisation contribution last week, so I will not focus so much on it, but it really highlights the point that we also had there, namely that if you want to set something new in motion, if you have some ambition for an area, it costs, and then you cannot save at the same time. Fortunately, that's not the logic of this bill, so the SF supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113151537	Nor did it give rise to a desire for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113151546	Thank you, President. Thank you again for a good debate. Both the debate here and, in fact, the debate that we concluded about ten days ago on the research reserve have actually proved that, as Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl referred to about this pact... so Loyal to Science. I do not know whether we need to write it down, because I really think we have proved here a few times, even in today's debate, that that pact lives well among the rapporteurs who are in this Chamber today. The Danish National Research Foundation, as several have also mentioned, plays a key role in supporting these elite research environments, for which we all think we should do more. These are the best researchers with the most ambitious ideas across the research areas. And then to support that we can still be a research nation in the absolute world-selite, we would like to support it even more and strengthen the focus on it both for the present and for the future top researchers. This bill creates the framework for the Foundation to establish these new research units, those we call pioneer centres, and not, as Mrs Mette Reissmann said, Nobel Prize Centres. I think there is a former minister who has called it that, but the current minister has not done so. These pioneer centres must, of course, under the leadership of the extraordinary research leaders and top researchers, carry out basic research, and it is also a comment to Mrs Rosa Lund that this is basic research. So this is not a downgrade of basic research. We see this as a priority because the transformative is exactly what we do in basic research, and this has the potential to transform the field of research. We believe that this gives us an opportunity to have some research environments that are comparable to the world's best. That is a comment on Mr. Henrik Dahl says that yes, the competition is tough on the Nobel Prize that some may one day get, but this also shows that we still believe that even if we are a small country, we can do it, that is to say belong to the world elite and do it in world class. By increasing the distribution framework, we ensure, as several rapporteurs have also said, that the Fund will also be able to continue its existing work. This bill will then also give you a new opportunity to set up these centres in cooperation with, for example, private foundations. And a comment on Mrs Mette Reissmann: it is not a requirement of legislation that this should happen together with private funds. We have an expectation that this will happen. I've worked well with them in the process. We have a working group with them, so we think that's going to happen. Should it now turn out that this is not going to happen, then the principle is still gone, that this new initiative should not go beyond what they are doing, and then it will be the case that, within the framework we have given them with what we agreed in the research reserve, that is to say the 180 million. kr., would like to create one or two centres without the participation of private foundations. That's the way it's supposed to be. But we hope and have strong faith that it will happen. In addition, the proposal contains some other amendments to the law that do not arise specifically from the government's research strategy. It acts among other things. on the appointment of the Management Board and its periods and how it can become even easier to submit its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113151917	There is a request for a brief remark from one member of the research gang, Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113151923	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. But it just came in such a way that I have to ask more about the very thing about overhead, which is linked to research projects, i.e. how it is then financed. 'Cause there's time. I would like to point out in more general terms that there are projects which cannot be taken home, if I may say so, because at least universities do not have the means to finance the indirect costs, overhead. So what about the future pioneer centers? Will it be included in the funding, or will it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152006	For the funds coming from the Danmarks Grundforskningsfond, the principle is already such for centers of excellence, and we insist that there should be overhead contained in it with an overhead degree of 44 per cent. Therefore, we do not believe that the funds coming from the Fund will bind the basic research funds of universities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152023	Does Mrs Mette Reissmann wish to make another brief comment? We need to get the microphone ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152027	Does this also apply if private cofinancing is successful? Will the funds coming from there enjoy the same promotion in relation to the coverage of indirect costs slash overhead?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152044	That is what I would call a very good question. We have, of course, taken the initiative to set up this forum for research funding, where we, among others, have taken the initiative. We need to have this dialogue with the funds. For there are many people in the university world who say that when private funds come in, they are too low to pay, for example. This overhead. I find it difficult to imagine a situation in which the money we distribute through the Danish National Research Foundation had to pay overhead at 44 per cent, and so that some private funds should not. So I will take it into account in discussions with them, but that is the best answer I can give here today. But that's a good question, and I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152118	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152135	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152154	Thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing a proposal to abolish the restriction of dual education. With the agreement to limit dual education, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Government have given priority to finding funding for the Agreement on a safer daily allowance system. There was an outstanding financing requirement of 308 million. kr. annual. It was not an easy political choice, but it was the party's opinion that it was important to create security for the people who stood to lose the right to benefit. Based on the figures underlying the agreement on dual training, this means that approx. 1.000 people a year are expected to be limited in admission to higher education no. 2. We must compare that figure with the fact that 100,000 people are admitted to higher education every year when we count Master's degree programmes. The agreement on the limitation of dual education has not changed the student's ability to change his or her studies during the course of their studies. If a student does not think that he is on the right track in his or her education, it is only sensible to change his or her studies and the sooner, the better. It is too early to conclude whether more fall out or change study. The early indicators we have in the Ministry do not show an increased trend, but it is a development that we follow closely. At the same time, it is also important to emphasise that there are, and must remain, good opportunities for further education. The agreement has not changed the possibilities for continuing training, such as: diploma or Master's degree programmes. The agreement has not changed the possibilities of training to a higher level, for example. from professional bachelor to candidate, and the agreement does not include the possibility for professionals to seek higher education. The rule thus limits in my optics a smaller proportion. Yet it takes up a lot. I'm sorry. I can understand the young people who experience that they have got into a mess about their thinking about the future. It's a big decision to have to choose education. It is therefore also important that a great deal remains to be done to provide guidance and information for young people who have to make a choice about training. It is important that as many people as possible get on the right track the first time. We have and are doing a great deal of guidance. In 2015, the Education Zoom was launched. Educational zoom makes it easier than ever to compare different courses. The Ministry has just issued a nationwide survey to students and graduates in jobs. The results of the study make the educational zoom even better, and applicants receive valuable information for their study choices. Then there is the Educational Guide, which many young people know as ug.dk. They already know it from primary school, and in 2017 the UG had over 7 million visits. My ministry, together with the Ministry of Education, is mapping how the UG can be even better so that we can provide even better guidance. Finally, the government has launched a study of the strengths and weaknesses of the current admission system for higher education. The government wants us to have a recording system in the future that more supports a good match between education and the student's academic qualifications and motivation. I have therefore asked the Ministry to propose a new and improved recording system. It is my wish that we design a more flexible education system that is better suited to different wishes and to the time in which we live, not least for the sake of students. I think we can do that without abolishing the rules on the limitation of dual education. I fully recognise that it is a relevant political discussion how we prioritise the overall resources we have at our disposal. As always, the government would like to meet with the parties of the Danish Parliament and discuss the agreements that have been concluded. This also applies to the issue of dual education and the government has a constant focus on how we spend taxpayers' money in the best way possible. If there are good, sustainable proposals for alternative funding of the daily allowance agreement, we are also ready for a dialogue on this. The government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152621	There is a desire for a number of brief comments, first from Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152627	After all, I already know the Minister as a politician who is concerned with creating flexibility for students, and I really see this educational ceiling as totally out of date. I do not know whether the Minister remembers this, but the educational ceiling was actually adopted on the day when the Prime Minister was out to tell about the Council of Disruptions, with which the Minister has also worked, and where the Prime Minister said that the thing about taking an education and then having it for the rest of your life is a thing of the past. I mean, I also think that this educational ceiling is a thing of the past and that it comes to it. I have not had this discussion with the Minister before, so I would really like to start by asking about this: a kid named Emil, who will be a social worker and who works with it for a year, finds out that he wants to be a school teacher. We need talented schoolteachers, and Emil finds out he's passionate about teaching kids. Why should Emil not be able to go to school as a teacher?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152732	First of all, a general comment: I actually share what is referred to as the Prime Minister's statement, namely that one no longer comes into one education and then one takes it, between the ages of 20 and 25, and then comes out and has a very long working life, without ever training again. That is also why we have a number of other discussions on more flexibility. But when we look at the double-education rules, and when we look at the actual figures, very few people are restricted by it, compared to these 100,000 people who come in every year, and we still have away, and that's probably the thing that annoys me most about the discussion that you don't mean very many opportunities. Now I don't know it exactly for social workers, but you have, for example. In this context, it should be pointed out that there is a need for a better understanding of the situation in the Member States, and that this is a matter for the Member States. It's one way for Emil. Another way for Emil is to wait for the 6 years that are now deployed to soften it up a little, and then at a later stage, after perhaps having worked with the social worker education for 6 years and gained a lot of good experience from it, go in and start a bachelor education at a professional college.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152840	Sir. Jacob Mark for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152844	Why make all those stop blocks? Why close those doors that have to make it difficult so that the students themselves have to find strange ways? I could also have reversed it, because it is true that there is a credit teacher's education and there is also a school-based teacher's education to a limited extent. What if a school teacher wants to be a social worker finds out that you can make a huge difference as a social worker? Why, then, should he not be allowed to do so? That's what I think belongs to the past. Well, the minister says it's very few. But if it's very few, why should there even be this ceiling? That is why I believe it should be abolished. And the Minister said that the Minister was ready for a dialogue on this. This proposal is about calling for negotiations on a dialogue. Couldn't you be ready for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113152927	There remains, although there are few people, that this restriction provides funding which was needed in order to create a safer benefit system of 300 million. kr. Because although we would very much like to create flexibility, we have to look at how we spend the money best. If I was Minister of Education at the time and I had been asked so openly where to find some savings, then I think this area was natural to look at. Because we are talking about some who have an education which for a number of years on some courses is limited, but who still have a great many opportunities, including in the diploma and master system. So that is a balance between it and I think it makes sense in relation to the priorities that are also of the funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153014	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153018	Thank you. I'd like to continue a little on the same street as Mr. Jacob Mark. Is it not perhaps a little strange that it is then the students who have to pay for some improvements in the benefit system? In other words, could one not look to many other places instead of paying by simply putting a stop for those students who have chosen an education they did not fit in with anyway, or who have found out, after they have graduated, that they really would rather something else? I mean, this whole thing with primary school teachers is just an example. After all, there are many training courses that cannot be taken that way. There may in fact be more flexibility in teacher training than there is in many other courses. There are many students who, in fact, end up never handing in their bachelor's assignment or their thesis, because they have introduced this educational ceiling, and I think that something is a waste of money. Then you couldn't find the money somewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153120	There's still a lot of limitations this hasn't created. It has not, of course, created a restriction in relation to the fact that one can stop training if one has found that one is not on the training one would like to go on and then one can start a new training if one meets the conditions for entering it. So, overall, I still think that we have a lot of flexibility. After all, it is a matter of priorities across many areas. We have a huge area which, as far as I remember, is a little more than 51 billion if we count it all with including SU. And there we are sometimes asked: can you not find anything in the area that can finance something in some other areas? And again, because that is the big picture in relation to a very flexible education system, it is a relatively small limitation which I recognise takes up a lot, but a small limitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153208	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153210	Well, it is true that there is a lot of money on the Minister's side. In my party, we regard higher education, universities and research as an investment. So it is not an expense, it is an investment. And that is why, of course, it can also be felt when it is the area that has to pay for improvements elsewhere. So in my party, we'd look somewhere else. And it is true that one can change education before one has completed the education one goes on, and that is what I think is a little waste of knowledge in some way. Education is, of course, a good thing, so I do not really think it is true that the ceiling here provides room for flexibility. In fact, I think it is the opposite. I know that the Minister is very concerned about a flexible education system, and that is why I have a little difficulty in understanding that the Minister is not willing to call for negotiations on this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153305	In the government, we fully share Enhedslisten's view that this is an investment. It is an investment in the future, but right now it is also money that is being spent, although it is an investment that could be used elsewhere. And for that thing with a waste of knowledge: If you've gone 2 years on an education and find out it's not the right one and then change, you've still gotten knowledge into your head. I never believe you're wasting your time, not even your education. And so it may well be relevant that if you know that you really need something else, then perhaps in the second year you jump from law and go to primary school teacher instead. Then you've still got two years of law curriculum into your head that you can use on your further journey.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153346	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153349	Thank you. For us in the Radical Left, it is not just as Mr. Jacob Mark said an old-fashioned approach to education. The introduction of a ceiling is simply a fundamentally misunderstood and staggered approach to education. I understand that the Minister is really loyal to this decision and would also have looked this way if he had been required to find the money for something quite different from his own resort, and I can reveal that this proposal has existed for a long time. Former ministers have been presented with that proposal before, and it has then been poured down the board until the Minister's predecessor was probably not asked, but at least was informed that this was where the money was to be taken. I am very concerned about whether this is really what lies in the belly of the Minister when he says that we have to give guidance on choosing the right track for the first time. Because I think I agree with the Minister that this is not really so many, and that is also why we are wondering why such a limitation should then be applied to education. For the idea that the right track should be chosen for the first time, I think we see the consequences of the whole education system. And there are several of us who have helped to make decisions that also put pressure on the system. Aren't we going some other way than that? Is the future that you choose correctly the first time every time and down to the eighth grade?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153548	Thank you. There is a possibility of another round, so perhaps you can adjust the length of the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153556	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. It's a really, really good question, the one about choosing right the first time. I fully recognise that this can be difficult, and that is why it is also my view that we still have flexibility by making re-elections. That is something we still have ample opportunity to do, and that is also the answer I gave to Mrs Lund. Because I fully acknowledge that it can be difficult at the age of 18 and for some people, even at the age of 20, to make the right choice. But I still believe that many educational choices are a little too random and are taking place a little too quickly. And when we look at what can happen when you, for example, look at what can happen. have a new recording system such as the one they have on Sdu, where they have increased their quota 2 take-up all the way since 2008 to try to test it, and when we look at the numbers they have, where we see much less apostasy, because there is some sort of clarification, then I think it is some information we should provide. So down to my stomach I feel that I would like to make much more information available to the young people who have to make a choice. But I fully understand that it is not an objective to say that we, for example, are. has 0 per cent. Apostasy, if that's what we're supposed to be measuring success on. I don't think we're ever gonna get that, because there are so many opportunities and so much you learn when you start an education. However, I think that as far as that part is concerned, we can do even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153706	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153708	After all, we are in complete agreement on this and, incidentally, on the Sdu and the admission system. I am so glad that the Minister has turned the ship 180 degrees, because that is what he has done when he now opens up that approach to the admission system. It wasn't like that before under this government. Thank you for that and thank you for providing more information. What I am really preoccupied with is what kind of signal it sends and what kind of culture we drive by saying straight tracks for the first time. This is the one which the Minister can just comment on again. The second is that I hear a request from the Minister to offer funds. If we ask the Ministry to offer alternative sources of funding, is that a way to a new debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153805	I would like to say to the culture issue that I do not think that by providing them with more opportunities, we are creating a culture of absolute choice. But we want a culture that if you find out and realize that you are not in the right place, then you can choose to change. It's also a different signal that I think we're kind of sending with these rules. Then I share the rapporteur's frustration about this, i.e. that there is something there and that is what I meant by my comment before the paper seems sensible by saying that those who have taken an education cannot get a tax-financed education anymore. And when we saw that it took a total of 300 million. kr., which we could use in a whole different area and use very sensibly there, this seemed right. But it frustrated me so that it has settled down because I can hear that out there, even when I'm out at the universities as a lid in the way you think of education, where you suddenly think of it more limited. But it is a frustration that I have, and I hope that by saying it here today I can actually convince them that it is 1%, that is to say 1,000 out of 100,000, that is to say, 1 000 out of 100,000 that are affected by this, and don't think that it is precisely you that is not the rapporteur, but you who are a student.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153919	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113153922	Thank you. Well, I'd like to continue a little along the same path. I would like to focus on the young people themselves, because I am a little confused about the Minister. After all, I am very pleased that the Minister is focusing on flexibility in education and has also been out talking about the culture of this, with the young people making mistakes and feeling stressed and pressed, as the Minister also mentioned. So I'm a little confused about whether the Minister thinks that this educational ceiling actually contributes to the fact that there are young people feeling even more pressure than they really should be doing and that they may feel stressed over this educational ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154015	I would like to say to the whole question of stress and precisely what is stressful to young people that I am also concerned that there are so many who say that they are stressed that there are so many, especially young women, who say that they are in pain in life. At a time when they would like to feel especially in this country with all the training opportunities they have and all the flexibility they have, after all, that it is something very free, they feel it instead of a yoke they have on them. I just think it is too easy to say that it is certainly the educational ceiling. I think it is a more complex size, so I am not at all convinced that the educational ceiling has any impact on the stress that individuals feel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154058	Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154100	Now the Minister recognizes that this was about finding some money for another area. We had this proposal in the Chamber earlier as a citizen's proposal, and it was quite clear that young people actually think it is something that helps to push them further. It is clear that there is not one thing that you can isolate and say: this is just what we get stress from. But it's such a thought that the table captures. At least that is what the young themselves feel, and the border is being pushed further and further down and pushing them further down. It is all the way down to the eighth grade, as some people also mentioned, where you feel you really have to be very clear, because otherwise the table will be caught, and there is a door that slams behind you. So I would just like to know if the Minister agrees with the young people that it may help to push them further, that we have this. Because otherwise it's fair enough to say that it's only the economy that's the cause of this ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154208	Well, I guess the rules we make in here can also affect by having a signal value. I just don't think that, for example. the ceiling of training in the way it is designed with all the flexibility that still lies in it; with the 6 years; with some courses which are excluded; with an outdated education which is excluded; with a progression which is still completely intact; and then with the option of re-choosing while reading should push the young people to choose right down to the eighth grade. I don't see that connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154238	With that, we thank the Minister. Then we will begin the rapporteur's round, and that is what Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democrat, is proposing. Welcome to, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154311	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the SF for raising the debate on the education ceiling. In 2015, the Social Democratic Party concluded an agreement on a safer daily allowance system with the Danish People's Party and the then Left Government. With the agreement, we corrected the unemployment benefit reform of 2010 which the then VK government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left had carried out and which meant that thousands of Danes lost their benefit rights because they fell out of the system and lost their support. With the 2015 agreement on a safer daily allowance system, we also ensured a safer and more stable financial basis for these people, where fewer people fall out of the benefit system, not least among the unskilled. It was a good and very important agreement that was needed and for which the Social Democratic Party will always be on the same track. At the same time, the agreement had to be financed and, as you know, we did so by limiting the scope of dual education. That is why we are discussing it today. The principle that there must be a close link between education and the labour market is also one that we continue to promote, so that we give back to the community and use our education when we have finished it, before considering whether we should start a new education. Well, that's pretty reasonable. Having said that, we also need to take it seriously that a culture of performance has emerged in our education system, which is unhealthy. The explanations are many, and things are linked, but there is no doubt that what is called the 'training ceiling', that is, what is really a limitation of dual education, has contributed to it. Because it helps to increase the pressure and stress to signal that there is no room to choose wrong. This is a problem because there are a lot of other correspondingly coherent factors that make young people doubt more than they apparently did 10-15 years ago, perhaps both on themselves and on what life will bring them. It has sat down in many, many students and also in their parents and grandparents, that the welfare society is closing doors. We have listened to this, and we have acted on it, and we have recognised that we were wrong when we were involved in concluding that agreement on the limitation of dual education. For it has created greater and greater insecurity among young people, both those in the education system today and those on the way to having to choose higher education. It has simply taken too much care of itself with the feeling that is and we respect that in many of them they cannot choose again once they have decided. I am usually very fact-based and take my starting point in it, but once the feeling has taken place in a person and the doubt prevails, so that it becomes unhealthy just to be present in one's own life, then it no longer goes. That is why, shortly before the summer recess, we in the Social Democratic Party have clearly stated that we need to abolish the ceiling on education and find new funding for the agreement on a safer benefit system, which we are naturally fully behind. That is why it is also gratifying in this Chamber today to be able to discuss and discuss the SF's motion for a resolution. We in the Social Democratic Party are in favour of the proposal, genuinely in favour of it, but at the same time I would also like to use the committee's work to clarify that negotiations on the abolition of the education ceiling should be based on the contractual circle behind it. It should be noted that the comments on the motion for a resolution quite rightly state that there is a need to find new funding. It is vital for us if we are to abolish the ceiling on education. After all, we have pointed out ourselves that marketing funds could be used in higher education. That is not enough to cover the sum of 308 million. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on this subject. For the financing of a safer benefit system must not be called into question. It is an agreement that we fully support, and it must be linked. It goes without saying that it is absolutely essential, so it makes good sense that we should also invite all the parties that want to abolish the education ceiling so that we can have that discussion. The framework, if I may say so, should be in the circle of agreements. At the same time, it is worth noting that one of the governing parties has also used the summer break to express support for abolishing the education ceiling. I am thinking here of the Liberal Alliance, which said at its summer group meeting that it should be abolished. Now I look forward to hearing the comments of the rapporteur who is sitting right over there, but I think it is a good step in the right direction towards a broad agreement on something that has created great insecurity. Because we need to move on and we need to recreate a sense of security and joy in studying an education without having to be martyred by insecurity. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154910	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113154915	Thank you for that, and thank you for reporting. I am pleased that there is now a majority who seems to want to abolish the training ceiling, and I agree that there must be alternative funding on the daily allowance agreement, and we would be happy to make it available to find it. I heard it as if the rapporteur said that the rapporteur recommended that those parties who would like to make themselves available for such a debate should be invited in. I appreciate that, so it won't be such a blam game where we can stand and shoot at the circle of the agreement. We want to help find funding. But should you not be able to reach it before a choice is made, what I might be a little worried about, because when I hear the Minister for Education and Research, what is the process after an election? If we now come across the other side of the election and we are actually a majority who would like to get rid of the ceiling, but the Left says that they will not, is the Social Democrats free to agree on a new funding with those parties that would like to abolish the education ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155014	The Social Democratic Party has announced very clearly that if the government changes after a parliamentary election and where the Social Democracy will come into government, the educational ceiling will be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155030	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155032	Yes, but then I think I would just like to say thank you for the very clear answer, and then I will look forward to seeing what we can agree on in committee in order to try to call for these negotiations to abolish the ceiling even before an election, and if not, then the red block can do so after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155048	Thank you. It was almost a commendation. Is there an answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155051	No, I'm just thanking you for the rose.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155053	There's one more question. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155058	I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur. I am pleased that the Social Democrats have listened to young people. I can hear from the rapporteur's speech that it has been done, and I just think it is very positive that this development has taken place and that it is also a development that has taken place since we had the citizens' proposal before us. So it's just an acknowledgment of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155123	Well, thank you, too. I also look forward, together with my political colleagues in the Committee on Education and Research, to leading it to the next level in terms of promoting the abolition of the education ceiling. So I look forward to the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155135	With this, we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155149	Thank you. Here we are again. Now, for the third time, we have to deal with the rule of the ceiling on education. At the time it was almost 2 years ago that we discussed the proposal that was the starting point and that was adopted by the end of 2016. We took a discussion in January 2017, adjusted it, changed it and allowed a new education to be taken after 6 years and made various other adjustments. I thought we were listening and evaluating and making adjustments that were reasonable. At that time we ended up with one for the Danish People's Party and for me a fair solution. I have to be honest and say that I still think it is. I do not think it is unreasonable that if you have completed an education, you should also use it before you can take a new one. Then the opportunity to choose is discussed, and some say that it is difficult when you are in the eighth grade and have to choose. Well, I mean, you kind of have the opportunity to choose about just to day before you go to the final exam. So I don't quite understand why there's that uncertainty. Then I must also say that if we have a few hundred million that we would like to spend on education, then the Danish People's Party would much rather use them to ensure lifelong learning, because I do not believe that otherwise you can have a working life for very many years. After all, today we are discussing what the retirement age should be, and it will be given something else when we come forward a little in time, and then I believe that you will need an extra education during your working life. I think we should give this priority to the resources for not being able to take more courses immediately after each other. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155337	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark just made a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155342	When a study was published a few weeks ago about apostasy which showed that the apostasy had increased, the rapporteur was out to say that the rapporteur thinks that the education ceiling is healthy and that the rapporteur still supports it. The rapporteur has in fact been very honest about this from the outset, but the rapporteur also says that I am looking right down on my screen here, so I quote the rapporteur correctly: 'If it leads to a behaviour where you do not complete your education, then we are ready to sit down and discuss it'. What is the evidence, or what is it that is needed for the rapporteur to say: then let us sit down. Because what I and the SF are calling for in this resolution is to sit down and discuss how we can remove the ceiling. So what's it gonna take? What proof do I have to find that DF is ready for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155432	Well, we always want to discuss how we can improve education, how we can ensure that we get to the right education, how we can ensure that we can be more sure of what we choose. I just don't think that the solution is to have the opportunity to take more education after each other, and that is why I don't believe that the abolition of this is something that will solve anything for the students. That is why I believe that there are other areas in which action should be taken. But we can always sit down and discuss all sorts of things, but it will not be on the basis that we have to give the opportunity to take dual education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155508	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155510	Does that mean that the rapporteur has changed his mind on the day on which the rapporteur gave the interview? In fact, I was very pleased when I read it, and the rapporteur said that if this leads to a behavior where students drop out, he is ready to discuss it, and there is a lot of evidence that they do. Several of the universities say that this is the way it is. The Boards of Studies say this is how the apostasy has increased. Does that mean that the rapporteur no longer believes that if it leads to this kind of behaviour, then we should drop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155537	I never said that if it leads to that behavior, we should drop it. I have said that if we have a problem with a lot of people dropping out, then we can sit down and discuss and look at what is doing it and what can be done to make the students safe, so that they actually get into the right degree programmes and finish the programmes they want so that they can get out and use them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155600	The next is Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155603	Thank you. It's just that I was just sticking a little bit to this with the opportunity to re-select. Because it is quite true that one can avoid putting the final sentence of one's thesis into law, not handing it in and starting a social worker's education, for example. However, can the rapporteur not understand that it would be a little strange for the student who has studied at the university for many years on an education, not to complete that education and have that competence, and then to choose another education, because there are some other competences that you would like to have and which you need in your future working life? My point is, this isn't a real choice. Is the rapporteur not able to understand this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155650	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155652	Maybe I can't do that. I guess I feel like if you've gone on a really long education, you'd like to finish it, yes, well, I understand that. But then I have also seen a belief that it is because you want to go out and use it. I would very much urge you to choose at as early a time as possible if you think you have come up with a wrong education and then come up with the education you actually think you should use. Otherwise, I think it is very reasonable that if you have taken a very long education, you use it for a period of time and pay back to society. And then we say that you can take a new one, because you have such a long working life, so it may be that you have to have one or two or three careers on it. That's quite fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155731	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155734	Then perhaps I just think that the rapporteur and I do not quite share the same view of when and how competences are a good thing. Our labour market is so linked that there are many jobs where you need many different skills; where it could actually be beneficial to have more than one education. I think it is because I regard education as a good thing and not as a disadvantage or as something society just throws a lot of money at. It is, of course, an investment in the creation of the best trained labour force, which is why I simply do not see it as a restriction when some people choose to have more than one education. But there I may just basically disagree with the Danish People's Party... it happens often in my life, you might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155822	No, I do not see that we have a fundamental disagreement about it, because I also see education as a good thing. I just don't believe that you need to get two, three or more education before you start working. I think it may be very good to have an education to start and then, during your working life, need more skills and be able to get the training required. I think that is actually the way to create the greatest value both for the individual and for the labour market as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155852	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no more inscribed in this speech, so I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Vredeling, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113155906	Thank you for the floor. When Mr. Marcus Knuth cannot be here today, he asked me if I could not have liked it, and I must admit that I feel a bit like Bill Murray in Groundhog Day, so now I thought I had got a new rapporteurship and had to go on in the text, and now I'm sitting here discussing a bill that we've been through in the past. I found my old speech on the limitation of dual education, and then we have to take it from there. I can also understand from the previous speaker that I am not the only one who has it in that way. But thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for focusing on an important topic, and I think it is. As you know, the motion for a resolution seeks to abolish the agreement on the limitation of dual education. In the Left, we believe that we must train ourselves throughout our lives, but that we should rather have such a progression in this education and not double education. In other words, there has to be a development aimed at continuing training rather than taking sides in the education system unless one is in the area where we have already made a fairly comprehensive list of opportunities for exemption. So when you're a bachelor, you go on studying a candidate, and that's what I think it's good sometimes to set expectations. And all this debate I agree with is one of the most important things we have at all about what is stressful to young people. We live in one of the most socially just societies in the world, we have one of the finest welfare states that exists at all, yet there is fear and fear of achievement out there. And I don't deny that any of this may have some kind of confluence with it, but I actually often think that having clear expectations might help some of that anxiety. In other words, without my thinking that I have found the stone shown in that area, I would say that making demands on each other may not be so bad. We must expect that when people have read a bachelor's degree, they go further into the system and start on a candidate, and if they do not want them to go out on the labour market. Having said that, I understand, of course, the purpose of the SF's motion for a resolution. People shouldn't get caught if they find out they've made the wrong decision. And I also agree that if you find out that your bachelor and the accompanying job opportunities weren't for you anyway, or that for some reason you're sitting thinking that you're doing something that's not something you can put together with your own expectation of creating your own personal happiness in life and in the labour market, it could of course be an opportunity to try something else. But so can you. After all, we have relaxed the restrictions, and now you just know that it is important along the way that you are absolutely sure of your choice. In this context, let me add that I am annoyed that there is a tendency to draw a picture that there is no flexibility. But to the extent that this has to be discussed again, and I think we are going to, because I have sometimes stood here with the same problem, at least in principle, I think we should look at it and it is perhaps easy for me to say when I leave this area afterwards and go over to my second rapporteurship whether it is not the possibility of dispensing when it has worked for a while, and if this debate does not lie down, you might have to look at it again when you think the time is right. But the Left is in a process in which we are making training even more flexible, and I also hope that it can mean that this debate will not be one that fills so much and acts as such a major constraint out there. Our desire is to increase the flexibility of the Master's degree programmes. And I have to admit, if anyone came with 300 million. kr. or what is now the amount that belongs in this area, I would rather, if I were still away in this area, use them to make the quality of the current system better than to remove this agreement. So the Left therefore believes that we must, of course, have flexibility in our education system. Everyone must have the opportunity to live out their dreams and visions of what they want to do, but we also need to ensure that there are clear expectations of each other and that you get the right choice. We cannot vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160418	There are just a few comments to be made briefly, and the first is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160424	The rapporteur mentions this: when people take a bachelor's degree, they expect them to move on to a Master's degree. I am just wondering whether this is how the rapporteur sees the labour market of the future and whether one could not imagine that this is not always the case. Now the rapporteur himself mentions that the Left also wants some more flexibility in our education system, and I think it sounds a little like the Left is arguing for something that is really just about the economy. It seems like you've found a vaccine against a disease that isn't really there, that because you had to find some economy for something, you came up with this. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that in future it will be the case that when you take a bachelor's degree, you have to take a Master's degree.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160529	I think I was told that when you take a bachelor's degree, you either have to go to the labour market or continue to study, and that can also be a Master's degree. However, I fully agree that the labour market of the future is one in which I think we should have a more flexible option when we read on. And the continuing training that comes after the various steps up in the system that is now must be much more flexible than it is today. That is, of course, what our highly visionary and talented minister is working to create in this area, and I am very pleased when I look back on my former rapporteurship.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160607	Does the author wish to make a second brief comment? They said no, thank you. The next brief remark is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160616	In fact, I think it was a very good speech, and I also think it is exciting that something has come along which reminds me that this may have consequences for how young people think ^ regardless of whether they perceive it rationally or irrationally that they think it that way. I had two 9th-class girls who called me today to write a project about this stuff with the pressure in the education system. They are in the ninth grade and yet they mentioned the education ceiling, which I wondered when they did. Why are you doing this? But they did. So what I really want to know is if the Left could be prepared to look into what this training ceiling is doing. It's incredibly hard to figure out if this is gonna make some students drop out. It's very difficult to isolate it. Does this affect the well-being of students? Could the Left be interested in us doing some minor study at the universities of what this really does to the students?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160714	It is my clear opinion that these figures are being followed very closely by the Ministry. When I think back, I think that the most fear-provoking choice I have made in my own life is precisely: What should you train for? Which way to go in life? I understand this is difficult. I also understand, I think, that it will probably never be a choice where one can remove the sense of doubt as to whether or not one has chosen correctly, and I am not sure that I believe that limiting dual education will play a role here. But if there was a study that showed it, I would also hope that rational people would sit down and look at the figures that showed it and then take note of it and look at the derogations that exist so that we can maintain the properness in which I think there is, both that we offer young people an education or that we can continue to be able to train and that we cannot train in new ways in such an infinite way, but that we can of course also be wrong. And in some cases, there is a reason for dispensing with the rules in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160827	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160829	What I am just thinking will be the problem with the increased exemptions, is that it does not provide certainty, so that one will sit and think: can I then one day get a derogation? That is also why I believe that the easy and unbureaucratic solution will be to remove it. There are usually major changes in the field of education, with approx. Three years' notice, but when you introduced this, you just did it with a fingertip and the student counsellors had sat and misguided in many places, which made some young people squeezed out there. So that's why I think it might be a little interesting to have a study of it, where you really ask out there, how this has affected the lives of students. And I thought that might really be in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160907	I'm not sure I quite got the question from Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, so he's gonna have to apologize if I don't respond specifically to that. But it is my feeling that the ministry is following it closely and that there is a great interest in looking into this area, and that is also being done actively in the educational institutions. If something comes up in this respect, I also think that it will be responded to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160936	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now and we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113160946	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution, which is, of course, about a debate aimed at abolishing the education ceiling. This is a debate in which we in the Enhedslist would very much like to take part, because the educational ceiling for us is a complete miserable invention. The educational ceiling prevents many young people from getting the education they dream of. It will cut off the opportunity to choose again for young people who have made the wrong choice. This reduces the educational opportunities of young people who consider that another training can strengthen their skills. The educational ceiling also leads to a loss of welfare, because sometimes it makes sense that a teacher would like to train as a teacher or that a nurse would like to train as a midwife. It gives them extra knowledge, it gives them more competences that are beneficial to all of us and to our welfare societies. The educational ceiling builds barriers into our education system, although what we need is flexibility. Flexibility is perhaps a word that many of us who are present in the Chamber today often use when we talk about education, and there is at least some basic consensus that that is what is needed. The educational ceiling is exactly the opposite. We need a flexible education system and not an education system that locks young people in decisions they make when they become students. Because there must be room to make mistakes and the training ceiling means that there is only room to go straight through the education system; that there is no room to step aside; that there is no room to choose again. But the most serious thing about the educational ceiling is the stress and the pressure it brings to all young people who have to choose education. All of a sudden you are confronted with the fact that education is a choice that is very, very difficult to change, and it gives a huge amount of pressure that I really think is harmful to young people who are already experiencing very much pressure from society. My position and that of Enhedslisten is that training should open doors and not close them, as the training ceiling does. We work for an education system where there is room to make mistakes, where there is room to think about and where you can train your whole life. That is why I am glad that today there has been an indication from the Socialist rapporteur that if there is a new majority after an election, this ceiling will be removed. In the Enhedslisten we support this motion for a resolution. We are very happy to enter into negotiations on how we can abolish the ceiling before and after a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161249	Thank you to the rapporteur, there is no sign of it, so we will continue in the series of speeches. And the next is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161259	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is no secret that in the Liberal Alliance we share the wish of the proposers to abolish the restriction on dual education. In fact, I was present during Mrs Mette Reissmann's speech... just sitting in the grip, enjoying a cup of coffee and enjoying the good rapporteur's speech... so I have heard what has been said here about our summer group meeting. It is clear that many students, or at least some students, may experience it as a restriction of their freedom that they cannot take parallel courses. As I have also said on several occasions and as Mr. Jacob Mark has also held on to me, I actually have a double education myself, so it would be a bit hypocritical if I were very opposed to it. That is why we have also proposed removing the restriction on the ban on dual education. However, if the day should come when the rules against dual education are removed, then I do not think that it is very strange that there is any discussion about stress or that it is difficult to be young or that it is difficult to take an education that will silence. I do not think that much will be spent either, because the sum that it cost to offer dual education was barely a few percent of the money we spend overall on educating young people. So it has never been very popular to take a double education. I also believe that those people who like to talk about stress in the education system will find some other reasons to talk stress up. So I do not think the proposal will remove stress. But if, for a limited amount, we can cut down on the number of treatments in this Chamber, the money may be well spent anyway. But if we cannot then support the motion for a resolution as it stands, then it is because there is, after all, a financing problem that needs to be resolved, and it is a financing problem which is of particular concern to the Left and the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats. The limitation of dual education is, of course, particularly those of these three parties, which is why it is, of course, only right that we should sit down and find a common solution where this funding is maintained. And before there is this alternative funding, so that we can maintain the desire of a very large political majority to set up the benefit system in a certain way, then, at the end of the day, we cannot back the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161616	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161619	After all, it is very fortunate that I had taken into account the concern that there should be funding and that it should be found in the contract circle. That is why I have not retabled any previous proposals or the citizens' proposal, but rather something as pragmatic as a negotiating proposal. I have simply put forward a proposal on behalf of the SF to call for negotiations to see if we can abolish the training ceiling; see if we can agree on funding. That is what I was hoping that now that LA is no longer in favour of the education ceiling, at least not in the press, would be a part of it. But it doesn't sound like you've been able to push the government into it. But I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware that it is not the ceiling that I am proposing to abolish. It is a proposal that we should sit down and negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161708	Yes, I am aware of that. However, there is also a large majority in the Folketing which seems to think that it does not matter that reforms are going very, very slowly. So we go down to glaciation with reforms, and then it'll probably come sometime.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161726	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161729	Then it is good that LA is always there to whip the mood and speed up again. If LA really cares about this and I saw that LA's political rapporteur was out on social media the other day saying how important it was to get rid of the education ceiling, then it would be obvious that LA itself was pushing up the pace a little. So if not now, then when? I'm tempted to ask. If it is not before an election, will you be prepared to sit down and try to find alternative funding immediately after a choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161801	After all, I cannot answer how much political capital my party will have after an election. So we have to look first at how much political capital we have at all when the elections are over and then we have to consider what we are going to use it for. But that's one thing, that's quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161821	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113161829	Thank you. Here, from my place and from the alternative, I should like to say a clear and clear 'yes' to the motion for a resolution. I do not think, like the previous rapporteur, that stress is being addressed. It was said that you will do that regardless of what is being changed or not. In the alternative, we believe that the ceiling on education helps to create stress and frustration about the choice of education, because what if you choose wrong? We believe in the group of young people who say that they feel enormously pressured and stressed because of the many choices they face in their education. The Danish Magisters Association conducted a study which showed that the stress levels among students at universities and professional colleges are high. 90% replied that they have experienced stress during the last semester. 23% stated that during the last semester they had felt stressed a great deal of the time. So we think we should take this very seriously. The educational ceiling is for me to see the last shot on the trunk in a whole range of policy measures that put young people under greater pressure. We know that their well-being is affected, and basically it is about whether young people feel that they can find meaning in their lives. It is difficult to make such a crucial choice that affects so many years into the future, and it is difficult to feel locked in a daily life where you don't see that it makes sense. That is why we need more flexibility in our education system. I know that the students themselves think so, and I am also pleased that the Minister is focusing on this because we need to have some more flexibility into our education system. When the ceiling was introduced, we saw a reaction from a lot of people who felt affected. Now it is mentioned that it is not a very large number. I think the people who get hit may not care what kind of numbers we can throw out here. We saw demonstrations, we saw petitions, we saw a citizens' proposal in the Parliamentary Chamber from the young people themselves. So I think we owe it to the kids to listen. We owe it to them to have access to a training course that we ourselves have had, to us who sit here in the Parliamentary Chamber. We owe them security in the education system. We owe them a flexible education system which takes account of the fact that one can be wrong. Because it's a really good thing to be wrong. That's what we learn from, and that's what we need to teach the young people that it's really good to be wrong and it needs to be supported in our education system. So I would say that I am pleased that since the citizens' proposal in the spring, both the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democrats have changed their views on it. I am very pleased about that. So, if anyone is in doubt, I would like to say once again that the alternative will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113162152	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113162204	I think there were several who mentioned earlier in this debate that the education ceiling is a thing of the past. Perhaps the most important signal that has been sent out from the debate on the introduction of the educational ceiling is that it was when they said: Skomager, stay with your read. But we are not going back in time, we are going forward in terms of education, because we cannot be wise enough. And we know, we talk about it all the time. The Minister is very committed to the debate on the future of what could be my sons' primary school classes. They are in the 3rd and 6th grade, and two thirds of their comrades have to go out at some point and have some jobs that we haven't even got a name on yet. We don't know them. This means that they have to go into a world of change and where all we really know is that one has to be able to move. That helps education absolutely decisively, especially in the society we have and which we are proud to have built up. However, the educational ceiling means that if you have taken one higher education course, e.g. a professional bachelor, then you cannot take an education on the same or at a lower level. There are some exceptions, but that is the basic principle, and that is what they have clearly heard in the eighth grade. This prevents a bachelor in sociology, for example. to start another bachelor's degree, which might make sense. We've seen plenty of examples of it. Even if there are credit teachers and other things, there are plenty of roads that are now closed. For me, then, this is an old-fashioned and clever way of going to education. It is actually true taste judgment, because it is all about whether the diploma points up and whether you can just as easily climb up some ladder. It is a very, very traditional way of thinking where education is always something where you build up, but that is not the case. It can make at least as good sense to go sideways, go out and get back in, go down, go up or walk around. In other words, education is no longer just something that you put on top of something else, and fortunately for that, because we need much more of the other. In this way, I think that the supporters of the ceiling ignore what actually creates value, and perhaps most of all what it is that should create value in the future in our society. These are people's dreams, these are people's ambitions, this is all about, and even from an economic point of view, it does not seem to make much sense. Well, it was only 15 million. DKK, which was downloaded to the daily allowance system in 2017. I understand that this is more forward-looking. The daily allowance agreement must, of course, be financed. That is what we want in the Radical Left too. There are some things with this ceiling that have become extremely clear to me. One is this with a shoemaker, stay with your reading, and the other is this alignment that has followed it. As far as the many who drop out of their educations are concerned, it has suddenly become something like saying, "You can just drop out! Now, bourgeois politicians are talking about the fact that you just can't go to the exam. It is then a strange approach to education to advise people not to go to the exam based on the argument that then they can just go on. It's a waste of resources, isn't it? For me, education is not just such a redistribution. It is really fundamental about value policy because it is freedom for the individual and gold for society. I actually think we in this circle agree that this is the key to insight, to reflection and to overview and some of the things that rust us aller best for the future. It is human to be wrong, dear government, and to see that the consequences have become some others. I think that the Left's replaced rapporteur had some very fine reflections on it. These consequences were different from those that might have been expected, and understanding young people and education culture in this educational approach may not be the primary competence of the central administration, and we must take that into account here. The Left rapporteur also said that the Left is in a process of more flexibility in education. Please let it continue. He also said that the debate on this educational ceiling should be less full, but that is just not the way the world works. Because this debate is really going on out there in the real world. It takes place with the students, with the teachers, with the parents and even with the school pupils. These are real and real people who lack some answers to their problems. It is not a matter of any handshaking legislation we have come up with in here. Quite frankly, I can hear all the rapporteurs all around, including the government's rapporteurs, that no one shows any deep-seated love for this educational ceiling, and I understand that very well. Should we not then sit together and adopt this very pragmatic resolution to at least negotiate on it? I'm sure it'll come. If it does not come before an election, it will come after a choice, and then we might as well get started and show that we want to work to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113162846	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113162856	Thank you. Mette Thomsen is studying Arab studies, and during the refugee crisis she thought that she really wanted to help out in the Danish hospitals, because she can see that they were under pressure, and it was difficult during the refugee crisis to communicate with them because they didn't know the language, and then she thought that when she finished the Arab studies, she would like to be a nurse, but although we need nurses in Denmark, she cannot be. There is Louise Baagøe, who is a physiotherapist, and in her internship she has found out that she has a particular interest in surgery and wants to read medicine, but although we are going to need doctors and surgeons, she cannot be allowed to do so. There is Andrea Dalsgaard, who has a dream of studying psychology and who started in Danish with secondary subjects in psychology in the hope of later entering psychology, but that possibility has been closed down. There is Benedicte Smith-Sivertsen, who studied philosophy, and who thought that it might be exciting to mix it with molecular biomedicine, because she did not believe in professional boundaries and thought that the subjects could play into each other in an exciting way, but neither can she be allowed to. These examples of people who have been caught are real examples, and I have read them before, but I do not think they are less relevant today. As several rapporteurs have said, we have been standing here before and having this debate, and I would like to make the political promise today that we will continue to stand here. Not from today's date onward, but we will be standing here again and again and again until this educational ceiling is abolished, and I am sure it will do so if not now, then after a choice. But what I think has happened since the last time is that the Social Democrats have been saying that, as many other rapporteurs have said today, we are pushing young people and that young people are under stress. That stress comes from the inside and from the outside, and that will change, so that is why the ceiling on education will be abolished. Thank you to the Social Democratic Party. LA has been out to say that in reality it was probably not the state that had to decide how many courses to take, because students are free. Thanks to LA. I just need to see some action, but I hope it comes. We have obtained more measurements from universities, we have received more measurements from some of those who represent the students, who show that the educational ceiling has a negative effect on the well-being of students. So I really think things have happened that make it relevant to stand here again today. But I also thought that it would probably be difficult to entice the honourable Parliament to vote in favour of the proposal, as it was, if I just proposed abolishing the education ceiling, so I thought about what I could lure my very pragmatic colleagues with. At the very least, we must be tempted to enter into negotiations and say that if we can find alternative funding, we may be able to abolish the training ceiling. That is actually what this proposal is all about. I have had to explain on many occasions that this proposal was not about abolishing the training ceiling, but simply about a joint statement that we could enter the negotiating room where we abolish the training ceiling, but not even there was support for that. The minister says that we have really, really good guidance in Denmark, and therefore there may be little reason to be worried. The only problem is that you cut the instructions. During the last vocational training reform, and we even took part in it ourselves, so that there has been a clear statement here, and in fact there have been a great many studies afterwards, which have shown that we are not being guided in the way we should, that there are a great many young people who do not know when they are being guided and that we have a whole group of those who are ready for training who are not being guided. Those in youth education receive virtually no guidance, and every time we talk about whether we could not introduce counselling after a completed youth education, it just gets rejected. So I don't know where the idea of that good guidance, even later in the education system, comes from. In fact, there were a lot of students who got caught up because of lack of guidance. Then the Minister says that it is very few, and another rapporteur says that it has never been particularly popular to take two courses. So what's the problem? Then why is this ceiling needed? That's what we've been trying to say from the start. Something has been introduced that creates pressure, stress and that is not good for our education system and that is contrary to the Prime Minister's own thinking that one must be able to train oneself throughout one's life. And for what, because there were very few who actually took two courses? Then the minister tells me what provoked me a little, namely that the students should not think that it just hits them • don't think that it hits you. The problem is simply that you do not know when you will be hit by something, and that is how it is with uncertainty and doubts, and that is why it is not enough just to give a little extra exemptions, as the rapporteur of the Left proposes. When there are 8th classes or 9th classes, as it was today, calling me and saying that they feel pressured because they may be affected by that educational ceiling, I would like to say: calm now, the risk that you will be hit by the education ceiling in many years is probably not so great. But I just think that when one sees the educational ceiling in a context where one also has national tests, many more than ever before, more PISA participation than ever before, education readiness assessment or non-training readiness assessment, more character races and character bonuses, then it seems to be a lot of pressure that I think we should leave young people out of. That is why I believe that the training ceiling is a very good place to start. I would also like to say that we will, of course, continue to work in committee and try to have some kind of report written or at least produce a report, and I would really like to see the whole red or red-green block, or what we shall call the five parties in the opposition, together marking that this will change after an election. I really hope that the Liberal Alliance, which has said at both their summer group meeting and on social media and everywhere else, that they will also be able to participate in this, will also be involved if it is available after election. Precisely because I hope and believe that the Liberal Alliance will be a part of this, I will also read my favourite quote from Mr. Henrik Dahl up. I have read it before, but I think it is telling why an education ceiling does not belong in Danish education policy. It says: I myself have two master's degrees, and I have them in two subjects that have absolutely nothing to do with each other, namely film science and sociology. For some periods I have lived on one degree, and in other periods I have lived on the other, and that is probably the last I have lived on. But no matter how and how I wouldn't be who I am if I didn't have both my master's degrees, and it has been of incredibly great benefit both to me as a person and to the state in terms of tax payments. I think I will make it a tradition to read out the very apt quote as to why the ceiling on education should be abolished until we succeed in abolishing the ceiling on education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113163617	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and there are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113163636	I will open the debate in a moment when I have put the rapporteurs in place up here in the front row, where please find the desk with the little mark on which the party position is shown. I assume you've logged out on your own desk, so now you can log in on the borrowed desk. I'm a little unsure if you've all tried to sit in these seats. At least some of you have, but there's one that doesn't. So there has to be time for instruction. Then I can see that the rapporteurs who are present in the Chamber are about to be in place on the now borrowed desks. So I declare the debate opened and the first speaker is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113163858	Thank you very much. It is always very interesting, how to put it, with these discussion debates. They can either open up a long, chromed debate, or they can end up with a certain degree of consensus, and I have the hope that, following this debate today, there will be some kind of consensus. Because the truth is that and I do not have to hide it, I think I was also told at last year's debate that I thought it was very regrettable in every way possible, indeed deeply regrettable, that the vote in December 2015 had the result that it did. I think so for a variety of reasons. I think it is both because I think it had dressed Denmark to be fully involved in Europol and to be able to help further develop it, and because there were a large number of the legal acts that we voted on, which in fact had also been able to give the Danes a large number of rights that they do not have today. Some of the concerns that we in my party have had, at least after the Danes decided to reject the lifting of the legal reservation, and we were in this so-called limbo vis-à-vis Europol, with the special agreement that we have received and which we have negotiated across the parliamentary parties, a completely unanimous parliament, have proved to be, if not groundless, but at least so far not to materialise in major problems. And we owe most of all, I think, to the other participants in Europol for that. I also think it should be recognised that, on the basis of the mandate laid down in the text of the agreement, the government has also tried to fulfil it. There are, however, two concerns I want to flag here. I still think away and now it is something that the National Police have written a number of times that should give cause for concern when it is that the National Police say that the current agreement in the near future will be insufficient for the police to have the means they need in order to combat cross-border crime and investigate cross-border crime. And I say that in this debate, because I just think that all participants in this agreement should take responsibility for that situation in time, whether you recommended a "yes" in December 2015 or whether you recommended a "no" in 2015. I understand that there is still a lack of technology to be deployed and whether the QUEST system is ready for this, etc., but I think that the warning signals from the National Police in this context should give rise to a joint attempt to prepare the situation. The second point - and this is not so much directly about the Europol agreement - is that one of the things we can see here is that there is beginning to be a real basis on which to be able to join Eurojust. After all, some of the things that have absorbed both me and my party are how we both prevent, combat and come from money laundering scandals to profit tax scandals to other forms of financial crime. In this context, Danish involvement in Eurojust will be as close as possible to being a very, very useful tool. And in this light, the Social Democrats must also call on all parties to do so, regardless of whether they recommended a yes in December 2015 or recommended a no in December 2015 • that, when we had to negotiate a Europol agreement and provide the government with a basis for negotiating a special agreement on behalf of Denmark, we should enter into it as actively and in a spirit of compromise as we did when it comes to Eurojust. I do not have many further comments on this part of the debate, but just to sum up: I still find it regrettable that Denmark cannot be fully involved, but, having said that, we have to say on the basis that the agreement actually works quite well, but with the reservation and an appeal to all parties of the Folketing that we are very aware of the warning that the National Police once again give to the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164331	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one for a brief remark. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164334	Thank you. Well, we all know that if you've been very high up in a tree, there may be trouble coming back down. All the more so, I think there is reason to thank the rapporteur for a very balanced rapporteur's speech. In other words, everything that we heard during the campaign that paedophiles would get free play, etc., was not mentioned, and there was a recognition that we have had a system with which there may be problems, but which works at the present time, and we must, of course, ensure that it continues to do so. And I would like to sign for that because I think it is good and very good to hear it from the Socialist rapporteur. I have two questions. The first is about the past: was it not too bad that we had a Treaty of Lisbon that meant that we could not opt for individual legal reservations, but absolutely had to abolish the entire legal reservation, for example. to be a full member of Europol? The second question I have is: Britain is now leaving the European Union, which means that a huge contributor to Europol will be outside the scope of cooperation. Is it not time for us to find a way in Europe to achieve sensible police cooperation against cross-border crime between democratic states that are not bound up with the fact that you are necessarily a member of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164451	I would like to make a number of comments on this. First of all, I would like to say that I and I have to reveal that I did not get any further popular in many different places. I was even out during the election campaign up to the vote in December 2015 and say that I really thought that we from the yes side not only tightened it a little, but tightened it very much in the approach we had to try to convince the Danes. Already at that time I had the concern that we were going to talk down to the Danes. In fact, I thought that there were plenty of sensible, objective arguments: both for us to be fully and fully involved in Europol, but also for it to give rise to the abolition of the 22 other acts that were voted on. It's just to say thank you for the rapporteur's signing for it. Then I would just like to reply briefly to the rapporteur's question. Well, now we have to look at how it ends with Britain. I am still waiting with excitement for them to resolve the issue of their overall and whole relationship with the European Union. Until then, I think it is too early to anticipate what cooperation should be like.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164602	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164604	Yes, but even if you imagine that Britain will not leave the European Union in a few months' time, we already have the problem today. Switzerland has proposed to be able to have direct access to the search for the fight against terrorism, that is to say serious terrorism, as the fact that they do not have it can have serious consequences. So there is Norway, there is a third country and there are other countries that are democratic countries. And that is what we are talking about; we are not talking about Turkey, or Saudi Arabia, for that sort of reason, being allowed to go straight in and retrieve information from the registers. We're talking about democratic countries. So is there not already a basis for us to start discussing how to get a system that effectively involves the various police authorities in the fight against cross-border crime, without necessarily having to solve tickets for the internal market?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164659-2	I think there may be every reason to discuss it. I just think that what we have to do with is that, in the end, it is an issue of interpretation, what is sovereignty, and in the interpretation of what sovereignty is, it is precisely the kind of information that the rapporteur mentions and which a large number of countries are trying to protect. After all, I also recall that during the referendum held in December 2015, the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party actually warned, in relation to a large number of other acts, that it would suddenly be possible to see that a large number of things could be imprisoned in other EU countries. So, in that light, I understand if the countries participating in Europol say: we want a community here based on giving some sovereignty to the authority, which then makes it possible to have this confidential exchange of information. This does not mean that we should stop discussing it, nor refrain from discussing it with the British when the time comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113164820	Thank you. This year is the second time we have this debate on the Danish police's relations with Europol, and there is not so much new under the sun in relation to the last debate on the issue. So what we are doing here may well end up being very retrospective. The short of the long term is that the National Police continue to conclude that this agreement is operationally satisfactory. It is even written in the statement that the situation we have now is operational almost equivalent to the direct access that the police had until 1 May 2017. That's right. In other words, employees who wanted information to be checked in Europol's databases called the NEC's employees who received their paychecks from the National Police at the time. Today they are still calling Ejby to some employees, perhaps even the same people who are now getting their paychecks from Europol. At times, therefore, the tasks are also carried out by two staff members in The Hague, who will then also receive their paychecks from Europol. So it's mostly a matter of who delivers the payroll. That may be important enough, of course, but I do not think that is how the load falls over. Then we also have the situation that in the evening these inquiries are handled directly to Europol's operational centre. It is the case that as part of this agreement Denmark was given the opportunity to hire eight people, and the National Police have then considered that four were sufficient. Then we should experience the situation that suddenly we have some challenges, so we can easily double the strength. Then we can see from this statement that the exchange of information via SIENA has increased from 2017 to 2018, and the number of Danish registrations in EIS has also increased from 2017 to 2018. And of course Denmark is still among the most diligent applicants in the EIS. So we can safely conclude that Danish police in all operational practices have been set up as before 1 May 2017. Then there is participation in analysis projects and board meetings, where I also recall something from the debate prior to the vote that we would be excluded from that. One new analysis project has been set up since 1 May 2017, and Denmark is part of this. Six meetings of the Europol Management Board have been held since 1 May 2017. Denmark has been a member of all of them, and since you do not vote on the Europol Management Board, Denmark is also in practice completely as before 1 May 2017. See, our esteemed colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs visited The Hague not long ago, and there they were told that Europol was pleased that Denmark had agreed to this agreement. One might wonder whether this is the message they receive when we have heard about how much trouble there has been with the agreement and how glad we should be that the others had agreed to the agreement, since the picture in The Hague is that they are extremely pleased that we have agreed to this agreement. We are, of course, in the Danish People's Party, because we have a very good agreement when we have to use the jargon used in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Then there is the future, as several rapporteurs have said. As was the case in 2017, the National Police also writes in this statement that in the near future Danish police will be disadvantaged than police authorities in other countries. Then you can always ask: What is the near future? Apparently it wasn't a year. I don't know if it's two years or three years. I don't dare answer that. But it is evidently such a concept that contains a certain kind of rubber band. But, as I said, we have a very good deal. We have just as good opportunities to access the information we need, and we have just as good impact possibilities as we have had in the past. Then it is the case that the European Union faces the situation of having to say goodbye to Britain by the end of March 2019, and that also means that Europol has to say goodbye to Britain. The UK is a major supplier of information to the EIS. The last figures I saw were that Britain was the one who supplied the most information to the system. Whether it is still relevant here in 2018, I dare not answer, but according to the last figures I saw, it was at least that way. Most of us here know that London, if any, is the headquarters for the spread of Islamic extremism and terror in Europe. So it doesn't really matter whether Britain is now part of this cooperation or not. That is why, of course, it is also crucial that Britain stays as close to Europol as possible. Of course, this also leaves the question of whether the European Union has become too small for Europol. And I think you can actually conclude that. If we now have a situation in which Britain joins, where Norway is not part of the cooperation, where Switzerland is not part of the cooperation and where a number of countries in the Western Balkans, which are also problematic with regard to terrorism, are not part of the cooperation, then we could well imagine another model involving a larger circle of countries which can then be involved in this work and also benefit from it. I feel that way, and I think many others feel that, when it comes to our common security and security in Europe, it is actually too important and important to be involved in such a political and tactical game about the European Union. So I would like to take this opportunity to call on Europol to be better equipped for the future so that both countries inside and outside Europe can take part in the work in order to ensure maximum support for the important work. But there is no doubt that the agreement we have reached is really, really good. And yes, these doomsday considerations that we have mentioned a little about Denmark as the paedophiles' paradise and favorite destination for children's lookers, and I don't know what, I think we can finally bury them today if we didn't already do it last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165517	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165521	Thank you. Allow me to read some of the report by the National Police, which says: 'The National Police have stated that the possibility of extended data access will be used in connection with the ongoing implementation of the Querying Europol Systems (QUEST). The implementation of QUEST means that for the EU Member States which are members of Europol, more flexible and quick access to part of the information in the EIS will then be available in the front line of the operational staff via mobile search platforms (mobile phones and tablets). This possibility will not be made available to Denmark as a result of the fact that, under the Europol Agreement, Denmark does not have direct access to the EIS. In this connection, the National Police have stated that it means that the Danish police will not be able to make notices in the EIS with the same flexibility as the police in the other EU countries as part of the task of the patrol police, including in the context of immigration control, border control or action against foreign persons related to the gang environment, etc. Now I know that we share the view that immigration controls, border controls at least at present. Does the rapporteur see the tragic coincidence that his party has contributed to the failure of the Danish police in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165634	No, I really can't. What I have to say is that it is about the same creep that was in the statement last year. There it was also in the near future that all these hurtful things would happen, and it is still gone. And, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that is obviously something that contains a certain amount of rubber band. I don't know if it's in 10 years, but it certainly contains a certain amount of rubber band. So I do not think there is any reason to worry in advance about something that is going to happen in a time when Europol may have completely changed its character, in other words, where it is not just cooperation between EU countries and some third countries, but perhaps cooperation where many more countries are actively involved in it for the benefit of the security and security of Europeans.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165725	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165727	I think that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth takes very nonchalantly on what the National Police have written, I have to say. I mean, I lean on the National Police and consider them to be more experts on operational police work than both myself and the rapporteur. And here it says: "If the police so happen to a foreign person or stop a foreign vehicle suspected of engaging in criminal activities, the police staff will not be able to conduct an on-the-spot search by mobile phone in the EIS in order to determine whether the person concerned is known for crime in other EU countries. It's not very satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165803	But no one can do that at the moment. And that's why it's future music. I feel it is the case with future music that, of course, one should take it seriously to some extent, but one should not overdramatize. Well, you shouldn't say this is a disaster either. It's not in any way. On the contrary, we now have an agreement that the National Police say is perfectly in order and is a good deal. The operational practice is as it has been up to now, and Europol is also pleased. So I think we should all be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165839	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Left. It's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113165858	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor, and thank you for the detailed statement. The statement we are holding today is, as others have said, the second in the series of debate on the state of the Danish police in relation to Europol. It is something that emerges from the political agreement that we reached on 12 December 2016 that we here in the Danish Parliament will monitor developments with regard to Europol closely and that we will take stock annually on the basis of the report prepared by the National Police. It has now been a year since the Minister for Justice made the first statement in this Chamber, and I think it is quite clear from today's statement that the state of affairs has come to an end. Although it is once again a sober and objective statement which is not written by a 'yes' or 'no' page, it is clear that the consequences of our withdrawal from Europol have already begun to emerge. Much of the debate we had both before and after the vote on the Danish legal reservation has gone on to mean that the Danish police would lose their direct access to Europol's information system, the AIS. This has been the reality of Danish police since 1 November 2017, when the police passed over to Denmark's special arrangement, our Storm P. solution, in relation to access to AIS. The scheme requires the Danish police to request access to information via one of the four Danish-speaking national experts who are then employed by Europol. So how did it work? Yes, according to the National Police, there is in practice a longer case for information and searches compared to the situation before 1 November 2017. In other words, the police are wasting their time. That goes without saying, since the police no longer have direct access to Europol's databases. The National Police have stated that Denmark's special arrangements for access to AIS have been implemented in such a way that requests from the Danish police within normal working hours are handled by the Danish-speaking Europol staff in Ejby. Where matters are of a more urgent nature and outside normal working hours, the police shall instead contact the National Situation and Operations Centre of the National Police Office, which shall then forward the request to the Europol Operational Centre. And even though the National Police consider that the scheme has been satisfactory so far, I cannot help thinking about the day when the criminals start to commit crime outside normal working hours. As far as I am concerned, access by the police to AIS is fairly reasonable if they have arrested a suspicious person by, for example. the Danish-German border between kl. 9 a.m. and 9 a.m. 17. If it happens at night, at the weekend, at the first day of the child's illness or otherwise, then the Danish police are worse off than they are today. So I hope that the criminals will be detained in one of the other EU countries where the so-called QUEST system will soon be implemented. Here, then, the patrol police can directly search Europol's databases using a mobile phone or tablet as part of their task. It is so clever that you can even put your mobile phone directly on top of a passport and extract various information from it. This can of course be done in the context of foreign controls, border controls or controls on foreign persons related to the gang environment. In today's report, the National Police informs us that it is practically unmanageable to apply for postings in the EIS via the Watchtower Police Department in connection with the general control tasks of the patrol police. And it is therefore the expectation of the National Police that the patrol police will only ask for searches on the occasions that they have a very concrete suspicion, for example. cross-border crime. In other words, from systematically being able to check all persons or even people who just seem suspicious, this more difficult way of contacting someone else would require, and that would by its very nature mean that you would not systematically check that information, but would only do so if you had a direct concrete suspicion. I understand perfectly the need of the police to prioritise. It is a necessary evil and not a criticism of the police, but I think it is worrying that this should be the case when cross-border crime is as serious as it is in these years. And it really annoys me that we cannot give the police the best opportunities to protect the citizens and that we must waste taxpayers' money on some Molbo-like solutions. For the time being, we cannot do much more than follow developments closely, which we also have an agreement on here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and we must therefore be pleased that, after all, we managed to reach an agreement, although it is not to compare with a proper membership of Europol, which had been the best for Denmark and for Denmark's security. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170351	You're welcome. There are two inscriptions for short remarks. The first is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170359	It seems to me that the rapporteur is beating on a dead herring and is trying to squeeze the last drops of blood out of that herring, which has been lying like six, eight, ten days and rotted. In other words, the rapporteur says that it is pointing to this. I just can't figure out where it is. For now the rapporteur was kind enough to remind me of what was in this before, and I should therefore like to remind the rapporteur of the same thing this time. So, it says on page 2: "It is also clear from the statement that, in relation to access to Europol's databases, it is the opinion of the National Police that the agreement provides Danish police with access which is operationally equivalent to the direct access that the Danish police had until 1 May 2017.' I mean, where's the point? I'm full of that future music, but I don't understand it at all, because if you look at it today, I just don't see it coming. So would the rapporteur not like to tell us where, seen through today's spectacles, it is going to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170501	Almost isn't as good as quite, I guess we agree on that. The situation today is fairly satisfactory within normal working hours, I agree. Outside normal working hours there is a delay and there are searches that would have been made, which are not done. There can be no doubt about that. But I'm not gonna come here and claim that something has been blown up by terrorists or anything, or that paedophiles have fallen across the border. These aren't the scare pictures we're talking about. What I am saying is: this scheme is more difficult, it is more time-consuming and therefore resource-intensive. The police could use their powers better elsewhere if they had full and complete membership of Europol. The worst thing is, of course, future music, which is not some science fiction film, but which is a reality and which is being rolled out, namely to get direct access from the individual police cars, from border controls and other places where suspicious people could have been systematically checked if we had had full access and full membership of Europol. We do not have that and we must do as well as possible within the framework that exists. But that it's optimal, you can't say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170614	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170616	I would venture to say that it is, because you have to remember what the alternative was. The alternative would have been a yes that had given Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and others in the EU-enthusiastic people have access to hand over Danish sovereignty by a general majority in the Assembly Hall, and I would like to be freed from that future. I just want to hear from the rapporteur where it is said that there are searches that are not being carried out. Because what I'm reading is that there are searches that are being made. If they are not acute, they are made the next day. But I do not think I can read anywhere that it is said that there are some searches you would have done that you would not do in the evening hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170655	So this is a specific assessment: is a task of urgency or is it not? And if it is of an urgent nature, it is true that the search will then be carried out, and then there is a delay in how long it takes to get that information in. And since it is an estimate in each case, there will be searches that are only done the day after within normal working hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170718	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170722	Thank you. The praise I gave to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, unfortunately, I cannot give to the rapporteur of the Left. I'll tell you what. The Left rapporteur still sits away firmly planted high in the tree and therefore has to say things that are very strange. If sir... Jan E. Jørgensen believes that it is a major problem that you cannot search outside normal opening hours, why does Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen did not see a suggestion that the National Police should make full use of that agreement? Then you can search all the time. Why don't you do that? Well, the National Police don't think it's important, but sir. Jan E. Jørgensen thinks it's very important. Then why don't we get a proposal from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen? Maybe because it's not that important. I also have another question. - Sir... Jan E. Jørgensen tells us here how many people previously had the opportunity to apply directly to Europol's register? How many was that? I mean, when sir... Jan E. Jørgensen speaks, it sounds almost as if every policeman was allowed to. How many people were actually allowed to apply directly in Europol's register?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170828	No, I didn't say that. I say that when the QUEST solution is implemented, there will be direct search access with the individual officer on mobile device. As the system was before this was invented, where we had to hire people directly in Europol, about 100 officers were employed by the Danish police, who had direct access to the search. So 100 is more flexible and fast than 4, so I think Mr. Søren Søndergaard must agree with me. But it was not my party that went out and said that paedophiles would rush across borders and so on, if we did not vote 'yes', so I did not have the same need to ask for forgiveness as some of the other rapporteurs. I am talking about the fact that the solution that is now is not as good as it could have been, but of course the police have to assess in concrete terms whether it makes sense to have two men sitting all night long because there is sometimes a call. There they have estimated that the forces will be better spent on the cops in question getting their sleep and then doing police work the next day. I don't want to interfere with that, but of course it would be better to have direct access to the search 24-7. Even Enhedslisten cannot disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170940	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113170942	Now I have to say that the Left was also able to deliver in all sorts of doomsday prophecies, and they are now being continued in the same way as last year by saying that soon it will be quite disastrous and so on. I shall address that discussion in my rapporteur's speech in a moment. But I would like to say that I really think it is a very harsh criticism, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen travels by Danish police. Because if it were a real problem, if it meant anything at all to the fight against crime in Denmark, then of course the Danish police would take advantage of the agreement with Europol and not just have four employees. They wanted to make full use of it to combat crime. So they do not, and when they do not, I think it is very strange to hear the rapporteur of the Left stand and make it a huge problem and call it Molbo-like solutions, and what do I know? So it is not something that the Danish police see as such a major problem that they will take advantage of the opportunity that lies right ahead of them, namely to hire some more.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171036	That's molboyish. Well, that's like Mr. Søren Søndergaard, each time he went to Google, had to call a colleague or one down in the secretariat and ask him to do a search. Of course it could be done, but it is more troublesome than having direct search access. We can't disagree on that. As far as scaremongering is concerned, I am up against a true expert who thought, for example, in the election campaign that if we voted in favour of abolishing the legal reservation, it could mean that access to registered partnership in Denmark, that people of the same sex could marry each other, would be removed. So that's where I think I've met my master here in mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171114	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks at the moment. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171128	Thank you, Madam President. I mean, it's a bit of a repeat of last year's discussion. As has been said, there is not much new here. It could be that next time we meet, the circle of agreements would have to discuss whether we would necessarily have this discussion every year. We could, for example. say that we took it every two years or once in each parliamentary term, unless something new happened and a contracting party thought we should have it then we could take it, then no one would be prevented from doing so. But it's kind of weird that every single time we have to stand and say basically the same things and back to the same past, just like making the time go in here because nothing has really happened and so on. For the statement we have received from the National Police is at least at one point in my world absolutely shocking, and I mean that without making fun of it. I find it shocking that Europol shut down Denmark's access to the registers for a period from 17 October to 22 October. It was simply decided in Europol that Denmark could no longer be admitted, and why? It was said: it is because Denmark is a third country and third countries do not have direct access. Okay, exciting, because who makes such decisions in Europol? Yeah, it's probably not the cleaning assistant. It is probably not the electrician or the one who changes the bulbs and stands for the computers either. It is probably not they who make such decisions. Such decisions are, of course, taken by Europol's management. In other words, we have had a statement explaining that Europol's management does not know the rules governing Europol's work. I find that appalling. Well, it's not a question of calling Denmark and saying, "Hey, how is it?" You actually close for a number of days. Could it also be imagined that somebody was sitting in Europol and opening the registers because Saudi Arabia asked for a whole lot of information and then sent them some information, and then five days later remembered: well, we must not do that. I have to admit, I think this calls for an investigation. I would ask the Minister for Justice, when the Minister for Justice comes up here, to explain how it could be that Europol's management could show this kind of total lack of knowledge of the rules and shut down a member's access to the registers. It could have had serious consequences in a worst case scenario. We hope it has not, but theoretically it could have been a situation in which there would have been a need for that information at short notice. In relation to what is now in place, there are no problems in the real world. There is something that can be done a little bit faster if you want to hire some more people for it etc., but there really are no problems. The report also makes it clear that there are no problems in relation to the past; it works largely in the same way. That is also why we see Europol in a statement they have made about cooperation between Europol and Denmark, as it writes that this cooperation has shown that there is a clear sign that Denmark still benefits from the Europol hose cooperation as any other Member State. If I am to try to translate it, this means that the cooperation that exists is a clear example of Denmark still benefiting from Europol cooperation in line with all other Member States. That is what Europol says, and that is basically what we have in this statement. Then it is true that there are some challenges for the future, and there is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen one point. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen can hardly wait for the future in which every police officer across the EU and also a little outside their handheld mobile phone can go in and retrieve information about all sorts of things between heaven and earth, so people's gender, people's shoe size, people's car and everything. How good that will be! And it is not only the police officers, because we know that in Denmark border controls are also the Home Guard and others, so they must, of course, also be given the opportunity to do so. So we are talking about millions of people in the European Union who must have direct access to Europol's databases and retrieve information. This is gonna be great! I'm just gonna say to Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, that there will be a discussion before the time of register security. There will also be a discussion on how appropriate it is to combat crime. For let us now imagine the situation that someone must have transported a batch of cannabis from Malaga to Denmark in a car. There's one of the things you're most interested in, of course to get that car wanted, and I don't want anyone to go in and look up a register whether that car is wanted or not. After all, we must not turn the internal market into an internal market for crime; it is abundant in itself. Finally, I would just like to say that we have a great debate waiting. It has not been taken up in this statement. It is not the task either, but there is a great debate waiting for us to do what we do when Britain leaves. Britain is one of the major contributors and imagining a Europol without Britain's participation is very difficult. And that is why Denmark should know its place and raise the discussion on how to conduct police cooperation between democratic countries, where there is register security, which involves everyone and where an entry or entry ticket to the internal market does not necessarily have to be a condition. It must also be possible for Switzerland to participate; it must be possible for Norway to be a full member; it must be possible for Britain to be a member, etc. We very much hope to have that discussion before too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171751	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171754	Thank you. Well, I am simply pleased to see the transformation that has taken place with Mr. Søren Søndergaard and his party to be the police's best friend and close ally, we must understand. Because when I read from the program that Mr. Søren Søndergaard himself has been involved in adopting, from the Enhedslisten, which I believe has been abolished since then, one can see what one of the most important things for Enhedslisten is:•Before all the dissolution of the police and the military, which has time and again proved to be the last, far too effective, ally of capital. A socialist society cannot simply take over the present state, which is fundamentally designed to organise and defend a capitalist society. This applies to the Danish state, and even more comprehensively to the EU state under construction. It must be nice music in the ears of a revolutionary. I can almost hear how much the rapporteur smiles.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171851	I'm not quite sure I got the question. I mean, was it sweet music to my ears? Then I can say that the very idea contained in the programme that was about the possibility of organising the fight against crime in a different way is a very interesting idea. Well, at least I think so. And what is at stake is how to prevent a standing police from being used for some tasks that are not about combating crime is a very interesting idea. But the reality is that what we concluded in the discussion we had in the Enhedslisten was that we could not give the answer to how it was going to happen. And when we could not give the answer to how it was going to happen, it was totally absurd to raise that discussion. So I fully agree with what is in our current Jan E. Jørgensen probably has and can therefore now quote from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171950	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113171951	An interesting thought, one says a little too interesting, I think. But it is of course very significant that Enhedslisten could not give a concrete answer on how it should work, because Enhedslisten's privilege is that you can criticise, but rarely place anything instead. With regard to this future music that we are talking about with QUEST, I can only say that the National Police have stated that, with regard to the implementation of QUEST, Germany, Estonia, Spain, Finland, Greece, Lithuania, Slovakia and Poland have had access to a test environment in QUEST. And the National Police have also announced that Estonia and Spain are expected to be able to operate the system as soon as possible. So QUEST and direct access to the police are in a much closer future than the Enhedslisten dream scenario of a police-free society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172041	Yes, and that's also why we changed our line so that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen did not use as an argument. But I would like to ask: what is it that you get access to via QUEST? Is that all the information? One of the few things I think is that it's two or three things you get access to via QUEST, i.e. when it gets rolled out, because it's still gone at the experimental stage, for example. information on weapons. And I'm sorry, what's the problem with, if you've got a weapon, contacting through the channels we can now contact through, and seeing if that weapon is wanted? What's the problem? Or does Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen say that you have to search for virtual It's completely ridiculous, to put it bluntly. And that's why that system works in relation to weapons 100 percent as well as QUEST is going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172140	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has written in for short remarks, so we will continue to speak with the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172150	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for the statement. After all, we have agreed to keep an eye on the situation of the Danish police, after we concluded a cooperation agreement with Europol. It is a good thing that we are doing this, so we are keeping an eye on it, because it is of course important that the Danish police have a satisfactory operational benefit from the agreements we make. The Danish police must, of course, have the tools they need when it comes to combating cross-border crime, and they do. That is what the statement concludes. I am particularly sensitive to the fact that the agreement we have with Europol has resulted in a way that means that Denmark has retained the operational benefits of cooperation. That is very positive, and I welcome it, and I believe that the others do too. It was said when we had the debate that the Europol Agreement could present operational challenges, particularly in relation to our access to the EIS. That is why, of course, that part of the statement is also read with particular interest. And here the National Police today estimates that the arrangement that Denmark has is operationally satisfactory. That means it's working fine. It is also concluded that the agreement negotiated by Denmark puts us in a better position than the other third countries. In fact, we believe this in LA is an effort that should be appreciated. Summa summarum I think we have to say that when two parties have a mutual interest, and here it is about helping each other to combat international crime, we also find sensible solutions. There have, of course, been no actors in the field, and this has been one of our arguments all the way in this debate, which has a different interest than that the Danish police should be fully operational both to combat foreign crime in Denmark, but also to help our partners in other countries to combat crime. And it turns out that when you sit down and have to find solutions, that is also the sense that prevails. So again, thank you to the Minister of Justice for the statement. I hope, and I also believe, that we will have more of this kind of positive statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172420	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so the next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mr President. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172429	Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here for the first time when we discuss this subject. Several people have been through it several times, and I can see that I am in retail human hands, in other words as new legal rapporteur, in such a circle of EU rapporteurs who are really down in matter. I will start a little round and say that when we had the referendum, we said in the alternative: yes, but... not everyone understood clearly what we meant by it, but it was actually a clear expression that we wanted to vote for it in the referendum. We would also like to see more reservations removed, so we would actually like to go even deeper into European cooperation. As far as Europol is concerned, we, like most rapporteurs today, are recording that things are going quite well, that is to say that this special agreement is going well. We support the special agreement that has been made. We also note that the National Police see challenges in the future. Nor can I give an estimate of how long it takes for the challenges to be tackled in such a serious way, but we note that they can come, and that is why it has not upset that we naturally want even closer cooperation and, of course, that we also support Europol. If I were to find something that could be said quite specifically to be a problem already, it would be a supranational problem, since our cooperation is becoming more and more integrated and that it would be a problem for us not to be on the board of directors with the right to vote in Europol. At least it could be. I cannot say whether this is a problem, but we would like to have a board of directors with the right to vote in that cooperation. If we had it, it could be that we could also address some of the privacy challenges that could arise on the day the scenario that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten came up with, that is, where you actually have an availability for a very, very large amount of information from your tablet or phone about people around Europe. We believe it is right to create the opportunity to get that information, but please, how important it is that we have a secure framework and some very, very well-appointed privacy by design systems or privacy by policy systems to handle them. So we say yes to the statement and thank you for having to be trained on some of the detailed questions that I did not know about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172634	There are two inscriptions for short remarks. The first is sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172640	Thank you for that, and here too I would like to thank you for a balanced approach to the result that came to us, although that was clearly what the alternative recommended. It was, after all, a completely open political discussion that was going on. However, the very thing about the votes on the Europol Management Board may be of limited scope, as there is never a vote on that board, so it will work out well enough. However, I have a slightly more detailed question on the subject of the future music which, according to the rapporteur from the Left, is actually just ahead of us, has already begun with a large number of countries: that is, with millions of officials around the European Union and in Europol having access directly to Europol's registers and searching for all sorts of information about people. Can one even imagine that a party such as the Alternative, which talks about preserving privacy and defending privacy, would help to approve such a scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172752	The GDPR has been introduced with a European level of ambition which, after all, far exceeds the Danish level in many areas, I would argue, and that is why I am quite confident that if you end up in a solution where you get that flexibility, it will also be a solution that meets the needs of the alternative, for good data processing, and this is indeed an area where I feel a little at home as an IT rapporteur. I can't tell you until I've seen what this solution is. I couldn't imagine it slipping through the needle's eye if the information wasn't taken really good care of. Then there was one more question in relation to the board post. Maybe I'm messing up a little bit. We would like our observer role to be in a different way, and I am not really aware of how often votes are taken and whether it has ever been on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172836	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172839	Thank you for the report on the defence of civil rights, I think it can be called, that all information cannot just be retrieved by anyone, and I would add: to combat crime effectively: for if all information that the police have about criminals can be retrieved by criminals, then it is not worth so much, for example. if it's almost just turned up on the local street corner, which cars are wanted. So this is a rather important matter, but in this context I would just like to know whether the alternative can promise, both in relation to its candidature to the European Parliament, but also in this Chamber, that this kind of thing will of course not be adopted and Denmark will not join without a very, very thorough discussion on the issue of register security and citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113172932	In respect of my colleague Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, who would normally be here and who is also appointed for the parliamentary elections, I would say that I think I can promise that. In other words, if it is a thorough discussion where we have to secure the framework at a level that matches our ideas on digital freedoms and the desire to be able to take data and put them into some silos, so that it is not just being pooled at the same time, it will be a promise from here. Rasmus Nordqvist has the right of veto on that but I would say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173000	The next brief remark is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173006	I think that Mr. René Gade expresses himself a little bit unclear, so it's not to get Mr. René Gade in trouble, it's just to understand what the alternative wants when I ask this question. How important is it for the alternative to obtain the right to vote on a board where you never vote? Could it, for example? trigger a call from the Alternative for a new referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173036	No, I tried to respond to the criticism of my possibly puny choice of words. When I said that we would like to have the right to vote on the board, it was probably just because I usually deal with boards where there is also a right to vote or a resignation. If that is not the case, and frankly I am not aware of it in this area, then of course it does not matter very much. But our observer role must be anything else equal, as I have at least experienced on other boards here in the Folketing, be different from an accomplished role, and we would like to have an accomplished role. That's it. But a referendum on that mandate? I dug it myself for a long time to find the argument when I looked it through, but no, it may not be a referendum on that mandate or with that need.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173113	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173116	I'd just like to know now for mr. René Gade also said that the rapporteur would like that observer's post to be different, because we have full speaking rights and so on. on that board, so I just can't see why we have to trample on an observer post on a board where we have exactly the same rights as everyone else, except that we can't vote, but since they never vote, it doesn't matter. So what is it, sir? René Gade wants something different?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173153	It was an example of something that would be different like some of the others thought examples of what could happen in the future. This is factually an observer role, and we could have an accomplished role. Here in the Folketing I have experienced it in the DIPD area, where we also do not have a completed membership on the board of the Alternative. We are also drumming for that, and we would really like all parties to have it. I am even in the process of drawing up a motion for a resolution on how to perhaps get the accomplished role, and I promise that there are good arguments in it. I can only say here today that in fact there will be a difference between being an observer and being a full member. I cannot make any good arguments as to what else the big difference would be in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173232	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short comments at the moment. Then we go to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173245	Our usual rapporteur, Mrs Lotte Rod, is busy somewhere else in the House with one of her other rapporteurs, where there are also some activities going on, and that is why you have to settle for me in this House. In the Radical Left, of course, we would have liked Denmark to have joined Europol, and we would have liked to have seen the whole legal reservation removed, but that was not the way the referendum went, and now we are trying to see to what extent the Danish police can still use Europol. As several rapporteurs have said, things are going very well, as they are at present, but I note a quote from the report by the National Police, which I will just read out here, which actually covers very well what is also the opinion of the Radical Left, and now I quote: "It is, however, the opinion of the National Police that the lack of direct access, in particular the lack of access to QUEST and the inability to include data from Europol directly as a supporting data source in the analytical and proactive crime-fighting work of the police, will, within a very short period of time, significantly restrict the ability of the Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared to Europol members. That is therefore an important limitation. We see no reason why we want to end up in a situation in which the Danish police's ability to combat cross-border crime must be faced with a significant restriction, and so we still wanted to see Denmark take due care and become a full member of Europol so that we could avoid that situation. I do not really have much more to say in relation to the other rapporteurs. I think that quote is very good for why we would like us to become a full member of Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173452	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173457	Now it was the Radical Left and I am sure the Radical Left will be thrilled that I say perhaps the most harsh of the rhetoric in relation to what would happen, if the Danes did not now agree to abolish the legal reservation. And that is why I just have to ask the rapporteur whether it is the rapporteur's view that the children's bells have become more happy since 1 May 2017. Then I will also have to ask the rapporteur something else: is it the Radical Left's view that we should have a referendum now on the abolition of the reservation of law? In other words, if the Radical Left had 90 seats in the Folketing, would a referendum now be held on the abolition of the reservation of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173551	I'd rather not judge how happy children's lookers are. But what Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth refers to the fact that it is quite correct that we have an agreement which, according to this statement, says that at this stage we are doing the job in relation to what the police are saying here. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, according to the police's own assessment, there are challenges and a significant reduction in their opportunities, and we do of course think this is a bad idea. We will be ready for a referendum. But we will also be ready, if we can find a large enough majority, to implement it if that is an option. We think that the most important thing is that we join Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173640	Yeah, that's fair enough, of course. But would the rapporteur not at least acknowledge that if the rapporteur is going to start a new vote on abolishing the reservation of law, the great argument that must persuade the Danes to do away with it will be hardly on the part of the Radical Left in the light of what we see today, Denmark's attachment to Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173716	I can tell you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth that we have not drawn up a strategy for an election campaign for a referendum which so far does not seem to be going to happen. The fundamental argument that the Radical Left is opposed to all the reservations we have is that the things that will be adopted in the European Union will affect Denmark. Our citizens, our businesses are being affected by what is being decided in the European Union, and that is why we think it is a basic good idea that we help to decide the things that still affect us. That is our fundamental argument against the reservations, and I think that will also be the strategy we will choose if such a vote should take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173754	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173758	Thank you. Of course, I respect the fact that it is not the rapporteur of the Radicals who is usually there and will not, as it were, question anything in detail about the past and progress and the agreement that has been reached. But I would really like to hear when the rapporteur himself chooses to read out the quotation as to how the Radical Left is doing in the future, when we have to take a position on setting up, because we will have to take a position on that at some point... a register containing all sorts of information about people who maybe a million people in Europe can search and where, without insulting anyone, we will say that if you have $100, any criminal or other can go and bribe themselves to search that register. Well, is that a vision for the Radical Left? Or does the Radical Left not also see enormous problems in such a register, which must first be clarified and which it will take a long time politically to clarify both in the European Parliament and in the Folketing and between the governments of the countries before we can put this into practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173906	Those are some excellent remarks, sir. Søren Søndergaard comes along and has also joined some of the colleagues, and that is precisely why we think we should be involved. That is precisely what is at the heart of why the Radical Left wants to join the European Union and then get rid of these reservations. Because then we have the opportunity to influence that kind of thing. Because, of course, if it is true that there will be millions who will be able to come in and look into data about Danish citizens too, then we must try to ensure that this is done in a proper way with a justified suspicion and with courts inside and also try to limit that it is going to be some mass surveillance. But that is precisely why we need to be involved in judicial cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113173950	In the first place, there will be access to everything that has been inserted by Denmark in the register, and not all Danish citizens, of course, but that means that the radical rapporteur is also touching something very central, so that we will see the countries start to limit how much they put in. That's what's gonna happen. However, I take full note of the remark that this is why the Radicals want to be fully involved in the European Union and to abolish all reservations, whether military or EMU, etc. etc., and that is just where the political difference is. However, I welcome the commitment, as I understood it, that, when the time comes, when this seems to be practical, we can of course also discuss the question of data security.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174036	I can fully confirm that, and I also agree with the interpretation of the disagreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174043	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174049	It is good that we are taking stock, because this is about the security and security of our citizens. Whether it has become more difficult for the Danish police to tackle cross-border crime is, of course, difficult to make up. But what we can see is that there has been a great willingness to pragmatism, both from Denmark and the countries with which we work. Fortunately, we can also see that the electrician drawing, which now covers cooperation between the police authorities in the European Union, works. SF recommended that Denmark had decided to be full members. That didn't happen. On the other hand, we can also see that the bridge now built for Europol cooperation must be worked on to make it as stable and strong as possible. And so far, it looks like it's holding up, and that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174141	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174143	I don't think SF should be cheated on too little praise from Enhedslisten. We also think that the SF rapporteur made a very balanced speech here. The only person who has not done so is the rapporteur of the Left, but everyone else has dealt with the reality of this. We think that is very positive. But I would also like to ask Mr. Karsten Hønge about that vision, which in particular the Left's rapporteur made a lot of sense should lie right in front of us, and after which any police officer or border guard or whatever it is, gendarme, something or other around the whole EU area and in countries outside the EU may also, but at least in the EU area, be able to search directly in a handheld tablet for information about citizens entered in the registers. Is this a vision that the SF imagines being carried out without much, very sure and firm guarantees that it will not be abused, both, what to say, unintentionally and by criminal elements?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174251	I note with concern today in the calendar that Mr. Søren Søndergaard I must live with it. On the other hand, I fully agree with the concerns that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has over the vision, or whatever we can call it, which came from Mr. Søndergaard. Jan E. Jørgensen. If that future should be within reach, then we must ensure that we do so in order to protect ourselves from the abuses that are obviously within the same range. SF is very concerned about civil rights and IT security.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174321	Then there is a question from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174325	I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, that he should prefer to be reviled by Mr. Søren Søndergaard rather than praise. We're used to it, too!).
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174333	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174344	Thank you. It has now been just over a year since we made the agreement with Europol. The agreement has now been implemented and we now have an overview of one year of practical experience. In the report, the Danish police are reviewing their practical experience. The statement shows that Denmark's opportunities have generally been preserved, and that is good. It shows that we have a good deal. It has been the ambition to maintain close cooperation with Europol and it remains unchanged. For example: Danish police have 24-7 access to share information with Europol. However, the Danish police have been excluded from access to Europol's database for a period of five days, which was due to an error by Europol, and this must not happen. The statement also confirms well-known limitations, which we also mentioned in last year's statement, and these are the limitations that are about to come out of the agreement and to come up with a new agreement like a third country. The report mentions, for example, that the Danish police have not had the opportunity to integrate parts of Europol's data into the analysis platform POL-INTEL. This cannot be done within the framework of the agreement. The consequence here is, for example, that travelling criminals and sex offenders who would otherwise have entered into specific investigations have not entered into them. The report describes that in some cases, as it says, it delays and makes it difficult, for example, for border control work in relation to the past, and that Danish police and immigration control departments at borders no longer have access to Europol's common database. The police cannot use Europol's information system as a fixed data source in the police's important new IT system POL-INTEL, which has been called a super weapon in the fight against, among other things. cross-border crime. Although, according to the National Police, the scheme is well-functioning and satisfactory, Denmark's withdrawal from Europol has had a few consequences. Until 1 November 2017, inter alia: the police's immigration control departments and PET have direct access to Europol's databases, but now they have to request searches via Europol and wait for answers, among other things. may delay border controls. In the statement, the National Police warns that Danish police will miss out on a future mobile search access to Europol databases and that within a very short period of time this will mean, as they write, a significant limitation of Danish police's ability to combat cross-border crime...... All in all, however, it is a fine statement that describes the experiences of the Danish police in a factual way during the first year, which shows that we have actually reached a good agreement. It's not like being a hundred percent, but it's the best we can get out of standing outside. So, all in all, we support the statement because, in my view, it is objective and, of course, we must keep an eye on cooperation and how it develops in the future. Because cross-border crime has a high priority for us Conservatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174722	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we've come to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113174732	Thank you. And thank you for the many positive statements that have been made about the statement. This year we are in exactly the same place as last year, as in the form of the debate. All parties in the Folketing agree to apply for the agreement, and we support it in this way, but we will still have a lively debate, because of course we will get there from each of our starting points, and that is enough. Last year, when we took stock of the situation of the Danish police vis-à-vis Europol, the agreement had only been in force six months. As a consequence of the transitional arrangement, the Danish police had continued to have direct access to Europol's information system until 1 November 2017. In other words, we did not yet have the full picture of how the agreement would be implemented. We know that now. The Europol agreement has now been implemented in its entirety, and the report examines Danish police's experience with the agreement in practice. The statement shows that the Europol Agreement has been implemented in such a way that Denmark's operational benefits from Europol cooperation are preserved as far as possible. That is very positive. After all, when we concluded the agreement, it was crucial that the Danish police were able to maintain as far as possible the cooperation with Europol at that time. The statement confirms that we have largely succeeded in maintaining the status quo. It can be seen among other things. Danish police are invited to participate in new operational analysis projects, Danish police participate in board meetings and Danish police continue to have 24-7 access to share information with Europol. I welcome that. This confirms that we basically have a good agreement with Europol • an agreement that ensures that Danish police can continue to be close to Europol's cooperation. The report describes the situation of the Danish police vis-à-vis Europol, as the situation is, no more and no less. From day one it has been clear to all of us that Denmark as a third country would not have the same rights as the members of Europol. It is known material, it is self-evident, and it is a basic condition for the Danish police's current cooperation with Europol. Having said that, I can understand if you are surprised when you read the part of the statement which describes that for five days this autumn the Danish police experienced more limited access to Europol databases than usual. The more limited access was the consequence of a decision taken by Europol, a decision which affected all the third countries with which Europol has concluded a cooperation agreement. As you know, Denmark is a third country in relation to Europol, and we were therefore initially affected by Europol's decision. However, Denmark should never have been included in the decision. We should not do so because Denmark's agreement with Europol has taken into account the procedural requirements to which Europol's decision relates. Europol therefore corrected the error and after five days we returned to the normal procedures for cooperation between Denmark and Europol. In the five days, unfortunately, the Danish police had only limited access to receiving information from Europol with the necessary speed and flexibility. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with that. However, in cooperation, which is also based on mutual trust in each other, I must have faith that Europol has learned from the error and that we are not experiencing anything similar again. The report also describes that Denmark's withdrawal from Europol means that Danish police will not have the same tools in the fight against cross-border crime as the police in the other EU countries. For the time being, it is a question of the Danish police not being able to implement Europol's new system QUEST, which will allow Member States to introduce more flexible and quick access to share information in the EIS, for example by allowing the operational staff in the front line to search the EIS via mobile phones. The trend is also against the fact that notices in the EIS are not only made by officers sitting behind a computer in an office but are also made on the street as part of ordinary police shops. We cannot take part in this development. It's also known substance for everyone here. I believe that many in this Chamber will be interested in when QUEST will then go from being a project for the future to becoming a reality. Time is a relative size. Even when we concluded the agreement, the assessment was that QUEST would become a reality within a very short period of time. It repeated last year's statement. QUEST had then moved from the desk to a pilot project. This year's announcement from Europol is that two Member States will soon be operating the system. Again this year the statement therefore states that QUEST will be a reality in a very short time. It may be that the wordings should be looked at in the future. Since the conclusion of the agreement, there has been a movement towards the time when QUEST goes into the air. The time assessments have therefore been maintained in a very short time. Based on information provided by Europol, it is estimated that QUEST will be operational soon, not in all countries from the start and not with access to all information, but QUEST will become a reality. Denmark will not have access to this. However, we have and will continue to have access to Europol's databases around the clock. That is absolutely crucial. The report describes how the Danish police have chosen to put this access into practice. The report shows that the Danish police outside normal working hours make a concrete assessment of whether or not a notice in Europol's databases is urgent. In cases where the notice is not urgent, it shall be published only within normal working hours and by the Danish-speaking Europol staff. It's a self-chosen solution. Following the agreement, the National Police can send requests for searches at any time of the day via the National Police Office's 24-hour operating centre to Europol. The National Police also do so in cases where the search is urgent. The National Police may also choose to have additional Europol staff to serve Denmark, so there will be round-the-clock staffing of Europol staff who can make notices on behalf of Denmark. At present, it is the opinion of the National Police that there is no need to change the practice of posting outside normal working hours, as the existing practice is well-functioning. The National Police are continuously monitoring developments, and should additional Europol staff prove necessary to ensure satisfactory operation of the Danish police, the agreement also allows us to upgrade from the current four Europol staff to eight staff. However, the practice of posting outside normal working hours must not be confused with the National Police's assessment that the special arrangements of the agreement in relation to Danish police's access to search in the EIS may in some cases delay and make it difficult, for example. border control work compared to the situation before 1 November 2017. Whether there are four, six or eight Europol staff to serve the Danish police, the agreement involves a longer procedure for those parts of the police who had direct access to the EIS prior to 1 November 2017. That doesn't change the number of employees. However, it is crucial that the National Police continue to consider that the special arrangements for Europol staff to be posted in the EIS on behalf of the Danish police in general are operationally satisfactory. This is because the Danish police have not experienced within the last year that the longer procedures have had operational significance. The report describes the experience of the Danish police in the last year and, as I have said before, I am pleased that we have agreed that an annual review of the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol should be carried out. Although the debates may be similar, this gives us a good opportunity to take stock of the situation and have the opportunity to discuss whether the Danish police continue to have the best possible tools available in the fight against cross-border crime. The fight against serious cross-border crime is a priority. We therefore keep a close eye on the fact that the Danish police continue to be close to Europol's cooperation and how cooperation develops. In the meantime, I think we should welcome the fact that we have managed to reach a good agreement with Europol. Denmark has a very special relationship with Europol. Europol's own evaluation of the agreement concludes that Denmark has a better agreement with Europol than any other third country and that Denmark is a special partner. We want to maintain this special status stubbornly. I am sorry if this speech becomes such a very slavish review, but I think it is a statement. It may be a little boring, but you'll have to live with it. But I kind of thought we should take that step by step, and I've tried to do that as loyally as I can to the statement we've got from the National Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113175636	We live well with that. Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113175639	It was an excellent statement • praise to the Minister. It's all against one here. It was a very well - balanced and sober statement, as to what the facts are. So we can only back that up. But I have two questions. One question is about the error that occurred. It is fine that there has been a mistake, and it is fine that the Minister says that we do not expect that error to repeat itself. But how could it come about? So at what level in Europol has anyone made such a decision showing that they do not know the basis for Europol's work? It's kind of interesting. And does the Minister know whether any concrete consequences have been taken of this? But at what level in Europol was that decision taken? The second question I have is this: the statement says, and it has also been mentioned here, that there have been six meetings of the Board of Directors. Can the Minister tell us how many of the six meetings of the Board of Directors may have been voted on?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113175740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113175741	As far as I am aware, we have attended all the meetings of the Board of Directors and there has been no vote at any of the meetings. As far as the first question is concerned, I have to answer as quickly as I can and as best I can. Up to this statement, the National Police are asking Europol a number of questions, and in the series of questions asked by the National Police, there is a doubt on the part of Europol whether, in view of the questions asked by the National Police, the necessary consent declarations are actually made by individual countries to enable us to obtain the information. Because it is the case that each country has to give it. Then you get into doubt, and when you get into doubt, you choose to ask the legal service, and when you ask the legal service, you shut down for safety reasons. There, of course, the National Police say that we believe that Denmark believes that we are right and that we have an agreement on this. It also concludes that we have and that there has been a mistake, that it is part of the agreement that no consent should be obtained every time, and that is why we are reopening. So what has happened is a clear mistake. That is the best answer I can give, and as best I can, here from the platform. But that is simply what has been the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113175859	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113175901	Well, it's a little more than a mistake. It's a worrying mistake. And the reason why this is a worrying mistake is, of course, that for six days there have been doubts in Europol as to what was the basis on which Europol worked. I think that's a long time when we're talking about an organization. In other words, we have heard long speeches from people who say that the one-minute delay in getting some information could be completely disastrous and so on, and then we are talking about shutting down all information for six days. So, sorry, what does it take 1 hour or 2 or 5 hours to get an answer if you can shut down for 6 days? That's why that mistake is more than just a mistake. This is a very worrying mistake, and I think that we can do so in writing, but we may need to clarify at what level in Europol that error was accepted and accepted. I don't suppose it's the electrician or the level you've said: okay, we're just pulling the plug to Denmark. It must have been relatively high up, and how high up it has been says something about the scale of the problem. And if it has not been high up, it certainly says something about something that we should perhaps discuss with Europol, namely how decisions can be taken in that organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113180022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113180023	I can't stand here and tell you exactly where it's been. I do not think Europol is very proud of this either, if I am to be honest. It is a mistake that has happened, a regrettable mistake, and fortunately it has been reopened again. If you're gonna find a light in the dark by this mistake... sometimes you can turn things on your head... you can say that it's actually nice enough that if the system is in doubt about whether they give a country the right information or give it too much... then they shut down until they've made sure they have the right legal basis. I don't think that's the great consolation for Mr. Søren Søndergaard, but if you had to find a light in the dark, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113180101	There are no more brief comments. I thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113180116	I would remind you that you have been sitting here a long way in the Chamber as part of the new system, and now you are asked to roll back into your own seats for the debate we are going to have here. The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113180149	Thank you for the floor. After all, this is not the first time we have dealt with a proposal like this in this Chamber, and most of you may also remember that I was concerned about the proposal at the time. However, I would like to admit that my view of the proposal today may be much more nuanced than a year and a half ago, and I shall come back to that. Rape is, after all, one of the most disgusting and insulting crimes that exist. I'm sure we can all agree on that quickly. In my optics, concern for the victims is one of the most important tasks of the legal system, and that is why we must also make every effort to do better in cases of rape. We owe this to all the victims who have been subjected to such serious attacks. The government has already done a lot to strengthen the fight against rape. I would like to mention the 2016 act of respect for rape victims, where we have taken a first step to improve police handling of rape reports; and the tightening of the level of rape penalties, which means that perpetrators are punished much harder than in the past. We are still not in the finish line, I recognise that. In my opinion, we can still improve on preventing rape from taking place at all. It can be better and it must be better, and that is why I have also launched some new initiatives. As most people are probably aware, at the beginning of October I set up a panel of experts, which I expect a great deal of. The panel shall examine cases of rape in a broad sense. They must look at the victims' way through the system, they must look at the prevention of rape and the over-representation of foreigners as perpetrators in rape cases. The panel consists of a number of professional experts who, with their respective backgrounds, can contribute with different views on the issues, and in addition the National Police and the National Attorney also sits at the table. The panel will come up to spring 2019 with good suggestions and ideas for me, which we can continue to work on. In parallel with this work, I have asked my officials to examine how our legislation can be improved. Recent criticism has been levelled at our legislation, namely whether it now ensures that rapists are convicted as much as possible today. I can't ignore that, and that's why I've started another job. One of the most important things I have asked the Ministry to look at is whether the definition of rape in the criminal code should be changed. Because I have been very impressed when organisations and particularly the victims tell me how, in their view, a change in the criminal code could lead to better legal certainty for the victims. For the purposes of this work, we are in the process of gaining experience from abroad. We are looking at what the countries have been thinking about their rape legislation, and we are looking at how the legislation works in practice. For, of course, if some countries do better, we must be inspired. There may be some who would criticise the fact that we are again gaining experience from other countries, and it is also true that the Ministry of Justice has previously asked some countries about their rape legislation. However, as in Denmark, rape is also a subject that is debated diligently in other countries, and this means that legislation is constantly changing. For example: Sweden changed its definition of rape on 1 July of this year, which is why I found it most right that we obtain new information so that we get an updated picture, as updated as possible. I would like to emphasise that the work on looking at the criminal law provision on rape is a clue that runs independently of the work of the panel of experts. Perhaps this has not been quite clear in the reference to the initiatives that I have initiated. Having said that, it would of course be appropriate to hear the opinion of the panel of experts on what should be taken into account when changing the criminal code's rape clause. And if the expert panel should have good input, we will, of course, involve them in our deliberations. At the same time, it is also important to me that the legislative issue should also be discussed with an even wider circle, among other things. The courts. After all, what is at stake is that the rules that we adopt should also be applicable in practice. Common to the work of the panel of experts and the study of our legislation is that we need to think carefully and find the right solutions. I would rather work takes a little longer, but on the other hand, good and workable solutions result where we come all the way around. This does not mean that the work has to be delayed, because of course we also need to act quickly, especially in the interests of the victims. I am sure that all of us in this Chamber, without exception, are concerned with doing what we can to hold rapists accountable and to ensure that the victims are treated with dignity and respect, and I recognise the good intentions of the authors of the motion for a resolution that we are debating today. As I began by saying, I myself have moved since we last dealt with a similar proposal in this Chamber. The work that I have set in motion bears witness to this, and it is a job that the government wants to wait for the results before we want to play out with a proposal to amend the penal code on rape. Because I would like to stress once again that it is important for me that we find some good and useful solutions, and I hope that the proposers, although they will not be satisfied, nevertheless understand that this is what we have set in motion. That is why we cannot support the resolution, but I look forward to presenting the results of our work to improve the handling of rape cases for all of you and to the good discussions we hope to have at the time when we are not just going to talk about legislation, but we also need to talk about whether we are doing this all the way: how are we going to be received when you come and want to report it here? How are we supposed to work on that? How is it we can do something extra for the victims so we get all the way around? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113180810	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113180816	Thank you to the Minister, and thank you also to the Minister for having moved on to this point. I appreciate that, and I think there are a lot of people both outside and in this hall who are happy about it. But we're gonna have to bring the minister all the way. What I cannot help thinking about when I hear the Minister say that we have to wait for this work is: what exactly is it in the resolution that makes it impossible to adopt it, gain experience and then develop the concrete model? The motion for a resolution says that we must have a rape law based on consent, but leaves it up to the government to find the concrete model for this. So it is not a paragraph that we are voting on specifically, but it is whether our legislation should be based on consent, so that we should say yes and there is a requirement that we should ensure that the other person wants to do what you do with his body, or whether we should maintain the current legislation. So why can the Minister and the Government not recognise the need for new legislation by voting through it and then gain experience and develop how it is to be implemented in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113180931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113180933	It is because, with the work that I have started, as I also said, I actually have an honest and real desire that we look at it all around, that we not only come up with a legislative proposal, but also look at how we in a single package make it better for the victims. I have also heard some victims come and say something about, if you have to report this, how you are then met: what are some situations they are in, and can we do something better there? Then it is true that we are in the process of gaining some experience. However, I do not want to lay down exactly how a model of consent is to be dealt with. You can also find judges who are very concerned about how this is going to be. And before I just say yes, I'd like to learn more about it. And I have to admit that I have had a very black-and-white attitude to this before with consent, because what did it mean, you should have a note in your pocket, and all that, but I recognise that we simply have to go a little more into this and discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181030	Is there a follow-up question? You have to push in if you want a follow-up comment. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181036	Okay, after seven years in the Folketing, you learn something new. I'll push the button next time. Honestly, sir. Minister, it is not sustainable to say that because you want to go all the way around, you do not want to start somewhere. Now, the best thing is not to become the worst enemy of the good, and we cannot say that we will solve all the problems in the field of rape before we can do anything, because then I can promise the Minister that we will never move forward. I would like to ask the Minister: what could the panel of experts set up by the Minister say that could cause the Minister not to produce a consent-based legislation? Is there anything that the panel of experts can say that can make the Minister not make a consent-based legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181127	I simply cannot answer that, because it all depends on how we get things together. I certainly do not feel that today's date is ready enough to say fully how such a thing should be put together. We have now started a more detailed consultation in countries such as the United States. Sweden, Norway, England, Germany and Iceland on their reflections and their experience with the legislation and there may also be a need to ask some questions and these countries have been selected because they have just a rape law based on lack of consent. I just need to be absolutely sure where we stand before I just say that we do exactly what Enhedslisten says. It must surely be about finding a common solution to this. I actually think I'm trying to be very accommodating.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181216	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181219	Thank you. I don't want the minister to get it wrong. In the Enhedslisten we greatly appreciate the fact that the Minister now has a much more nuanced attitude on this issue. But there's just something that I still don't quite understand. I hear the Minister replying to Mrs Pernille Skipper that a model cannot be firmly established. Peace be with it, but can the Minister then tell us whether the Minister wants a consent-based model? So, let's put a little away how the model should be screwed up, but should it be a model based on lack of consent?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181256	Then it is just that you quickly get to where you say that it will immediately be what you think will be right. I just need to know exactly what the consequences are. How is that supposed to be? And what does that mean? I'm standing here exhibiting my lack of knowledge about this, but that's also why there's a lot of work going on, because I actually think we should do something in this area. We have to do better, but how a model is to be screwed up, I can't say. If we come to the conclusion that we may have some ideas when we speak of consent, then I would also like to have a dialogue with people who are what to say close to and help the victims. I would also like to know what the lawyers and judges think about this. There are also many opinions in those circles about how to put something like this into practice, and that is just why I am not saying that I have the solution right here, because I do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181400	I do not think I am asking the Minister for a solution here and now either. I would ask the Minister to indicate whether the Minister believes that Denmark should have a rape legislation based on a lack of consent or, today, a law based on compulsion. Then we can discuss the model when the panel of experts is finished at some point. We can discuss at another time what model we should have. I am just asking for a clear indication of what our criminal law should look like in Denmark. Should it be about lack of consent, or should it be about coercion?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181435	But that is what is all the hops in this, even when I talk about the nuances. I have realized that we may have to go from one to the other. The reason I seem a little groping here is that I am very, very careful, because I know that it can mean a lot to me what I stand here and say. I can see that we may need to keep looking at it, but we just need to be absolutely sure what we are doing. That is why I absolutely do not give any guarantee or promises of anything other than that this is going to be thorough and proper and that I have an honest interest in us doing a good job on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181506	The next question is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181511	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is aware of the Istanbul Convention, which I believe is also described in the motion for a resolution, and which recommends that we have some kind of consent-based rape legislation, because, as Mrs Lund says, it is legislation based on coercion or consent. I fully understand that the Minister is open and is actually in a learning process here, but what is it then that the Minister will not promise the people and the citizens and the rest of the Folketing who are listening right now? Will the Minister say whether the Minister thinks that we should give women the right to their own bodies, that we should ensure that there is consent, regardless of what sexual activity is taking place in our country? That is really just what is being asked, and that is what we want the Minister's recognition or reflection on. So can the Minister please clarify what kind of relations it is that should give a point of reference for our citizens in this country with regard to legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181627	I do not think there is a single citizen in this country who follows politics and who doubts what I think about punishing people who do not behave properly. If there's a crime like this, they're gonna have to be punished hard. What I just don't want to go into here is to start fabulating about what kind of rules it is, how the rules could be, because if I knew that, and if I had a clear direction for it, and if I knew exactly what it would be, then there is no need to spend a lot of time collecting experiences from other countries and becoming wiser and setting up a panel of experts, which is supposed to come up with some really good ideas for us. I just feel like I'd like to make sure that we do this properly when we get to do something, because it's not more than approx. Two and a half years ago, as I remember, we were at least looking at this area last time and sharpening the penalties. Now I think that when we look at it again, we should look at it all around, and it should not just be about legislation specifically here, but also about how the organisations work, how the police work, what we do for the victims, and I think that is worth waiting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181735	There are no more questions. Then I'll thank the Minister for Justice. We move on to the list of rapporteurs, and the first is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113181748	Thank you. Sex without consent is rape. Hopefully there are only a few who disagree with it but it still reflects our legislation not clear and clear, and that is why we are standing here again. We have dealt in the past with a resolution on consent-based rape legislation, which was unfortunately voted down and where the misunderstandings about the proposal were very many. That is why I would like to talk a little about what consent-based rape legislation is actually about. Consent-based rape legislation, to which this motion for a resolution refers, simply means that the law states that sexual intercourse is punishable or otherwise engages in sexual activities with a person who does not participate voluntarily. Let me make it clear: consent-based legislation does not mean reversal of the burden of proof. It will still be the prosecution's job to prove that the accused has committed an attack, that is to say that the defendant has committed an act which he has taken because it is typically someone he had to realize the woman was not willing to do. This shifts the focus by changing the subject of proof, because it does not matter what the subject of proof is based on. No, we should not expect a change to consent-based rape legislation to make the big difference in the outcome of the cases, but it can make a big difference in the way the cases are conducted. This applies both to the way in which questions are asked, particularly to the way in which women and the injured are treated in court. The aim of rape legislation based on voluntaryness and consent is first and foremost to promote the perception of sex and gender roles, so that hopefully in the long run there will be fewer attacks on women. It is therefore a question of getting people to understand, whether they are in town, whether they are at home or elsewhere, that you should stop and be sure that the other person will participate in the act, as it were, voluntarily. In Denmark we lag behind. Ten countries in Europe have already amended their legislation, including Germany, England, Luxembourg, Belgium and Sweden, where rape is now defined on the basis of lack of consent. It should be quite clear, including in the legislation, that sex must be voluntary, and if it is not voluntary, it is rape. It is time for Denmark to recognise this in its legislation. With these words, I must say that the Social Democrats support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182020	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Peter Kofod as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182034	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting the motion for a resolution here with a new definition of rape in the penal code based on consent. Before the summer, we asked the Justice Minister to investigate this area carefully, find out what's going on in the countries around us. We had heard that Sweden had changed significantly in this area, and we were aware that in Great Britain there had been a model similar to what Enhedslisten is proposing here for a number of years, but that there were also other countries in Europe that had chosen a new course than that which has to be said to be the traditional one in this area. It is clear that when we ask the Minister for Justice to launch major initiatives the Minister also chose to set in motion a panel of experts, it goes without saying that we obviously have to wait for what the Minister comes to and can present us. I can therefore say in my introduction that our starting point is that we do not support the motion for a resolution, but instead that we are awaiting the statement that the Minister may at some point come and deliver in the Folketing, and, in the light of the experience gathered in other countries, on the basis of the considerations put forward by the panel of experts, we are therefore prepared to drag it back into the Parliamentary Chamber and take a new debate and see what it looks like. As we see here, there are some very big challenges in this area. This is not a new case because it has been there for many years. For many years there have been stories of very few convictions, a very large number of dark ones, few cases brought before a judge, and problems with the burden of proof. Especially the last one I will dwell on for a moment. Often it will be the case that it is words against words. We had a hope, when a conference was held recently at Christiansborg, that this would shed new light on whether we could do away with that word against the word situation, but unfortunately the conference brought the sad light on the ground, that the proposal here does not seem to bring up words against the word situation. We still want to go away in a very large number of cases in the situation we know from today, where the courts must sit and judge who is most credible, whom we trust most, and we cannot therefore immediately see that the proposal here is going to move very much. I can also see that this is what Professor Jørn Vestergaard has been out to say, and he has ended up having the opposite sign by saying that it may not have much meaning, and therefore the Folketing will be able to do so because the effect of it will be limited. That's another way of looking at it. But I find it difficult to see what change this will bring, if any change at all. So what can we do? I think there is a lot you can actually do that will have an effect. After all, we are regularly confronted with stories from the media about rape victims who have been mistreated by the authorities when they have approached them. They have not been taken care of, they have not received the help they are entitled to, and the cases have been started with a series of errors which have meant that they have fallen and have not even come before a judge. And that's not gonna work. One has to have a greater focus on the fact that these very cases must of course be properly started up, that the people who come and report a rape must be taken care of, if I may say so, that they must have someone to hold their hand all the way through this system so that these cases do not fall on the floor. So, yes, there are problems in this area, there is no doubt about that, and we are fully involved in looking at the whole area. As I can also understand, the Minister will at some point call for negotiations on this, and there we will of course be taking part. I also note that those who are usually called experts in this area are quite disagreeable. On the one hand, we have the Court of Justice, which says: No, no, no. On the other hand, we have large organisations that usually have a very good understanding of what they are doing and they say: yes, yes, yes. Then we have ended up in this situation by weighing up which solution is the least bad, because that is really how I see it. In the field of rape, there is no good solution, there is the least bad one, and that is what we need to weigh down. What I am saying today is not a no and a spank of the door, what I am saying now is that we are giving the Minister some time, because we have promised him that, and when the time is up and the Minister is ready, we will come up and drink a lot of coffee and ask a lot of questions, and then we will see how this can take shape when we get a little further in the process. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182542	Thank you. There are brief comments and the first questioner is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182547	I basically disagree with Mr. Peter Kofod in that it's doubtful whether this is going to move something. First of all, yes, it is true that on some types of crime there are sometimes problems of proof and as long as we do not change the burden of proof and we do not, because we do not want to reverse the burden of proof, we want legal certainty, we do not get into those situations in any area. But this is basically about what's right and what's wrong. Therefore, I would like to ask that question, just so morally, humanly, because I think that our legislation should reflect what is right and what is wrong behavior: if a woman or another human being is just standing completely passively, without moving, without doing anything, without saying anything, should one so want to go over to that person and start doing everything possible on that person's body or start intercourse with that person without the person having said yes as long as the person has not said no? Mr. Peter Kofod, that it will be proper behavior?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182659	That would be against all good behavior. That would be against yes, what should I say soon? So no, I don't think so. That was the answer to the last question. Then something was said about whether it would move anything. I have read in the proposal, of course I do, about the burden of proof, but there is something I cannot understand. The burden of proof is not being called into question, and I agree that this is not a reverse burden of proof, that is to say, I fully agree with that. But if you do not touch on the burden of proof, I cannot understand how to change something in principle. For what if you go into the courts sitting and assessing: has there been consent or has there been no consent? I see some difficulties with that. I do not think that this puts us beyond the situation facing the courts today, which is also very difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182757	I would remind you that if you have any follow-up questions, you have to press in. Thank you. Then the microphone works for better. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182803	Sorry! Completely new to me, for some reason. I'll give it to you, sir. Peter Kofod is right that we do not solve all problems. If we come back to it, as Mr. Peter Kofod agreed with me that if a person stands quite still and does not do anything and does not say anything, it is the case that one should not just get started and start intercourse with that person until the person has said yes. That is what our legislation says today that we can do; it is not rape if that person is completely passive. That person has to say no before we define it as rape. Is it not quite right, then, to conclude that Mr. Peter Kofod, like me, doesn't our rape legislation reflect basic, proper behavior? It's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182857	To Mrs Pernille Skipper: what we have said here during the summer is that this area is not working. Then we have told the Minister for Justice: let us now see if anyone else can make this work better than we have traditionally been able to make it work in Denmark. The Minister is then looking at that, and there we have promised him, in all fairness, that he will have time to gather information about it, and when he has then done so, then we will talk to the Minister about how this should look, if anyone can break this, make it better. I don't know if it works better in Sweden. I've heard from someone that it does. Then I've heard from others that it hasn't mattered. But in all situations I think it is wise to know before we legislate, and that is just what I am saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182946	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113182949	Thank you. As I understand from the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, the rapporteur would very much like to do a great deal to help victims of rape. That is what we want in the Enhedslisten, and that is why we are making this proposal. It's not about holding hands, it's about legal certainty. That is why we are so interested in hearing whether the Danish People's Party really thinks that the rape legislation we have today is in order. The rapporteur may be right to say that this does not change the situation by saying that these are words against words, but that is the case today, Mr President. Peter Kofod. With our proposal, we just want to put the victim in a much better situation because it's about the right to the victim's body. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183040	That's a big question. I'll take the last one first: will it put the victim in a different situation? As far as I remember and it's not to be polemical... the Justice Association has been out saying that you don't think it will. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think that's how it was. So there are also other points of view in relation to that. Mrs Lund then asks me whether I am satisfied with the way this works today. No, I'm not, and I never said that. I also get the e-mails from people who have been mistreated, or people who think that a conviction is unreasonable. And those judgments I'm reading to find out what's up and down in this. So I also think there is room for improvement, and we would like to take part in that. But I also think it is fair to say that when we have sent a minister who has listened to what we have said on a mission, we also owe it to the minister that he can then come back and present the work that has been done before we press the button and legislate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183147	Now I'm not asking what the Association of Judges thinks about this proposal... I'm asking what the Danish People's Party and Mr. Peter Kofod thinks about the proposal. So that's kind of what I want answers to and not what the Court of Justice thinks. Mr. Peter Kofod and the Danish People's Party (Danish People's Party) because you can easily vote for this proposal without laying down a specific model of consent... that what you have to examine in the courtroom when it comes to a rape is whether the victim has made a clear statement, or is that what has to be examined is what the proposal is about whether there has been consent?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183225	Mrs Rosa Lund, I am just as quietly trying to say that there is disagreement among the wise people who are working on this, and I am also listening to that disagreement. That does not mean that I mean that I am just saying that there is disagreement. Should we then vote in favour of a proposal at a time when a lot of knowledge is being gathered, in which we legal rapporteurs will at some point be involved, and which will probably eventually result in a legislative proposal within a few months or whatever? I think that would be wrong. I mean, I actually mean it sincerely when I say that I like to get to grips with things and that I like that knowledge is being gathered for us, and that is why I must also stand by the promise I have made to the Minister that you will have some time to look at it and then we will have to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183319	The next question is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183322	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and the clarification. I am a little curious to hear the rapporteur today about legal certainty. Well, we know it's less than 10%. of the rape cases today, which lead to a conviction. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party are interested in improving legal certainty for the victims of rape in Denmark. I also understand the argument that you want to wait for the Minister's statement. But what do we do in the meantime? If we look at the countries that have introduced consent-based legislation, then there is, of course, a large increase in the number of people sentenced and thus also a great improvement in legal certainty. So what do we do in the meantime for all the sacrifices we have today • all those who dare not report it because they do not see that it helps? What do we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183429	This is a motion for a resolution, so it can be said that even if the whole parliament voted for it, nothing would still happen in the real world until a bill from the government was subsequently voted on. So it can be said that we are not really speeding up any process even by adopting the resolution. In the worst case scenario, you might narrow down a little, you might argue, the options that we would otherwise have at a later stage when the government collects information. Because it may well be that we have to go a way that I do not know yet in this area and which will show up in the work being done. I shall end by saying that I have heard of those figures. I know the Danish figures, of course, and 10%. is a very low number. It should be higher in Britain, and there it is of course interesting to find out exactly what it is like. But there are so many factors in this, and so I also believe that there are grounds for improving it to this day, for example. by looking at the management of the authority. I think that is a very important factor in the fact that so few people are reporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183539	Thank you for your answer. I agree with that. I do not agree that it will change anything. If we find a majority in favour of this and make a decision, then the government will be required to proceed within the current parliamentary year. We know that there are problems. The rapporteur talks about England, and I believe that that is 57 per cent. of the cases leading to a judgment, whereas it is less than 10%. in Denmark. So something's gonna happen right away. By saying yes today, we will recognise that we will have better legal certainty. We will recognise that we ensure that in our country we give women the right to their own bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183624	I think that we are already in the process. I believe that this has been the case since sometime during the summer of this year, when the Minister began to investigate this. So I do not think it is right that we have to adopt this in order to get started. I don't know where we're gonna end up in this process at a later stage. I have chosen to say that we need to look at the other countries. It does not happen so often in the area of justice that you can look around other countries and find a lot of experience there. We can do that precisely in this area, which is why I think it is important that we do it. We have then told the Minister that we have time for this, and then I will have to keep that promise when I have given it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183703	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. As I am in a good mood tonight, I would exceptionally like to respond to a request to switch a little over the rapporteur's order. So here it is, sir. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113183719	Thank you. I'm glad you're so happy. I have said many times in recent months, when we have discussed rape, that there is something we can do better and that there is something we need to do better. We cannot live with the fact that thousands of women do not report rape and sexual abuse because it is not worthwhile. We cannot live with women who courageously report it not being properly treated in the system. We must not live with the fact that only about one in ten of the almost 1,000 women who report rape feel that they have been given justice when their case is dealt with in court. I am personally tired of perpetrators laughing all the way out of the courthouse. I have therefore been pleased that the Minister for Justice has set up a group to work to improve the way in which victims of rape are treated in the system. The group consists of everyday experts, women who have experienced it. I am also pleased that the Minister for Justice will look into whether we can do more legislatively. It might be higher punishment. Indeed, we must always have the legislation that best serves justice. That is why we must work hard on it before we change it. In this work, we also have to work to put down some of the myths that I myself have been carrying around with me, for example. sex with consent requires all kinds of contracts and NemID solutions. I think, as a man, that it is an undervaluation for us men to continue to highlight this myth. I don't know any men and women who, in practice, don't know what volunteer sex is. Be careful not to make the men stupider than they are. Another myth is that there is a risk of reversal of the burden of proof. No, say professionals, among others. Jørgen Vestergaard and foreign professionals who have long experience with this type of legislation. It is still up to the prosecution to lift the burden of proof that the defendant has committed rape, and it must be lifted in order to settle any doubts. This does not prejudice the law of consent. If the defendant did not understand what was going on and the prosecution cannot prove that the defendant understood what he was doing, he will not be convicted. But the woman should no longer be responsible for whether she has tried to prevent her own rape in a certain way. And no, it's not about getting more men convicted, as some claim. It is about getting more guilty and giving justice to those women who have actually been raped. Let us also take it with false notifications, which is an argument that is also used against consent law. It's assumed that 7%. of all reports are false and that they are mainly caught in the investigation and do not become more. But we are open to higher penalties for false reviews. So let us work with the myths and the fear of legal certainty, because legal certainty must of course be in place for all parties. Right now, unfortunately, it is not for the victims of rape. Having said all that, it is also important for us Conservatives that, if we are to go down that road, we should stand on a solid and thorough legislative work that leans on the experiences of other countries and our own legal competences and assessments of how those experiences should look in a Danish context. That is why the Conservatives cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal today, but I would like to sign up to the Enhedslisten for their hard work in this area. I would also like to say to the rape victims who have gone in vain in the system that we have heard you and that we owe you justice. I am very, very pleased that the work has been set in motion, that things are moving, and I look forward to seeing the result. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184129	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184133	Thank you to the Conservatives for moving forward. I would like to ask, as I asked the Danish People's Party Mr. Peter Kofod just before, about Mr. Naser Khader agrees with me and Mr. Peter Kofod in that it is not proper behavior to engage in intercourse with a person who is completely calm, is passive, does not object, does not say from time to time, just stands still and says nothing until this person has in one way or another said yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184215	The person has to say yes to sex, to sexual intercourse. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184225	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184233	I'm really glad to hear that, sir. Naser Khader says yes. The problem is precisely that it does not reflect our legislation today. However, if legislation is to reflect the need for a person to say yes before he is allowed to have sex with the person, then we must have that consent-based. The resolution before us today does not say anything about a concrete model; it merely says that it must be consent-based. I.e. that the only thing we propose in the Enhedslisten is that we make legislation that may have been knitted together in 1,000 ways, but which means that you must not just start sex, intercourse, everything possible, with people who have not given their consent first. So my question is: why are we not voting this through, so that we all know that a majority in the Danish Parliament thinks that it is not proper behaviour, what I described before, so we can always wait for work to be done on how it should be implemented later? We're not voting on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184345	I think it is important to welcome the fact that there is a movement, that there is openness to see how to do it in other countries, because you don't do it in the same way. There are different ways to do it • that we look at what fits best into a Danish context. An important piece of work has been set in motion, and we must back that up. I do not think we should short-circuit the process by simply saying that this is the resolution, and that is it. I think it is important to commend the Minister for having started work, for listening to women who have been raped, who have taken part in a hearing on it, and then wait for the results of the experience and input that come from the experts involved, and then I hope that we will move in that direction. Personally, I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184440	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184443	Thank you. I can start by reassuring the Conservative rapporteur that we have praised the Minister for Justice for setting this work in motion. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Conservative rapporteur, who would like to look at experience: why is it not enough with the experience we have today? After all, we have examined what the legislation is like in those countries where it is based on consent. They've done it in Sweden, they've done it in England. Our legislation is hopelessly old-fashioned, so why is that not enough for the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184523	The fact that there is work going on is also a recognition that we are not doing well enough. Then we have heard that it is done in different ways in other countries. I think it is important to gain that experience because when there was a recent hearing here at Christiansborg, there was also some doubt that what you do in Sweden is the same as what you do in England and elsewhere. Again, I think it is extremely important to do it properly because it is an important area, this and not rush it all through.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184557	I do not want to say now that it is rushing something through. For many years we have been discussing whether we should have consent-based or forced-based legislation in this area, and it is, of course, forced-based today. What I'm just having so much trouble understanding is that if Mr. Hawkins doesn't know what he's doing... Naser Khader agrees with Mrs. Pernille Skipper and Mr. Peter Kofod and me in saying that there must be consent if there is not to be rape, why not, on the conservative side, vote in favour of this bill, which does not adhere to a particular model, but simply says yes to a consent-based legislation, which is based on the experience we have already gathered? I cannot understand why this is not enough for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184642	Because a job is set in motion and that with consent is extremely important. But the other elements are also important: the system; the way to meet women who come and report rape; the way to question them. There is also a need for a change in culture, and that is why it all needs to be seen in a whole, and that is why I am very, very pleased that we have started this work. In fact, I very much welcome this movement as well. We should therefore be pleased about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184714	The next question is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184717	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for the speech and the answers. I note that the rapporteur actually had a very positive approach to consent and a consent-based rape clause, and I recognise that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party want more knowledge before they can decide which model they can adopt. However, I do not hear from the rapporteur's speech that there is no recognition that this is about consent, nor in the answer to Mrs Pernille Skipper's question, namely that yes, it is about consent. So if the rapporteur agrees that it is about consent, if the rapporteur thinks it is such a model, but that we should just find out what model it should be, because it is also about how the rest of the authorities deal with these matters, why can the rapporteur not now say yes to it being consent when that is what the rapporteur's speech has been about, and that is what the rapporteur has acknowledged in his reply?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184818	Like I said, I've moved myself. I had a lot of ideas about what consent is and have become wiser about it. I think it is important also to give others in here the opportunity to come to that realization, and it takes some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184839	Can I have the rapporteur say a little more precisely whether the rapporteur agrees that there must always be consent for sexual acts and, if the answer is yes, why should it not be included in our legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184859	I am personally open to consent, but as regards the model to be introduced and how we respond to the criticism and reservations of the model, we must await the conclusion of the work being carried out in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184919	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we return to the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mrs Britt Baker as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113184929	Rape is a terrible crime and rapists must be punished. We can all agree on that. That is why I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution in order to raise this debate here today. Because it is quite obvious that there are some challenges in the field of rape. There are too few people who report rape, and in cases that are actually reported, only a few are convicted. More needs to be done to help the people who have been raped. How we deal with these challenges, I think we should discuss them very, very carefully. But today we are debating consent-based legislation. The proposal on consent-based legislation raises a number of questions to which we still need answers. How should consent-based legislation work in practice down in the courtrooms? Does consent lead to a de facto reversal of the burden of proof? We agree that this is not what the motion for a resolution says and that it is not the intention of the proposers, but we are deeply concerned about the statements made by the Association of Judges. How is this actually gonna work in courtrooms? Then there is the last thing that has been debated and that Mr. Peter Kofod also mentioned earlier, whether this will change anything at all. And I understand that those who support this proposal disagree internally, because I noticed that Mrs Trine Bramsen said that she was not sure that this would move anything, whereas I understand from Mrs Pernille Skipper's question that Mrs Pernille Skipper is sure that this will move a great deal. We must listen to the experiences of the other countries that have consent-based legislation, and we must learn more about how the victims experience their way through the judicial system, so that we can identify the barriers and inappropriateness that exist in other countries. This work is currently being carried out in the Ministry of Justice. A panel of experts has been set up to examine how victims are treated in the judicial system and the Minister of Justice has asked his officials to investigate how other countries have drafted their legislation and with what effect. Once that work has been completed and we have learned more about what is going to happen, we in the Left are very willing to look at what can be changed. This does not mean, however, that we should sit on our hands while the work in the Ministry of Justice is going on, and that is why we in the Left have made a number of proposals on what we can address here and now. We are proposing early action in schools' sex education. We must teach children and young people that intercourse always takes place voluntarily, and we must teach young people to set limits and perceive the boundaries of others. For that is precisely where a large part of this problem is, namely that you do not get your own speech clearly and clearly and that the other party does not perceive when it is said off. We propose that the victims should have a safer meeting with the police when they report a crime, because there are examples of a victim being taken by the police in a really, really ugly way. There are examples that an interrogation starts with the victim being confronted with what this will mean in relation to a false notification. We shall, of course, look into this. We've already done a lot in this area. The police's efforts have become much, much better, but of course there is room for improvement. We also propose that a lack of protest from the victim should no longer be taken into account. A lack of a 'no' must never be interpreted as a 'yes', and I think that can be really, really, very much in rape cases. So for me and the Left, there are two tracks to work on in the field of rape: on the one hand, the initiatives that we can launch here and now, and on the other hand, the in-depth work that the Minister of Justice is doing and which we are awaiting the outcome of. And although we in the Left agree with the background to the resolution and although we are concerned with doing a great deal in this area, our position is that we should await the investigation by the Minister for Justice, who will hopefully be able to provide us with answers to some of the unanswered questions I mentioned earlier. I look forward to that work being completed in the Ministry of Justice and I look forward to the Minister for Justice calling for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113185544	Thank you. There are brief comments and the first questioner is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113185550	I would like to start by asking Mrs Britt Baker what exactly is the reason why the Left does not think we can vote through the proposal so that the Folketing is clearly told: we must have legislation based on consent and then wait for all the work that is going on in the Ministry of Justice before we adopt a concrete model. I hear Mrs Britt Baker say, or I heard him misheard, it may be that we have to wait for the work of the working group because we have to bring it all in; we have to look at all aspects and make inquiries to the police. We're gonna have to bring it all in. It is not enough just to look at legislation. On the other hand, Mrs Britt Baker also says that there are some proposals that we can start by implementing here and now, just not with consent. So what exactly is the problem? Is that what we have to wait for the whole package? Or what is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113185657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113185659	Well, I'm not convinced that we need consent-based legislation. I am not convinced that this is the right model. I still need to know what exactly this will mean in the courtroom, and I hope and expect that the Minister for Justice's statement will be able to respond to that. What has this made of difference in England? And now that the legislation is going to be implemented in Sweden or, at least, working it's from this summer, we have to remember that and we can see how it works in Sweden, we can see what the difference is then. Have they had good experiences? We are very willing to look at that. But I am not convinced that this is the only feasible solution. That is also why we are proposing quite specifically that we should rather go the way of saying at this stage that a lack of a 'no' is not the same as a 'yes' vote. Instead of putting the emphasis on active action, we go and say that the fact that the victim does not say 'no' should be emphasised.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113185816	The questioner needs to be commended for coming in. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113185820	Yes! I'm sorry! I am simply confused at a higher level. The Left will not be determined whether consent should be the cornerstone of Danish rape legislation, because you need to know exactly how it works in a trial before you say yes to that principle. However, with regard to the principle that non-no is not the same as yes, you do not need to know how that change of law will work in practice until you say yes to it. That is the one question: what is the relationship? The second question is: what exactly is the difference when the Left says that they want legislation where failure to do so is not the same as yes to consent-based legislation? Because it sounds like the Left agrees that yes must be said for it to be sex voluntarily and that a... No, okay. I am simply confused at a higher level.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113185927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113185928	A lack of no must never be interpreted as a yes. Inaction must never be interpreted as having the right to rape another human being. It is actually in the legislation today, it is just not accurate enough. Today's legislation states: "For rape is punishable by imprisonment up to 8 years who... obtains intercourse by other unlawful coercion,... or by a person who is in a state or situation in which the person concerned is unable to oppose the act. We must be clear about this, and we must specify it, so that if we have to say no, then that does not mean that it is a self-boarding roof, then that does not mean that the perpetrator must be allowed to board, and that must be clear and clear. That is what we are proposing in the Left. It has to be clearer in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190032	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190036	Thank you. I have also been slightly confused by what Mrs Britt Baker says. Because if we have come so far that the Left would like to contribute to young people already in primary school, from an early age, learning respect for boundaries and for oneself to be in charge of one's body, why does the Left not want it to be reflected in the rape legislation? That is one question. The second question is: should I interpret this as meaning that the Left has now finally changed its position and believes that sex education should be an hour-defined subject in primary school? Because that would be welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190122	Well, I do not actually understand the confusion, because I am saying exactly the same thing that we wrote in our chronicle on 24 October and which I have also shown to Mrs Rosa Lund, namely that a lack of a 'no' should not be interpreted as a 'yes'. That can't be very hard to understand. Then I would like to answer the second question about sex education. This can be avoided by far if better sex education is offered, and that is actually what we say in our chronicle, namely that sex education must be compulsory to some extent. We have not determined whether it should be with a fixed hour or in what classes it should take place, but we have made it compulsory and that it should be done because we believe it will make a difference to culture. As far as this rape law is concerned, there have been many arguments today as to whether it would work or not. But one of the things we know will work is that early action is being taken, that we form young people, make them aware of their own borders and train them to perceive the boundaries of others. I am very, very concerned about that, and we can start doing so tomorrow, and that is why we are proposing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190246	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190249	I agree that the early effort is really important and very good, and I am glad that we can already start talking tomorrow about how many hours we will then have to devote in primary school to talking about it. What just puzzles me is that Mrs Britt Baker and the Left do not want this reflected in our legislation, because it is the case that you cannot change a culture by snapping your fingers. After all, the change in culture must come from somewhere, and I cannot think of any better place to send out an important signal that, as Mrs Britt Baker has just said, a lack of a 'no' is not the same as a 'yes' vote as here and in the penal code. And that is exactly what we are proposing in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190329	Well, if that's exactly what you're proposing, then we actually agree. If that is exactly what you are proposing, namely that a lack of a 'no' is not the same as a 'yes', then we agree but that is just not what you are proposing. You propose a consent; you propose that you actively say yes. And there is a huge difference between adding importance to a passive action and seeing that you have to get in and do something active. I still need answers on how this consent should be given. I understand that it can be both verbally and nonverbally, but I still need answers on how exactly it should be given. I also still need answers about what is going to happen in the courtroom. I still do not have an answer to that. And I look forward so much to Mrs Rosa Lund or Mrs Pernille Skipper coming up here on the platform so that they can help me get all those questions answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190417	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190421	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and answers to questions. The rapporteur says that a lack of a 'no' should never be interpreted as a 'yes', that it cannot be so difficult to understand. But unfortunately it is true, many times 5,000 times in Denmark estimates the Crime Prevention Council. And there are 1,000 reviews. So it's hard to understand. I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is also about a change in culture. It's about teaching, it's about talking about it. It is also so difficult to understand for the men who are now in the judicial system, and perhaps also for the women who are in the judicial system. That is why, I believe, we have a duty to give them a framework so that it becomes a little easier to understand, and that is what a consent is about: that if you have not received a yes, that if you have not made an effort to get a yes, you can never interpret it as such. That's what I see with this legislation. Does the rapporteur agree that this is how we should pursue it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190533	In fact, I do not necessarily agree with Mr Seligman. Roger Courage Matthisen in. But first I'd like to be allowed to arrest Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen uses a dark figure of 5,000 to say that it is the number of reviews that are taking place; I think that is a little bit wrong. We can't use a dark count to establish anything. The number that scares me more and that I am not convinced this will change is only 119 convictions out of the 971 cases where a rape was reported in 2017. 'Cause it's really hard to raise these rape cases. It's really hard, 'cause, like mr. Peter Kofod also mentioned that is a claim against claim, and consent-based rape legislation will not change that at all. It's still getting away claiming it's just being weighed differently and I think that's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190640	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190641	So the rapporteur thinks that it is a huge problem to weigh a woman's right to her own body. That is how I understand the rapporteur's answer. I totally agree that we just weigh it differently. Today there is a distorted legal certainty for the victims, who, unfortunately, are mainly women. And when I mention 5,000, it's only because it's their estimate. I am not saying that there are 5 000 reviews, because there are not; there are only 1 000. After all, we know that many citizens are abstaining from reporting precisely because they do not feel that there is any legal certainty. This is the case with this type of discrimination, and this is also the case in other areas where there is discrimination. So I am actually just asking the rapporteur: should we protect women better, and how do we do so in terms of legal certainty if it is not with explicit consent?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190732	So I think an attempt is being made to misunderstand quite a lot right now. Because I said clearly in my speech that there are problems in this area and that I agree with the proposers on this point. I also agree that something needs to be done. However, I am not convinced that consent-based legislation is the right solution. That is precisely why the Minister of Justice is catching up with other countries in this area, so that we can see if it works. And it is clear that if it works, then it is something that we should have a discussion about whether we should go to Denmark. Clearly, if we get results from the other countries that show that this is a very good idea, then we will have to debate it; then it is not the case that we are sitting on our hands and saying that this is not really something we are going to introduce into Denmark. But I am not going to say that this is something we in the Left are in favour of until I have seen the work going on in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190839	With that, we thank the rapporteur of the Left. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113190857	Thank you. We in Denmark have a worrying lag behind, for example. Great Britain, when it comes to reported rapes leads to conviction. This, of course, is thoughtful, it is also with me, and we as legislators have a responsibility to organise legislation in such a way as to promote justice in the judicial system in the best possible way. And the righteous thing is, if you have committed a crime against another person, you are judged and then you are punished for it. It is also fair not to be judged if you have not committed a crime. The difficult thing in rape cases is that there are rarely witnesses who can report to the courts what has happened. It is often the word of the accused against the victim's words. I know that we all agree that rape is a terrible crime, and that is why we have also raised the level of penalties for rape quite significantly. If we cannot immediately support the proposal here today in LA, it is partly because we are not sure that if the proposal came into force we would not affect an entirely fundamental principle of law, namely that we are innocent until proven otherwise. This does not mean, of course, that the focus on rape victims should be downgraded. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we support the creation by the Minister for Justice of a panel of experts which is just looking at the concerns of rape victims. So it's not about how that panel of experts we expect a lot of. Because in areas like this, there are many issues. That is why it is very good that the panel of experts is made up of experts who need to examine the many issues that exist in this area. We are also pleased that the Minister for Justice is examining how the rules on rape work in other countries, not only how they are legally linked, i.e. how the letter of the law is, but just as much or perhaps even more, how they work in practice; what does that mean for case law, what does that mean in courtrooms? When we know the results of those investigations, we are fully involved in a completely open and open-minded debate on whether we should change the rape clause. We will take that at that time, and we are, as I am sure you will be able to hear, moving on to the question. But that also means that we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposals here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191148	Thank you. It gave a question from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191154	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance, also sincerely, for being on the move. The small victories must be celebrated, and we certainly think so, not least for the many people outside Christiansborg who have called out about this and who have some very clear experiences of what it means to be met by a legal system that does not take the victims seriously and that has become involved in matters and that has started a debate in the Folketing. It is, of course, their victory that the Liberal Alliance is also on the move. I'm really glad. What makes me speak is this with the reversal of the burden of proof, i.e. you're not sure about that. I would just like to say quite clearly that what we are proposing is that we move what is known as the crime, that is, the act that is the offence. Today there must be some form of coercion, threats, violence. What we are proposing is that we talk about a lack of consent. So the burden of proof lies with the prosecution. What we are changing is what the prosecution has to prove.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191301	Well, thank you for that investigation. I would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the long-standing struggle of Mrs Pernille Skipper and Enhedslisten on this issue. Well, this evidence thing is right. I am also gradually at the point where we understand that, if you do this, it does not mean that the burden of proof is reversed. Somewhere, of course, it is a consideration between, on the one hand, the fact that today we have legislation in which we have to prove positively that there was an obligation, it is inappropriate, I agree with that, and that on the other hand we do not end up in the other ditch where we enter into a legal situation which means that we have to prove positively that consent was available. That, as I understand Mrs Pernille Skipper, is not what the Enhedslisten is proposing either. And if that's understood correctly, we're not really that far apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191348	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191350	That is quite right. It is not the case that any person can be dragged into a courtroom and asked to prove that there was consent when they had sex with their boyfriend last Monday, of course not. What has to be proved is the lack of consent, and that is the task of the prosecution. That is how it is in a society of law, that is how it is in a democracy. We would never suggest anything else. I'd just like to sign that it's so closed now, hopefully. It's been an obstacle for a long time. Now that hope is closed, and we hope that we will have the Liberal Alliance with the last part of the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191430	We would then like to thank the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance and move on to the rapporteur for the alternative, and that is Mr Seligman. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191436	Thank you. I'll take the cook's daughter whenever I want; that's my right. Quote from Jørgen Leth. This motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten is intended precisely to end this patriarchal and problematic understanding and view of girls and women, an old and reactionary legislation. The proposed legislation shifts the focus of attention to the fact that, as men, we do not own a woman's body or have a right to something or someone at all, but that it is precisely a question of learning to recognise and respect that it is the choice of a woman, that it is the body of a woman. The motion for a resolution proposes a new definition of rape in the penal code based on consent. The resolution is a slightly revised re-presentation of a previous motion for a resolution B 40 in the last session, and the revision has been made to address the concerns raised at first reading, which we also voiced by the Alternative, in which we actually voted against the proposal, although we agreed with the intention that if we change the definition of the rape clause into a consent-based provision, it would mean that a person involved in sexual acts against a person who does not participate voluntarily could be convicted of rape. Our concerns in the past were as to whether too much attention was focused on when consent was given and whether, for the perpetrator, the burden of proof was reversed. However, based on the experience of those countries that have a consent-based definition of rape, we have not been able to find back cover for the latter, and in relation to the victim we have come to the conclusion that a new formulation of the rape clause will precisely shift focus away from the victim and onto the perpetrator, because consent is actually quite simple. It's not about touching first and then asking for permission afterwards. It is the other way round, and that is the difference between the proof of whether there has been a 'no' or a 'yes' vote. Danish legislation is not up to date. It defines rape as sexual abuse with violence, coercion and threats, or that the victim has been helpless and unable to resist. This focuses on whether or not the victim has opposed and actively renounced, focusing on the victim's behaviour and not on the perpetrator's behavior, and it does not take into account the fact that many rape victims are reacting to anxiety. 70% of the female rape victims in a study in Sweden experienced involuntary paralysis during the rape. The most important problem with the legislation is that the wording is quite fundamental in principle. The text of the law reflects the fact that in rape cases the individual is not recognised as inviolable as a starting point. If you take the Danish rape clause at face value, it implies a premise that in principle every body is available until it is said no. The resolution is also based on the recommendations of the Istanbul Convention. Most people may not know what the Istanbul Convention is, but it is the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence Against Women and Domestic Violence. The Convention is yet another call for greater equality between the sexes and aims to introduce zero tolerance to this kind of violence, and it represents an important step towards making Europe and the rest of the world more secure. Violence against women is rooted in inequality between men and women in society and is kept alive by a culture of intolerance and denial. The legislation must also help to change the standards of our society, and many men will probably feel affected here, because it is also a difficult subject, a taboo subject, where many can also fear when it will be me in this MeToo witch hunt, and this resolution is just another attack on us from the politically correct, from the MeToo movement. But this is often the case in skewed power relationships. Whoever has power consciously or unconsciously will react strongly when this power is taken from them, but perhaps we men should be more willing to give up power, acknowledge our positions and privileges in these areas and help to balance the balance of power. This legislation has to contribute with it. Of course, it cannot stand alone, but it is an important step on the road. In addition, we need more sex education, which the Left has also emphasised. We need more information about the patterns we reproduce and we need to dress all people with educational responsibility in Denmark in gender, gender, gender, gender and diversity so that they can help to change our behaviour and standards. This is a proposal I am making in the Chamber later this year. In those words, I would say that the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191950	Thank you. It gave rise to a single question from Mrs Britt Baker, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113191954	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech. And we are all agreed on this intention here in the Parliamentary Assembly. One of the things that I'm still in doubt about, and that Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen might be able to help me get a little smarter about how this consent should be defined in the legislation. There has been a lot of talk about it from all sides. Is that supposed to be NemID? Do you have to sign a statement? I think we're all aware that it's not supposed to. But the motion for a resolution still says that it must be given. So how is it to be given? The previous resolution also stated that it should be given all the way through. We can understand the intention, that is, that it should of course be voluntary sex all the way through. But how is it to be given? What are some things that the judges need to emphasize? Because we also have to send a signal to the judges.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192103	That is a very good question, but unfortunately it is also because we are going to focus again on when the woman got to say yes or no, instead of focusing on when the man obtained consent with that question. When did he make sure it was okay? I think, according to most of the empire I know of, and the research that has been carried out sociologically, that men are too busy with what they want in the situations themselves. They are too concerned about themselves and too little concerned about how the woman feels, what she wants or does not want to happen. So this legislation is going to help to focus on that. How, then, should consent be given? How is this to be found in the court? It's always a grey area. But this is a tool for the courts to move focus away from the offended, the victim, and onto the perpetrator and ask the perpetrator to justify the sexual act.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192212	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Does Mrs Britt Baker wish to speak? Here you go, Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192220	I'm sorry, sir. President. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen said that the perpetrator must make sure that he has obtained consent. What if the perpetrator doesn't? What if the perpetrator does not obtain consent that he cannot prove that consent had been obtained? What's up? So you're gonna sentence him for rape? Or what happens if he can't prove that consent has been obtained?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192259	That's what he's supposed to do in the case where the victim reported him for rape. But we have to assume that if you can't prove it, and if they can't prove it, it's still gone that the courts have to ensure that there is a basis for him to have carried out an illegal act, that he hasn't obtained proof. But this has to be learned, that is to say, to have much more focus on the other sex, on the one we're with. So hopefully he's learned it before he does it, that is, violates the woman.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192339	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192341	I've been confused on a higher level. I have been following the debate and I still lack an answer to what is meant by consent, i.e. the consent that has to be obtained. Can it be implied? Could it be through anything but words? Could it be with action? In other words, how does one think in concrete terms that one should be able to prove that there is consent? Because that's still going to be a claim against a claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192418	Again: That is a good question and it is a grey area. I imagine it can be both verbal and nonverbal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192430	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen? No. Then we have reached the point where we can thank the rapporteur and welcome the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Andreas Steenberg, who is allowed for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192454	Thank you. As with the proposal we had before this, which is probably some time ago, I can tell you that Mrs Lotte Rod is our rapporteur on the matter, but that she has been included elsewhere in the House with one of her other rapporteurs, where things are also going on. I was listening very attentively to the Minister for Justice's speech, which I thought served both the Minister for Justice, but also the people's regime very much. Because it was a Justice Minister who, on behalf of the government, admitted that the Minister of Justice was in doubt and had considerations and had also moved and could see some things in this resolution, even though the government is not ready to introduce this new definition of rape yet. But I saw there was movement, and I thought it was great that one dared admit it, and in the Radical Left we also hope that it can lead to this being changed at some point. We're ready to change it now. That is why we are voting in favour of the resolution. We have also proposed the same thing in the past, so it may not come as a big surprise. But I think it was interesting to hear both the government, but also the Danish People's Party's rapporteur being open to start looking at this, and we hope it will. We think it is quite obvious that there may be rapes where the person who is raped has not been able to say no or resist, for example. because the person has been tricked into taking drugs or has become very drunk. Or there may be other reasons why the person is unable to resist, but where it is still rape because the person has not wanted and may have been lured into taking drugs, for example. That's why we think it's important to make this change of when something is rape, so that there must have been a consent to sex before it starts. So we are still ready to support this resolution and also hope that the work that I understand the government is doing in the Ministry of Justice can lead to this being looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192718	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192728	Well, she didn't say no, and until that's all there is to say, that's not what it's all about. Because without a clear signal that sex is the desire of both parties, yes, it is rape. If you don't agree on sex, then we have an exact term, and it's rape again. And rape is a horrible crime, which often persecutes women for many years after the crime. Too many rapes are never reported. On the other hand, we are told that far too few of the cases that are being notified actually lead to a charge. It is also far too coincidence which cases become charges and judgments. Among other things: Does it matter what gender and attitude the cop has that receives the report? In cases of rape, cases simply have to start somewhere else: by sitting in the woman's place, in the victim's place, and there may be many reasons why during an attack a woman is paralyzed, freezes in anxiety or paralysis, that she is unable to speak or shout up. But lack of resistance is not a yes, and without consent we are back to the name of what is happening, namely rape. We must strengthen the position of the victims, women, without at the same time undermining the status of men. It can be done. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192917	Thank you. There is one question from Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113192921	Thank you. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur starts by saying that a lack of a 'no' should not mean that a 'yes' has been said or that you just have to take care of the courts yourself, so to speak. Could the SF then go along with the Left and say that a lack of a 'no' is not the same as a 'yes', so instead of saying 'no' actively and going in and emphasising an active action, we estimate that the lack of a 'no', i.e. the passive action, does not mean 'yes'? I am well aware that it is going to be pretty turbulent, but in fact there is a very, very big difference between whether you do not say no or whether you should say yes positively, especially when we are going to define it in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193018	It is clear that there are many positive ways to say yes. As I see the proposal from the Enhedslisten, the basic idea is that we turn the situation to the point of starting from the need for consent. This means that you go to the matter in a different way than you do today, where you say that it is the woman who should be questioned, that it is the woman who has to explain that it is the woman who has to answer for what happened. I think it is a good thing to strengthen the position of women by starting from perhaps asking the man what happened. Were there any particular reasons? Was there any particular reason for you to believe that in relation to this action there was acceptance? That is why I believe that the starting point of the proposal is that if you do not say 'yes', that is 'no', and then it is rape.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193114	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193116	But when the rapporteur replies that way, does that mean that if the woman has not actively said yes and the man cannot prove that the woman has said yes, then he is a rapist? Is that what that means?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193138	No, it will depend on what the court finds out, and it is, as in all sorts of other complicated cases, what these are going to be. It's always complicated stuff. There will be someone who says one, and someone else who says another. So whether the fact that you have not said yes means that the man is a rapist will depend on the overall circumstances of the act, and that needs to be uncovered in the courtroom, and that is something the police have to investigate. The police must, what to say, just investigate with a different light on the case than the one that has been now. Now the light has to look for if there was consent instead of before: Was the woman really causing it? Or was it really just sex? And it's all too often that it wasn't just sex, it was rape, and it has to be stopped. If we can get closer to that with this proposal, we are happy to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193222	There is a question from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193224	I would just like to confirm in the exchange of views that it is Mr. Karsten Hønge, who has understood the proposal correctly, and that it is clear directly from the proposal that it is not the man, the perpetrator, the defendant, who has to prove that there was consent; it is the prosecution who has to prove that there was no consent. That is quite clear in the remarks, so it should not continue to be a question in this Chamber. It wasn't a question, but sir. Karsten Hønge has the opportunity to replicate anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193300	I'll give it to you, sir. Karsten Hønge then opportunity for now, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193303	I'm thrilled that I understand the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193311	It's not that easy, sir. Karsten Hønge, for Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen also wants to clarify who understands the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193315	I think this is a difficult question. We in the Left fully agree that there is an excessive discrepancy between the number of women, as it is, first and foremost, although there are also men who report rape and then the number of cases that actually lead to a conviction, so there is some problem. I just don't think I get so much smarter about what you want to put in place. Now I heard the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge, say that the word yes must come out of the other person's mouth, but that is not what I have heard from others. Sir. Karsten Hønge is an experienced man, and this does not always happen in the way that it is said: Yes, let us do it. It may be in other more subtle ways, both find out that they want to. So I would like to ask SF something: do you really mean that, that is to say, if no yes has been said, then it is rape?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193427	Now I just unfolded my otherwise curly speech paper again, and it doesn't say that, so I didn't actually say that. I'm saying that because she doesn't say no, that doesn't mean it's a yes. I also say here that lack of resistance is not a yes, and without consent it is rape. It is also obvious. One thing as complicated as the relationship that can arise between two people cannot be reduced in such a way, and we should not do that either, because it is too serious to have to reduce it to whether it was said yes. I also believe that I said, at least in response to Mrs Britt Baker, that we can express our consent in more ways than through the word 'yes'. It's pretty obvious. So it is not the word 'yes' that is crucial, but the overall actions that make it possible to see whether there is consent, and I see this motion for a resolution as an attempt to shift the perspective of a possible rape case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193529	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193532	Well, it wasn't sir. Karsten Hønge's speech, I referred to, was an answer to a question from the rapporteur of the Left, where I am quite sure that Mr. Karsten Hønge said fairly literally: If not, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193552	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193553	Now we don't have to dig the opposite deeper than they are. In that sentence it is said that a 'yes' can be expressed in more ways than by saying the word 'yes'. We know that. So, having said yes in the context I have spoken about it today, everyone must be able to understand it in such a way that it means that in the overall actions there is a consent corresponding to a yes. Saying yes can also be done physically.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193622	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113193636	Thank you very much for that and thank you for a very important debate. I can promise you this isn't the last time we've got it. The Enhedslisten has tabled a resolution to ensure that we have much more up-to-date legislation on rape. We want legislation based on consent, and it is basically about getting legislation that reflects what is right and what is wrong. Today, rape law means that it is the woman or the victim who is responsible for rejecting it. If she is completely passive, perhaps for fear or other reasons, it is legitimate for another person to have sex with her even if she has not said yes in one way or another. In other words, the legislation says that people are basically entitled to your body, unless you say yes, and not that you are entitled to your own body as a starting point, unless you say yes. A consent-based legislation will mean that you have the responsibility to ensure that others are okay with what you do to them. You can't just have sex with another person without making sure they actually want it. Today you don't have to stop if you're in doubt, you can just keep going. With consent-based legislation, we make sure that if you are in doubt, you have to stop. And there is good reason to make that clear, because it is not only rapists who are freed from it but also because there are women who never get reported abuse and there are abuses that are not categorized as it is, although they should. I have heard some terrible stories from women who make this one of the most relevant things we can talk about in the area of equality at all. I talked to a young woman who didn't really want to have sex. She started crying along the way, but she didn't get off because she felt obliged and didn't dare. He didn't stop, even though the tears rolled down her cheeks. Is that okay? That is the question. I also talked to a young woman who slept in a bed after a party with a friend. She woke up when he was having sex with her while she was lying there drunk and confused and scared. She didn't tell me she was pretending to be asleep hoping he'd stop soon. Is that okay with his behavior? That is what we are asking, basically, today. Can you have sex with another person who cries or sleeps as long as they don't say no? The legislation today says that it is actually acceptable to do so. What we are proposing is that it should not be done, it should be rape and it should be punishable. What we also have to ask ourselves is: is this how we want to raise our children? Would we tell our young boys that the examples I'm bringing here are okay? Actually, I don't think any of us would. We'd say it's not okay behavior. Therefore, this is also about making clear to all of us, in relation to the way we behave towards each other, not only in the courts, but also in relation to how we treat each other as human beings, that if it is not mutual, it is not sex, it is rape. And we need to talk more about borders and respect when we can meet young women who tell such stories as I have reproduced here. New legislation would give us a very rich opportunity to do so. However, we must also ensure that victims of rape receive proper treatment, and many of the rapporteurs have mentioned this, and I would very much like to acknowledge that. There are thousands of rapes a year. It is almost a thousand people who are reported, even fewer victims get proper treatment and a proper investigation through the system, even fewer are given the opportunity to come before a judge at all, and in the end we are almost down to the fact that it is in a small amount of cases that are being tried. And we all, thankfully, agree that that is wrong. We need many more women to dare to report, and we need to have many more rapists convicted. It's a crazy statistic when there's almost a greater risk of you being convicted of bicycle theft than of rape. And that's because there are a lot of people who don't dare report they're afraid of the shame, they may blame themselves. I have also once heard a young woman say that it cannot be rape, if you have gone home with him after a city trip, because if you have said yes, you cannot stop again. You have first said A, you must also say B. That sounds crazy, because of course you can. But that's still the way it is in some places. At the Center for Rape Victims, they say that many victims say that the way through the system and the notification process was actually worse for some of the victims than the abuse itself. Women are sitting in this Chamber today, as I have heard, saying that they will not recommend other victims of rape to report it as long as the legislation is as it is today, because it is too hard. We simply have to go in and take this seriously. Then there are such frequently applied questions in this case too. Will this mean a reversal of the burden of proof? No, it won't. We do not shift the burden of proof; the burden of proof lies with the prosecution. We are moving what is called the element of crime, so is it the existence of coercion that is punishable, or is it the lack of consent that is punishable? It is not very difficult; you have it in many other countries. Whether it will move anything at all has also been discussed. It's no use, because there'll still be rapists walking free. Yes, I can promise you that there will still be gone, unfortunately. But it'll move a lot too much for real, a lot of people there's no doubt about that. Does that mean you have to sign a contract before you have sex? I want to say: yes, we make such a standard contract, we all have to sign every Wednesday before we can continue. I mean, who thinks we're suggesting this? There is already the penal code, for example, the theft provision. It also says that theft is if you take and remove a foreign moving object, as it is called, without consent. The courts are constantly assessing lack of consent. That doesn't mean that if you borrow your father's car without him signing a contract, it's stealing. No, it can work. Should we then vote against this proposal if we want to wait for the work of the working party set up by the Minister of Justice? No, you don't have to. The proposal is not about a concrete model or a specific paragraph. It is about changing the act, that is to say that legislation must be based on consent rather than coercion. But how to precisely turn it together • whether it is a Swedish model, an Irish model, an Australian model, or how to exactly do it in courtrooms, as has been said many times • one can easily wait to get completely in place before choosing the final model. I think we've all heard of some of those grotesque things that have been in the press. We should therefore know that it is completely wrong with the law, if a young woman can force a pill into her, be filmed to Snapchat by three men, while in shifts they have different forms of sex with her and then they are acquitted because it is not proven that the pill drugged her. We know that instinctively is wrong. There is also the girl who, in connection with a youth party, had sex with two different guys she didn't actually know in advance behind a bush outside at the party. They were acquitted because it wasn't proven that she couldn't have resigned. Many of the cases here, which I am talking about, will later be changed in the legal system, and the courts will, as it were, fit into the part of the rape clause that is about being unable to quit, but that does not change the fact that the law today says that she should resign if she can. It's her responsibility to say no if she can say no. It's not the two boys who have to make sure she's okay. Having sex with someone she's never met before behind a bush outside for a party. It is not the three men who film a young woman and put it on Snapchat after they give her a pill she didn't want, and have sex with her who is responsible for stopping and just hearing her: Hey, are you really okay with this? She's the one who has to say no if she can. If it could be proved that she was unconscious or dull, couldn't quit, then she won't have the responsibility. That's what we're gonna change. As people, we have a responsibility to ensure that what we do to someone else's bodies is something they want to do or we should not do it. That's just what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113194630	Thank you. There is one question from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113194634	Thank you for a very good speech, where I think you get around the problem very well. Now it's hard to judge for the legislature. We have the courts for that, but there's something that you have to say just seems really, really strange in the proof of the example that Mrs Pernille Skipper mentions with a girl who has wept. In other words, why in the world the courts do not reach the point where crying is the same thing as refusing to do what is going on right now can surprise me. That is why I would just like to call for us to go further and find out how to resolve these problems, which I fully agree with there, and then wait for the work that comes from the Ministry of Justice, so that we can be sure that we are hitting the right balance too, so that we do not run the risk of getting into a situation that is just as unsatisfactory as the one we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113194741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113194742	The reason why this can be achieved is, of course, that the legislation in force requires that the perpetrator is committed to coercion. If he has no intention of coercion, and if it has not been proved through a cry, then he will be acquitted. There's plenty of grotesque stories. I'll admit that, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. We have more, unfortunately, too many. I would also very much like to sign to the Left to want to talk about how we can resolve it. This is a suggestion on how to solve it. It is that we move the element of crime so that we have a responsibility to secure consent. You can't just say, well, I didn't understand that she didn't want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113194831	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113194833	The only question is whether this is the right solution to be found. Well, if you can't understand as a perpetrator that the fact that a girl breaks down in tears is as good as a "no" to not say much better, then there's something wrong. We must be very careful that we do not legislate without being absolutely sure that what we do then also creates a better legal situation than that which existed. And we must also remember that even in these cases, however hard it may sound, it is still a characteristic of the Danish legal system that we would rather let ten guilty people go free than judge an innocent person.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113194925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113194927	Yeah, it may sound really hard, but I'm gonna hurry up and give Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen is right, because that is what is characteristic of a legal society, namely that one is innocent until proven otherwise. What we are talking about is not the burden of proof; what we are talking about is what should be punishable. What is this act that is punishable? Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen chooses the example of the crying girl... that may be the most grotesque of them... but there's also the one with the sleeping girl. If you're having sex with someone who's sleeping or who's just so scared that she doesn't have the guts to quit, it's not rape today. It should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195003	Then there is a question from Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195006	It is actually a follow-up question on what Mrs Pernille Skipper asked me when I was on the platform. For there Mrs Pernille Skipper asked a question when I spoke about the fact that a lack of a 'no' should never mean 'yes', where she said 'yes', but that is the same thing as consent. And if that is the same as consent, that is, if Mrs Pernille Skipper thinks it is the same as consent, then my question is: does Mrs Pernille Skipper not just back up the model that the Left has put on the table, namely that a lack of a 'no' is not the same as a 'yes'?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195045	I totally regret it, but it is simply not a model. Well, it's not a model. It is not a crime that a lack of a 'no' is not a 'yes'. You can't write that into the law, so frankly, it doesn't make any sense. I believe that what Mrs Britt Baker thinks is what she says in paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution. 2 in the rape legislation today, namely that if you are unable to say no, it is rape. That paragraph, of course, exists, and so must it, and I fully agree with that. It could be used more in some cases, and I would very much like to take a look at that too. But if I understand Mrs Britt Baker correctly, does Mrs Britt Baker say that there must be a 'no', or should there be a 'yes'? There is simply no proposal here, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195147	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195148	[Sound emission]...that Mrs. Pernille Skipper supports our proposal. I mean, in my world there is a huge difference between actively saying yes, active action or not saying no. With this suggestion, you're going to have the perpetrator convicted of the girl who's crying. She doesn't get to say no, but it's clear that she means no by crying. That is clear and clear. That perpetrator will then have a different legal position and will have to be judged by something other than today. That must be clear. Mrs Pernille Skipper used the same words herself, namely that when we agree that a lack of a 'no' is not the same as a 'yes', it is a step in the right direction, and if Mrs Pernille Skipper means it, then I just think she should back the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195249	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195250	Well, I just can't support something I don't understand. Well, I can't. I don't understand. In the situation you can say yes indirectly, unsaid, with touch, with words and with so much. You can say no indirectly, unsaid, with words or by pushing away. Or you can shut up. And a consent-based proposal that we say there should be means that quiet is the same as no. There has to be a yes. And if that is what Mrs Britt Baker believes to be the model of the Left, then it is indeed very similar to the one we are discussing in a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195337	There's one more question, and it's from Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195340	Thank you. I think we all agree in this Chamber that there are problems in this area which we must also resolve, and I think it has been a positive debate. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about the speech, because the rapporteur mentioned a few specific examples of judgments. And some of the things I have noticed when I have been sitting and reading through a few of the cases so much mentioned and the judgments in them have been one of the cases and I am quite sure that this is one of the cases mentioned by the rapporteur, where the judges in a case actually agree to judge the persons referred to while the judges think otherwise. At least there is disagreement, and that leads to a failure to judge. And in this case we can discuss whether the rules do not work in this way, in the sense that the legal judges consider that this is where we have to fight down, and then there is a division. So we can discuss whether the consent law would have worked equally in those cases. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: has the Enhedslisten thus looked through a greater number of judgments and considered how many specific cases it could have given rise to more judgments if legislation had been changed to a definition of consent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195507	I'll give it to you, sir. Peter Kofod is absolutely right. As I also said in my speech and now I hope I actually got it said, because it was on my paper that many of these very violent cases will be changed later. I mean, they're gonna be appealed, and then the High Court's gonna do the same thing. And my guess will be that in this particular case we are talking about, the judgment will also be changed because it is as grotesque as it is. My point about mentioning them was not, in fact, that it is not only to secure judgment in those cases, because in those cases too, you are still looking away at whether the woman has fulfilled her responsibility to resign. And only if you prove that she couldn't quit, will she have no responsibility on her shoulders. My point is precisely that it is just as much a question of culture, what is proper and proper behaviour and what signal we send with the legislation we have. So it's not just the grotesque stuff, it's also the culture of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195607	I can look at sir. Peter Kofod, he wants to speak again, and he gets it now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195614	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. The reason I ask the question is that I often think this solution is being brought into the debate when we see a verdict that actually pricks most of us and where we think: it is certainly not a system that works when you can come up with this either. Then you can read the sentence some time later, and then you can think: It was amazing that you could get to it. And what I find interesting to get illuminated is what handles you can turn on in this system to make sure it looks something different and that more people are convicted. You should not be judged if you are innocent, but I think most people recognise that there is some room to give here and that more people could have been convicted. I'm just trying to slap myself into which model we can then choose that best achieves that purpose. It's just a comment. I really do not have a question, but if I had to ask a question, it was just to repeat what I asked last, i.e. whether Enhedslisten has some kind of documentation. Because I think that one of the things that might be interesting was to clarify how these models would work, if they were to be laid down over a larger number of judgments, also some that had led to acquittal to see where the cut was laid.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195731	No, we haven't sat through a greater number of sentences meticulously. I simply wish we had the time and the resources for it, but we do not. However, there are also various studies from the University of Copenhagen which investigate both victims of violence and false reports. There's a lot of research on this. Can it be said that consent-based legislation would encapsulate all cases? No. However, I think that would have two consequences. Firstly, it would lead to more notifications, I hope, if we also got something done about the system, as Mr. Peter Kofod also spoke about in his rapporteur's speech. More reviews are a prerequisite for us to have more convictions, I think. Secondly, there would also be some of those cases, I think, where there is a verdict today, where you would see a conviction, and that is because the grotesque and the very complex cases are not the only ones. There's a large intergroup, and I'd be happy to show you, Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod some more examples of judgments that I am sure would have led to conviction with this legislation. But it cannot save everyone, it is quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195844	Then another one came with me, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195850	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. And thank you for putting forward the proposal, which we very much support. This is a difficult area and something needs to be done. I would like to ask the rapporteur, on the basis of an example of a PhD a few years ago in East Jutland's police department, about reports of rape, where it was discovered that when female officers accepted the notification, 76 per cent went. of them to the courts, whereas less than half, in fact only 40%, went to the courts if it was a man who received the notification. And there is my question: does the rapporteur also believe that legislation on consent could affect the standards and behaviour of the authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113195946	Firstly, I would like to thank the alternative for coming along. Now we finally have a united opposition about this, and it means a lot. It was a small victory in a longer fight, so nice that you are there. Will this mean a change of culture in the police force because I see it as a cultural problem in the police? It can be a part of that. If you are going to give a little credit to the current government, a lot has actually been done in this area as regards the training of officers and how to accept victims. I know we're not in the house, but something's happening. And yes, of course it would also mean something to the way the police view rape victims and accept rape victims if we made the provision differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200042	With that we thank Mrs Pernille Skipper. However, I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, where I sense that the debate will continue. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200102	The debate will open with the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200128	Thank you. The purpose of the resolution is to require the government to introduce a quota ceiling of 0-20 permits per year for the purchase of a holiday home by foreigners in Denmark. In the comments on the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution include: The proposal is based on the fact that there is a shortage of residential cottage areas and that the Ministry of Justice has a lax administrative practice and therefore provides too many permits. Before I come to the government's position on the proposal, I would like to explain briefly how the rules on buying summer houses have been put together. It is the case that if you are currently resident in Denmark, you should not have permission from the Ministry of Justice to buy a holiday home in Denmark. The Ministry of Justice is looking into whether the person has his permanent and permanent home in Denmark. If you do not currently live in Denmark, but have previously resided in this country for at least five years, you also need no permission from the Ministry of Justice to buy a holiday home in Denmark. On the other hand, if you are not resident in Denmark and have not had it in the past for at least five years, you must have a permit from the Ministry of Justice to buy a holiday home in Denmark. This can be achieved if you have a special connection with Denmark, and here the Ministry of Justice looks at the extent of previous stays in Denmark and whether there is a family, linguistic or cultural connection with Denmark. If you have such a special connection with the country, you can obtain permission from the Ministry of Justice to buy a holiday home in Denmark, and that is entirely in accordance with the legislation in this area. And I say that just to eliminate any misunderstandings. The government and the Danish People's Party agree so far that both parties want to preserve the summer house protocol. However, as can be seen from the government base, the government wishes to examine the possibility of using experimentally selected summer cottage areas so that foreigners should not be allowed to buy holiday homes in these areas. In other words, the government will look at the possibility of expanding on an experimental basis the access of foreigners to buy holiday homes in areas where it is difficult to sell holiday homes • contrary to the intention of the resolution to restrict access. The background is that it will potentially create activity and development in areas of Denmark where demand for holiday homes is limited. However, as I said, we will only open up an experimental system if it does not jeopardise the summer-house protocol. But that is not what we are discussing here today. Now we are dealing with the specific motion for a resolution. And it will also come to the conclusion that the Ministry of Justice has considered that it will not be possible to implement the resolution within the framework of the summer cottage protocol. After all, the summer cottage protocol is a Danish special scheme for foreigners to buy a holiday home in Denmark, which we negotiated in 1993 when we acceded to the Maastricht Treaty. The protocol allows us to maintain the existing legislation on the purchase of summer houses by foreigners, which existed in 1993 when the protocol was adopted. Without the summer cottage protocol, because of the rules of EU law on free movement, we will not be able to impose the condition that foreigners should be allowed to buy summer cottage in Denmark. However, the protocol does not allow Denmark to tighten the rules in relation to what was in force back in 1993. The proposal to introduce a quota ceiling, i.e. a ceiling on the number of permits, would tighten the legislation in force and would run counter to the terms of the summer-house protocol. It is also the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that the motion for a resolution will tighten the rules in force and that the proposal will therefore not be implemented within the framework of the summer cottage protocol. As the government agrees with the Danish People's Party that we want to respect the summer house protocol, we cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200518	Thank you, Minister. There are questions. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200524	I have to say that I will allow myself to disagree completely with the Minister of Justice in the conclusion of the Minister of Justice. It is the case that the summer house rule is based on the 1959 law on the acquisition of property. The law on the acquisition of property does not specify the exceptions to which the Minister of Justice refers. On the contrary, it merely states that the purpose of the possibility of dispensing is to grant derogations in respect of matters relating to the attainment of the five years' residence requirement. I mean, if you're about to get to where you have five years, you can be dispensed. You can also see that if you read the preparatory work for the 1959 Act. I do not know whether the Minister has taken the trouble to do so. But I would like to ask the Minister if he has done so. And then I would like to ask whether the Minister thinks that it is unproblematic, no matter how many summer houses come into the hands of foreigners. Well, the development we've seen over the last seven years can just continue, so it's 900 in 7 years and 1,800 in 14 years, or how does the Minister of Justice view it? And if so, how does the Minister of Justice intend to counter this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200635	I haven't read the title from, was it 1959? I think that was said. I'll be honest with you. We can certainly cut off a lot, and this is what happens if we stay within the summer cottage protocol, basically also about what the political attitude is about, whether foreigners should be allowed to buy a summer cottage in Denmark or not. Of course, there's an edge there. But we're not even there. More permits have been granted; more applications have also been refused because more applications may be made. It's not just something you just get. If you look at the number of summer houses in the Kingdom of Denmark and see what is on foreign hands and what permits there are, you have to ask what kind of problem we are dealing with. I have some doubts about that. Because it's not just like that without any connection to Denmark at all. It is not the case that there are 50,000 coming from Saudi Arabia and buying summer houses here in Denmark. It is Norwegians, Swedes, Germans with ties in some way to Denmark who primarily buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200741	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200742	The Minister of Justice is capable of hitting the nail in what the Minister of Justice says. For the Minister of Justice says that we cannot tighten the rules in relation to what is in force. But now the Minister of Justice and his ministry are in the process of relaxing the rules by granting more and more exemptions. That is to say, as the Minister of Justice grants more exemptions, you will see that you cannot turn this back. Because following the Minister for Justice's idea will mean that the European Court of Justice will base itself on the fact that it has actually chosen to have a more relaxed approach to it. So is the Minister not at all concerned that what the Minister of Justice has put in place really means that the Danish summer house rule will be weakened continuously because of the way the Ministry of Justice handles these exemption requests?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200838	Well, I just don't agree. We are not relaxing the rules at all. The rules are as they are. If you live in Denmark, you can buy. If you've lived here for five years, you can buy. If you do not have it, you must submit an application and show a special attachment. There are a lot of examples of how this can be. One should almost try to see some of the applications that have been sent in. I know an example of a German citizen who has spent 50 holidays in Denmark with a duration of 1-3 weeks spread over a period of 28 years. In addition, the applicant has a family-in-law in Denmark and can understand and speak Danish. That's an example of how you can get a permit. There are others who are seeking, but we have not relaxed the rules. I simply do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200928	The next one is sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113200930	The resolution before us today shows that the number of permits has increased from 54 in 2007 to 308 in 2017. Then I just want to know if the Minister can confirm that figure and whether that figure reflects a general trend. I would also ask the Minister to explain the basis for that increase in the figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201004	I can confirm the number as I just heard it. That's right. In 2017, 308 permits were granted. And I have to be completely honest and say that I haven't been through all years and seen what it's been like and what's of jump. That covers the fact that there are more applications. You could also turn it around and say that there are more refusals. For it is clear that when more people come looking for them, there are also more who get permission if they are within the framework and within the rules, and if they are not within the rules, there are also more who are refused. So that's it. If you can read some trends in it, there may be an opportunity to look at it during the committee procedure. What has been the trend? Is there any special jump? But otherwise it is an expression of 308 who meet the conditions of 156 Norwegians, 88 Germans, 21 Danish citizens and 19 Swedish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201103	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201105	I may not quite understand what the Minister means in terms of the rules, because there are some very clear rules when it comes to getting it without a derogation. Then there are some rules that require a derogation application. But the rules for obtaining a derogation are not quite so clear, because that is an assessment. So what does the Minister really mean by complying with the rules? Having said that, the Minister's reply is that there has been an increase and that we can expect that increase to continue logically.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201150-2	First of all, there are the two points where it gives itself: If you live in Denmark and have been doing it together for 5 years, then you can buy. Otherwise, it is true that it is an assessment based on the connection, linguistic, cultural, family-related, there are a large number of things. The preparatory work for the acquisition law states that the licensing system must be administered liberally, in particular with regard to persons and companies associated with Denmark. And then the Justice Department evaluates it on the basis of it. I recognise that we may disagree on this, but I simply do not agree that if we have a situation as in 2017 with the summer houses sold and if we look at it historically, we have a huge problem with our summer houses being taken over by foreigners. I simply do not think that is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201250	With that, we thank the Minister. Then we are actually ready to start the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party, who is on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201310	Thank you for the floor, President. I must say this very clearly so that there is no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party fully support and fully support the summer house rule that we have had for so many years now. We share the authors' concern about the increase in the number, but we also believe that, with some of the comments made by the Minister for Justice, but also in general, we will encourage those parties who share that concern. I have the feeling that it is a fairly broad majority to sit down and write a report where it may be agreed that this first needs to be examined a little more closely. Secondly, we must look at what is behind this increase. Is the increase merely an indication of the end of the financial crisis and of the fact that in Germany and Norway there are even very large increases in income which mean that they can suddenly enter the Danish summer house market? Is it an expression of, as I have also heard someone explaining it, that there are several South Schleswign Danes, i.e.. Danes with German citizenship, that is, part of the Danish minority, which is now beginning to seek? Or is it an expression of what I would find interesting to see in the administration of these exemption applications that a little too much emphasis is placed on liberalising what the Minister of Justice said? Or is the explanation perhaps the one expressed last night in the 21.30 news report that it is only a question of the Danish authorities starting to provide guidance on how to actually seek? What I am trying to say is that we fully share the concern. We are totally behind the summer house rule, but we also think that there is a basis here for examining it further and thus also being able to make the right decision on how to take action against it here, rather than the proposal for a ceiling that the proposers are proposing. It's the social democracy's approach to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201533	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201536	I would then like to thank the rapporteur for agreeing that there is cause for concern, because the Minister for Justice apparently did not think there was. I believe that the rapporteur is quite right in saying that it is important to be given very specific guidance on how to fill in this application for permission for the acquisition of secondary residence, which is on the Danish Civil Service website. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, for the sake of good order, whether the rapporteur will see it as a problem if, for example, we are going to have to deal with it as a matter of urgency. In seven years' time, 800 licences will have been granted, as it would be if we were to follow developments over the past seven years, or if, in 12, 13, 14 years' time, we might have 1,600 permits. In other words, does the rapporteur think that the figure in itself is also a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201631-2	Yes, I do, because the whole basis of the summer cottage rule is that we have some areas and that we have also decided that we want the Danish summer cottage market in a certain way: 1) that prices do not run off, so that ordinary Danish families do not have the opportunity either to acquire a summer cottage themselves or to be able to rent it at a reasonable rental price, and 2) that it also reflects the wishes that are in many of these local areas. I understand that there are areas in Denmark where there is a great desire to get more foreigners into the market. That is why we think it is worth examining, as the government has also proposed in the government's constitution, whether it can be done and how it should be done, etc. But basically in most summer cottage areas around Denmark you are not interested in foreigners buying in, because basically it will also mean a decrease in turnover in the local area. So the short answer is: Yes, we would be worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201731	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left Party. Even though there is a larger party, that is the way it is, I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen that the rapporteur for the proposers should come later, so we are taking the smaller side now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113201756	That's right, and we're gonna have to figure out what size we're gonna have to solve after the election. Thank you for the floor. This is not the first time we have had a discussion of the summer house rule or the summer house protocol, as the right one is called, in this Chamber, but it is usually with a desire to remove it. So we're not discussing that today. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Danish People's Party to introduce an annual quota ceiling of 0-20 derogations. I do not know if a quota of 0 can be technically called, but leave it at that. I must disappoint the Danish People's Party that we cannot support the proposal, but I would like to explain a little more why. We fully agree that tourism plays a very important role in development and employment throughout the country. This is true in large cities, but it certainly also applies to rural areas which do not quite experience the same growth rates as elsewhere in the country, and these are areas we want to support. As the Minister also explained, the government wants to examine the possibility of relaxing foreigners' access to the purchase of holiday homes in certain areas of Denmark, where summer house sales today go a little slowly. And that speaks in the opposite direction of the Danish People's Party's proposal. However, we agree with DF so far that, of course, we also want to maintain the summer cottage protocol, which is why it is important that if we change existing legislation, we do so within the framework of the summer cottage protocol. And there have expert lawyers in the Ministry of Justice thus considered that DF's proposal for a quota ceiling would be a tightening of the current rules, and therefore it would be contrary to the terms of the summer house protocol. So we want to go in a slightly different direction than the proposers, but in any case we can and, as such, it is the most important thing that does not support a proposal that risks gambling with our special rules in the summer cottage protocol, and on that basis we cannot support the proposal. And I would also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that the position of the Left is shared.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202010	Thank you. The question raised by Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202016	In other words, from our chair, those who are gambling with the summer house rule, the government at the Ministry of Justice, who, with this very, very lenient derogation practice, are in the process of changing the basis from when we entered the Community with the summer house rule in baggage, because then it happened precisely on the basis of a 1959 law with a very restrictive approach to how to grant derogations. Then the government introduces changing governments, presumably a very, very lenient access to dispensing, and now, when we then try to do away with it, the very same government comes and says: Well now we have simply dragged it so far that we cannot do away with it, because it will be seen as a tightening within the EU, and then it will all fall. Does it not at least give the rapporteur of the Left reason to consider whether it is a good idea to further relax or dispense with the summer house rule if this means that the summer house rule will de facto lapse?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202125	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202126	So, in any case, a ceiling, that is to say a quota ceiling with some arbitrary figure, would not be the right way to go; it would certainly have to be looked at the conditions for obtaining a derogation. As I have been informed, there has been no change in the criteria for obtaining a holiday home, but there are simply more who are seeking, and if there are more who are seeking, there are also more who are getting the permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202158	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202200	Yes, there are more people seeking, but the problem is also that fewer and fewer people are being refused and more and more are being promised. After all, it is very, very difficult to get to the bottom of what kind of administration is in the Ministry of Justice. I can only see that there is this development and that it is crystal clear, and that is why we have to do something to stem it, otherwise we will end up in a situation where it is not us from the Danish People's Party, but the government itself that is at risk of capturing the summer house rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202238	Well, that's not true. The number that is refused or authorized is thus the same ratio compared to the number that is sought. So there has been no increase in the number of persons permitted to apply. If there are 100 who are seeking, and then 70 who are getting the permission, it is the same as if there are 10 who are seeking and there are 7 who are getting the permission. It's about whether you meet the requirements or not. If you meet the requirements, you get the permission, and if you don't meet them, you get a refusal. So it is not true that there should have been a slippage in the way the DF indicates, but I agree that a larger number have come overall, and there may be many reasons for that, so there are more who are applying for these permits.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202336	Then there is a question from Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202342	I just need to be absolutely sure that I understand it correctly, i.e. that the real Liberal in the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, believes that it should be the case that in a free market where we trade with each other, where supply and demand regulate things, it is quite fine that there is an item on the shelf in Denmark that we refuse to sell to a special group of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202408	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202409	I can easily understand the objections raised by Mrs Christina Egelund. I certainly can. That is also why the government's basis has agreed to look at the possibility of relaxing the summer house rule. That is, of course, a partial response to the point of view of Mrs Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202432	Mrs. Christina Egelund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202438	[Sound out]... that the genuine Liberal in the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, is pleased that there is another liberal party in our cooperation that exercises liberal influence on our intergovernmental cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202452	Anyone who walks with small steps will also come forward, just maybe not as quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202459	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten • the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113202509	Thank you. We support the intention of Enhedslisten behind this proposal. And what I mean by intention, I'll just come back to. Denmark is a small country, we have a small population and we are surrounded by large countries with large populations. So if the market, the free, highly sung, wonderful capitalist market is just allowed to prevail, then it is a matter of time before a large part of the summer cottage areas in Denmark are inhabited by people from other countries. It may then be thought that there is no problem in; one might think that it would actually do nothing if it were people from other countries who owned summer homes in Denmark. Some people also love the fact that properties in the inner city of Copenhagen are owned by foreigners and are not inhabited. Well, you can have many of those kinds of perceptions, but that's not Enhedslisten's view. We want summer homes in Denmark first and foremost to be available to the people who have a permanent and permanent residence in Denmark. I would like to stress that this has nothing to do with citizenship. It has nothing to do with being a Dane. Well, it's not some nationalistic crusade. You can be of any nationality. However, if you are resident in Denmark, it is important that the limited resources of the summer cottage areas are also available to those who live in Denmark. That is why we support and have always supported the summer house rule, which has existed since 1959 and has been written into the context of our EU membership. I do not know whether the first time was written into 1973 or whether it was in 1993, I cannot quite see that through, but it is at least part of the basis for our EU membership. At the same time, we also support the idea that there should be a derogation from the requirement to have a residence in Denmark on the one hand and to have previously lived in Denmark on the other. We think that there should be a derogation for it, because there may be people who have a special link with Denmark who justify a derogation. We think that this should be an opportunity, that is, that the derogation system should be there. However, it must be a derogation. That is why it is clear that if a derogation system leads to a much increasing number of authorisations being granted each year, it will cease to be a derogation scheme. We have to say that this is a huge increase from 54 permits in 2007 to 308 in 2017. We want to look at what this is about in committee and we will be able to be convinced that there have been similar ups and downs in the past. But when we look at those numbers, we just have to say that the trend is marked. That would mean, of course, everything else being equal, a development that we are opposed to. If the level of exemption continues to increase, then we agree that this risks undermining the argument for the exemption rule at all. But we also believe that this will, of course, lead to an increase in prices. This is being said very openly from some of the municipalities that would like to allow foreigners to buy summer houses: it is a question of rising prices. There we have just the basic starting point, then, that for us it is more important that sosu-assistant Margit Hansen and metal worker Hassan Akmed, who happens to have three kids, can afford to buy a bang hut where they can take their holidays and their weekends than that people from other countries who have no special ties with Denmark can have the opportunity to buy a house in Denmark because it is cheap for them. I mean, we're not so fixed by the free market where it's just market forces that have to decide. We have some reservations about that, including in this context. Therefore, there must be a reduction in at least the increase in the number of transactions under the current derogation practice. In the committee work we are open to discussing the ceiling proposed by the Danish People's Party. We are particularly open to discussing whether it is not very low set at 20. We may think it is. But we are also open to discussing the possibility of not securing a ceiling through a figure, but of securing a ceiling or a number through the guidelines and criteria for derogations. When it's a little important, it's because it's a little weird to have a ceiling if the applicant no. In fact, 21 have more reason to have a derogation than the others. However, our starting point is that we are positive about the proposal and we will also take a positive view of the Social Democrats' proposal for a possible report.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203031	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203032	I think there were many reservations about supporting this proposal we are debating. There is a lot of talk about the market and stuff, and I think a little, that if people want to buy a holiday home, it may also be because, if they come from Sweden, Croatia or France, they actually want to take a holiday in Denmark, be up here and enjoy nature. But I would like to know if there are any facts that support this, that the sky drift of prices is due to the fact that people from some countries, who may even have less purchasing power than Danes normally have, would like to buy a house in Denmark and enjoy their holidays and leisure time in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203115	Now we don't decide where people buy. I can only note that near the place I have a holiday home, the attractive holiday homes have risen dramatically in price, and that is because there are only a few of them. That's the way it is. If there is a high demand for a relatively small number of holiday homes, there is a number that is not dramatically increasing, because there are limits to how much can be allocated to cottage area, at least if you want to take environmental considerations and defend nature etc. It cannot be avoided, then, how should this be done? If demand is greater than supply, it will lead, as with everything else, to price increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203208	It is clear that there are a few places, for example north of Copenhagen, right off the coast, where the houses are very expensive, while they are affordable for several different people inside the country. I'd like to know if we have any facts. I remember when we last discussed what it really meant to have this summer cottage rule, we couldn't find any figures on what it really meant to have this summer cottage rule, specifically it applied to prices. There were some who began to say that it would kill the summer cottage areas because there would be no people coming and taking summer holidays there in some of the many thousands of houses that are for sale. So what kind of facts are we building this fear of rising prices and so on? On?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203249-2	It is based on an analysis of the history of capitalism over several hundred years about the free market, nothing more. It may well be that there is an exception here, but then we have to look forward to, Rasmus Nordqvist, that we really use this opportunity to try to ask for the facts on the table. I think there are some of the facts you cannot get, because it will be guesswork, but we can move on and we also have an interest in moving forward. As always, we are only interested in being convinced of something else if something else is right. But the basic point of departure for us is that the workman and the sosu assistant from Glostrup have more right to buy a holiday home in Denmark than people who come from the United States, Canada or the Philippines or Germany, or where they now come from, unless they have a special connection with Denmark. If other countries have the same approach, we really think that is quite reasonable. We do not think that Danes necessarily have a legal right to own Greek islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203356	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard, and welcome to Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203406	Thank you very much. After all, there is such a late Tuesday evening something encouraging about hearing a socialist at least describe the market mechanisms, if not embrace them. In fact, I always feel that when a party puts forward a motion for a resolution with which one does not necessarily agree, I always try to find some sort of nuance with which one can agree, or to recognise the issue, and then one simply disagrees with the tool or whatever it may be, in other words find something nice to say about that resolution. But I simply cannot do that here. I don't recognize the problem. I think the proposal is bad because what we are dealing with here is that the Danish People's Party is inventing a problem that does not exist in the real world. Because when you look at the figures, and I think we should, you can see that in 2017, 318, at least some 300 derogations were granted for foreigners primarily from Germany or Norway to buy a summer house in Denmark. We checked the numbers. Today there are about 13,000 holiday homes for sale. This means that the problem is that out of a supply of just over 13,000 units for sale now, we are at the market mechanisms, it is a very big problem that 318 of them are sold to someone who lives in Norway or in Germany. It is simply not an issue that I recognise exists in the real world. That is why I say that the Danish People's Party is inventing a problem that does not exist. That's one thing. The second thing is that if such a ceiling were to be introduced, how would it be administered? Because we have to have legislation based on objective criteria, and that is what we have in relation to these derogations. Do you have to grade the applicants who are? Let's say we had a ceiling of 20, and then maybe 300 people are looking, or whatever. So, do you have to graduated, which of those who apply, who then has the very warmest feelings for Denmark, or who has eaten the most meatballs, or who has had the most bathing holidays in the North Sea, or who loves the cousin that they may have in Denmark, and that is what matters most in their relationship? Well, how would you manage it? That's the one way to do it. The second may be that you say that then there is just a difference in legal status. Then has the applicant number. 20 one legal position, and applicant No. 21 has a different legal status. It's not some kind of legal society that I care about. I do not think it is surprising that the Liberal Alliance is opposed to this proposal. We think that this strange summer house rule, which we have, and which is our fifth reservation, should be completely abolished. I think it is a double standard when we then buy houses with pleasure in all sorts of places in Europe. The party leaders of the proposers themselves have a summer house in Greece, and there is no problem in that, but if someone comes from other countries and wants to buy a house in Denmark, then suddenly it is a very big problem. What remains is whether it is a problem that someone who lives in Norway buys a holiday home in Denmark. Of course you may think it is, despite the fact that at the same time you do not think it is a problem that someone who lives in Denmark buys a holiday home in Greece. No, I don't think that's a problem. I think this is an expression of protectionism on speed, and the Liberal Alliance is against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203740	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203743	I do not know whether Mrs Christina Egelund is aware of what square metre prices are on Rømø compared to Sild. If Mrs Christina Egelund had made the effort to check it out, perhaps Mrs Christina Egelund would be a little more concerned. The fact is that in Germany we have a hugely competitive audience, similar to the entire population of Denmark, just south of the border. If we lose the way that Mrs Christina Egelund argues, it will not be long before the west coast of Jutland is occupied again to say it as it is. Then the most expensive cottage properties on the entire west coast of Jutland will be bought by Germans, and there will not be a chance for a Dane to get his foot inside with that price level, not even for Liberal Alliance members... maybe a few. I am against this, and I do not understand why Mrs Christina Egelund is not at all concerned that we risk abyssing the Danish tourist industry if it is the way to introduce the policy of the Liberal Alliance. Does it really matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113203857	That was a lot of questions in one. To the first, whether I know the differences in square metre prices on Herring and on Rømø: No, not in detail, but I know they are more expensive on Herring than they are on Rømø. Today we have over 13,000 holiday homes for sale in Denmark, and 318 derogations have been granted, so I am sorry to say so, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, but the proportions just do not point to a problem, and I think I also said that in my rapporteur's speech; they simply do not. If the proportions were different, if there was a queue to buy a holiday home in Denmark, that is, if the Danes were queued up, if the supply was much less than the demand, then we had a problem, but we are not near being there. Am I so worried about the tourism industry? No, not at all. I myself have been working in the tourism industry for a very, very many years... just off the West Coast... and if there's something you want to applaud in that industry, then it's more foreign currency, more investment in Denmark. In other words, if the Germans want to return in larger numbers, just as we knew it back in the 1970s and 1980s, and if the Norwegians want to start vacationing again in Denmark, then it is a gift; that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204003	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204004	It is amazing that you can stand and say this and even say that you have had a past in the tourist industry. Well, the fact is that all of Denmark's tourism on the West Coast is not built up by large hotels as we know it from Greece and elsewhere; it is built up by small units in the form of summer houses. If those summer houses come on foreign hands, that is on foreign hands, who do not want to rent them, then you put Danish tourism into the most attractive area we have in Denmark at all, namely the west coast of Jutland. So it simply cannot be right that Mrs Christina Egelund can stand there with such a hovskisnovski attitude and say that it does not matter. It doesn't matter if these cottages are rented out or not rented out. And they will not be rented out if it is the case that it is people with millions of income, perhaps two-digit million income, who sit on those summer houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204056	I simply do not know where the questioner gets it from, that an average German, an average Nordman, an average Swede or an average Dutch, to start now just from the countries closest to us, has much greater purchasing power than an average Danish. That's not true. An average German has no higher purchasing power than an average Danish. It has been running that scaremongering from before we joined the EEC back in 1972, that if you let it go here, it would all, uh, be bought up by some billionaires, we had to understand who refuse to rent out their summer houses. Actually, you don't know anything about that. Well, what is the questioner based on? How do you know that a German is a worse businessman than one from Jutland who owns a summer house and likes to rent it out to make some money? How do you even know that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204139	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204143	I was touched by Mrs Christina Egelund's presentation. It almost sounded as if the only way to visit your favorite aunt in Denmark was to buy a holiday home. There are other ways, apart from the fact that we have to say that the Liberal Alliance is a member of a government which makes it incredibly difficult for people to come to Denmark on a tourist visa if, for example, they do not want to go to Denmark. comes from elsewhere, that is, if they come from Pakistan or if they come from Thailand or anywhere else. So this is about money and sales. That is what is at stake, and not the feelings that Liberal Alliance's rapporteur tried to put into it. The Liberal Alliance rapporteur mentions the 13 000 summer houses that are for sale and that there are only 300 applicants. But some of the 13,000 have probably been for sale for a long time and will probably remain so, but they are not bought by the 300. That's not what the reality is. The reality is not that the summer houses that are bought are the worst summer houses, which will then necessarily be renovated. That, among other things. In some places in Denmark, it is a relatively expensive holiday home that is bought, and so I would like to ask about the combination between the 13,000 and the 300: What would it really be used for?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204307	It is to be used to illustrate the proportions of the problem that is being built up. These are 318 exemptions, which then measure up to the 13,000 summer houses offered for sale, which, as far as I remember on a stand-by basis, have an average sales time of 255 days. Then the questioner says: 'Well, they are not the ones who are being bought.' But it's just that you can't buy something that's not for sale. I mean, what's being sold is for God's sake what's for sale.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204340	But it is not the case that all 13,000 people are in demand from abroad. There is a part of the 13,000 who are not even in demand by Danes. Well, that's the fact. That's the way it is. And that is why only a part of those who are for sale are in demand by Danes, and it is by chance also those who are in demand by foreigners. And that is why it has a consequence for the price. That goes without saying. Well, when there's a lot of people who want the same best things, it gets a consequence for the price. Then I agree with Mrs Christina Egelund that if we look at Germany, we can say that they are not richer than us, that the average is the same. But that also means that in a population of 80 or 90 million, or whatever it is, there are considerably more people who can afford to buy a holiday home for 4-5 million. kr., than there are Danes or residents because I don't care if people have a Danish passport or not. And that is why we will have the upward spiral, especially for the most attractive summer houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204448	There wasn't really any question, but a lot of attempts at finding out. Then I can ask a question: how does the questioner really know that these billionaire Germans are to be understood as buying only the most attractive summer houses in Denmark, i.e. the same ones the Danes would like to buy? Well, how do you know? Now we have been debating it since, yes, since before we entered the EEC, and there have been lots of stubblemen and scaremongerings that it would all be bought up by the Germans and that they are all just stinking rich and do not want to have a good business and not rent their houses out. The fact is, we don't know anything about that; it's something you're guessing. I have no prerequisites to believe that a German will act fundamentally different from a Dane when it comes to owning a house to actually stay in it, lend it to his friends and family, or rent it out if you can make a good business out of it. So, in my understanding, an average German in this respect is not much different than we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204544	Unfortunately, it is outside the Rules of Procedure to give Mr. Søren Søndergaard is allowed to reply, but I would like to thank Mrs Christina Egelund very much for the work she has done today. And welcome to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204558	This is not the first time since the elections that we are discussing the summer house rule, and, like the last time, the debate is running on a lot of assumptions and a lot of feelings that it is dangerous, that there is a lot coming from other countries and buying all our houses, and that it will leave our summer cottage areas deserted, because nobody wants to rent them out, and they may not even go there. However, like the last time we discussed it, I would like to say that I am not afraid that there will be some foreign dancers, some Swedes, Germans, Frenchmen and are part of the summerland we have in the summerhouse areas and that they enjoy their free time in this country. I think that can only make it exciting. It may even help to create life in some of the areas where it is difficult to sell these 13,000 holiday homes for sale. So it's kind of an emotional discussion where we whip up emotions and have a fear of something. The comments also state that it is the opinion of the proposers that it is important to limit the number of holiday homes owned by foreign nationals and foreign companies that do not live in Denmark. That is not a position that we share in the alternative. We think it is nice if some people would like to have a holiday home in Denmark and enjoy it with their friends and with their family etc. That is why we are not going to support this proposal surprisingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204733	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are two brief points to make, and the first is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204743	I remember the last time, when I was in a discussion about this, the counter-arguments sounded about the same as they have sounded here. It was on the issue of the obligation of residence in the City of Copenhagen in connection with the sale of wealthy properties around the harbour. Well, there was the same argument: how do we know? And foreigners can choose to live here etc. And today everyone knows that we have a huge problem, and now there is nothing we can do about it. Well, now it's impossible to do anything about it. That is why I think: what is the problem in saying that the recreational thing called having a holiday home in Denmark is reserved for people living in Denmark? And that it is also reserved for people who have lived in Denmark, and for my sake we can extend it to even more of that type. But then we have some criteria if people have to buy beyond it. What's the problem with that? After all, no one is prevented from taking a holiday in Denmark. Or is it a requirement that you should be allowed to have a summer residence in Denmark? In this context, I would also like to hear what Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist thinks about e.g. Malta's model, which is also about protecting their house market in relation to foreign purchases. Is it also crazy that they have made such protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113204903	I think there is a very important difference in relation to what Mr. Søren Søndergaard asks, because there is a duty of residence. There is no obligation to live in summer houses. It's the whole idea of cottages, you know, that you don't have to live there. So I can't even understand that comparison. I am very pleased with the obligation to live, and I would like us to have the whole obligation of residence strengthened in order to secure our cities against the fact that there are precisely these investment properties where there are no people living, but where they are simply used to be rented out for short periods. And that is something you also look at elsewhere in Europe, in other words how you can be inspired by the Danish rules because you have big problems with it. But here we are dealing with summer houses. And that means that it's about people who want a place to come back to again and again and don't want to go on vacation in different places. You want a place to be stuck on your vacations. And there I just don't see the big problem in that it's someone from Germany or Sweden or France who wants to have a summer house in Denmark and come back again and again to an area they think is beautiful and lovely and enjoy being in. I don't understand the problem. I can understand the emotions, there's plenty of them in this. I remember last time we were asking for facts in this area... now the facts were talked before we couldn't get anyone, the last time we discussed it, because they simply couldn't be obtained. Because it's only assumptions that it's some dangerous people who buy our houses and don't want to rent them out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205023	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205024	Of course, what is compared is not the obligation to live, because it is not for summer houses. The comparison was that it was said that there would be no problem, that is that it would not happen at all. But it happened, and the problem is that once it has happened, it is too late. But what I'd like to ask, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist on, is: Is that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's view that ordinary employees in Denmark can afford to buy a holiday home in Denmark today? Or is it sir? Rasmus Nordqvist's view that there are problems with ordinary employees in Denmark being able to afford a holiday home in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205108	I know that for ordinary employees it is really difficult to buy some real estate and also for people who are not ordinary employees, but earn very little • if they have nothing they own in advance and can borrow money in for payout etc. And that is the whole problem of our entire housing market. But again, I just can't understand it. Because what we are discussing here is whether there may be foreigners who buy a holiday home and come and take their holidays in Denmark or not. That's what we're discussing. We are discussing whether there should be a quota of between 0 and 20, that is what we are discussing, that is what the proposal is about. And I have to say, I do not share that view. I don't share that fear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205146	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205148	Well, then, you have to assume that mr. Rasmus Nordqvist believes that the director of the Holiday Rentals Association, Carlos Villaro Lassen, is an anxiety person. Because he has indicated that he considers it a problem that there are so many holiday homes landing on foreign hands and has also pointed out that it is a problem that so few rent holiday homes and that those taken over by foreigners are not rented out. We have the problem that holiday rentals can rent many more summer houses • many more summer houses • but almost every time a holiday home is sold to a foreigner, it goes out of line. Then it's used by the alien when he's here, but it's not used for rental. And since the entire Danish tourist industry, at least in coastal areas, is built on holiday rentals, that is a problem. Is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist doesn't agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205252	What I think is really interesting is that one is first held, that the problem is that ordinary employees cannot afford to buy houses, and then that it is that they are not made into rental properties. Well, these are funny issues. It's each one's little perspective you're sitting with. What is interesting is whether you have checked, if there are now some houses, whether they are empty because people are not using them, or whether it is because they lend them to their friends instead. Is it because they do not know about the arrangements that are in some places on the West Coast, which we are specifically talking about where you can actually get someone to handle the rent for you? Do you know these arrangements when you buy a house? So I think there's so many more layers in this than a number of assumptions that so far are all I've heard in this area. Once again, I have to say that I think it is a very, very protectionist proposal which I do not in any way share. I don't think it's dangerous that some people want to keep their holidays in Denmark if they come from Germany, Norway, Sweden etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205345	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205346	Do you know these arrangements? Yes, we must believe that you do, because many of those who are granted a derogation are granted a derogation because they have been on holiday in Denmark a few times, and they have done so typically by renting a holiday home. So you have to assume they know what the rules are. I simply do not understand that the alternative can have that approach to things. I thought the alternative was a party that cared about sharing economics and thought it was a very good idea that you split your apartment and rented it out to people, and that you shared your summer house and rented it out to people. In fact, I had the impression that the alternative had that view. But I understand that what the alternative has in this area is exactly the same as that which is the view of the Liberal Alliance. I don't understand a meter of that, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205432	I don't think I was talking about how I think it's awful if people have a cottage and they lend it to some friends. I'm just saying, there's a lot of assumptions in this. There are assumptions that they do not want to rent out, and then I just ask whether you have checked whether that is really what is right or whether they are borrowing it out in advance. Are they here for all their vacations? In other words, there are so many assumptions which are basically based on the quote I read, namely the fear that foreign citizens are buying holiday homes. That's what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205500	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no more brief comments. I don't see any radical politicians, so we're gonna go over to mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205515	Since SF's usual rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, was prevented from coming tonight, it was I who won the prize by being allowed to talk about this. In SF we are in favour of the summer house rule. In 1972 it was part of the conditions for Danish membership of the EEC. The intention was to protect the Danish summer cottage market from large price increases, which could be the consequence if foreigners were free to buy Danish summer cottages. In addition, it is more economical for foreigners to rent the Danish summer houses rather than own them themselves. This will make better use of it for the benefit of the tourist areas. The rule has been challenged several times, as for example. At the end of the 1980s, the liberalization of capital movements within the European Union took place. As the comments on the motion for a resolution show, the European Court of Justice is particularly aware of the Danish summer house rule. It is therefore true that for many derogations in themselves there is a risk of undermining the summer house rule. I would also say that we have been surprised that there are so many exemptions that have been provided by the Ministry of Justice. We think this is a good opportunity to tighten up. Whether a real quota ceiling is an option, we think we should be searched for, and whether it should be 20 or a higher number, we can certainly also discuss, or whether we should perhaps look at tightening up the guidelines themselves in order to get a derogation. It could also be an option. What we in the SF are interested in and very willing to do is to find solutions in one way or another that can help to curb the many exemptions from the summer house rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205706	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There was a request for a brief comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. We'd better bring that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205715	It's kind of just to sign for mr. Karsten Hønge's concerns. Prior to this proposal, I was able to read out the Danish Parliament's discussion of the connection to the European common markets. Among other things, there were: a couple of excellent speeches by Jens Maigaard, Mr. Karsten Hønge's former party colleague, who also focused on this question of access to retain what was he saying? I would just like to sign that the Socialist People's Party still believes that it is essential to hold on to this, and I hope that we can find a way of doing so, which means that the number of derogations does not run completely from us. Because it's at least about to do that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205811	Then we should pat each other on the shoulder, because I think I also mentioned that I think it is well seen by the Danish People's Party, when they are actually aware of this increase and therefore also suggest some sort of solution to it. Because I do not think that we can just let things continue. I think it is a good thing that the Danish People's Party takes up this case and focuses on it, and that it is aware that this development has taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205834	The questioner? No. Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. We do not have any more rapporteurs who have asked to speak, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr von der Vring. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113205853	I would like to begin by thanking the parties of the Folketing for their consideration of the proposal. I am very pleased that there is a majority in favour of doing something about this at least. There is a majority of Parliament's parties who are concerned about the prospect that the number of derogations will run out of control. So of course a very great thank you to the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party for being willing to look positively at a way of solving this challenge. Because there is no doubt at all that this is a major challenge and a problem that needs to be resolved. In the Danish People's Party, as the proposal also shows, we are very concerned about the development that has made it possible to grant more exemptions year after year from the rules that you must have resided in Denmark for 5 years in order to acquire a summer house. As can also be seen from the figures, developments have been particularly rapid since 2010, when significant increases in commitments have been made year by year and the gap between the number of commitments and refusals is decreasing. As you know, the cottage rule is a reservation that Denmark was born with in the EU and in the EC, as it was part of the prerequisite for Denmark's accession to the EU and filled quite a lot in the debate when the Folketing took a position on membership prior to the vote in 1972. The concern was then and still is that the abolition of the summer cottage rule will result in massive price increases in the Danish summer cottage market, as a result of the fact that we in Denmark have a significant coastline and that just south of the Danish-German border there is also a very affordable audience whose entry to the Danish summer cottage market will be able to push prices up. Should one be in doubt about this, one can look at the difference in cottage prices between, for example. Rømø and Silt. The abolition of the summer cottage rule would therefore in practice exclude many Danes from being able to acquire a summer cottage in Denmark at all. To this must be added, of course, the depopulation of summer cottage areas resulting from the fact that well upholstered people without the need or wish to rent their summer cottage take over the properties. Why is this so relevant to the issue of exemption from the residence obligation? This is because the Danish derogation practice is an issue on which the European Court of Justice has the right to decide, since the summer house protocol is part of the EU Treaty basis. On various occasions both the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General have expressed their views on the possible problems of e.g.: to provide increased access to the use of holiday homes as a full-year residence or to start experimental arrangements with sales to foreigners in demarcated areas and pointed out that there is a risk that Denmark will lose the right to maintain the summer cottage protocol. When the European Court of Justice has given its opinion on other derogations to Member States' obligations under the Treaty, for example: in relation to Austria, the Court stressed that these could be preserved if they had been an uninterrupted component of the legal order of the Member State since the adoption of the relevant provision of the Treaty. However, with a derogation practice in which the Ministry of Justice gives more than twice as many commitments as refusals and where the four criteria for derogating from the residence obligation, namely previous residence in Denmark, family ties, linguistic or cultural interest in Denmark, or association with a particular property, must be regarded as unfounded in the light of the acquisition law of 1959, there is a risk that the European Court of Justice will be able to reach the conclusion that the acquisition law has not in practice applied, which is why the summer house rule may fall. Why are the exemption criteria of the Ministry of Justice so unimportant? In fact, if you look at the comments to the 1959 law on property acquisition, it is nowhere to be seen that there must be exemption criteria such as holiday trips, linguistic or cultural interest in Denmark or anything else. What the 1959 Act deals with is only the matter of residence and the length of one's residence in Denmark. That is why the 1998 decision of the Supreme Court also shows that emphasis is placed on the obligation of residence and only the obligation of residence in the decision in the particular case. How, then, are the exemption criteria of the Ministry of Justice in line with the 1959 law, which is the reason why we were given the summer house protocol at all? If you look around Europe, you can note that 6.5 per cent. of the leisure houses in Sweden are owned by foreigners, while in Denmark you do not know how many leisure homes are owned by foreigners. It is quite strange in itself that no such statistics are kept when we have a protocol on this in the European Union. However, in South and South Jutland, according to an article in the Jutland West Coast, there is a manual count of 6%, as far as I understand. In other words, it is only a little smaller than in Sweden, which does not have a summer cottage protocol. Over the period 2007-2017, 1,864 derogations were granted to foreigners to buy a holiday home in Denmark, and that is to say 4 per cent. of the turnover of summer houses was for foreigners. The difference between Sweden, which does not therefore have a summer house protocol, and Denmark, where we have one, is therefore not very great, and it is also in favour of a lax derogation practice. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that it is contrary to national and cultural historical interests and that it is inappropriate, potentially costly and devastating for the social environment in summer cottage areas that many summer houses come into foreign hands. The most effective way to reduce the number of holiday homes coming into foreign hands will be through a quota system such as the one proposed. However, the development of more and more applications and more permits must, above all, be stopped. Otherwise, we run the risk of the whole summer house rule being ignored by the European Court of Justice and this will be a huge problem for our country. Once again, however, I should like to thank you for the positive reception given to this proposal by a wide range of parties in the Folketing. We look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113210520	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. There are no brief comments. Then I will see if there are any more people who would like to speak in this debate. There isn't, and it's finished. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the European Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181113210541	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 14 November 2018, at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
