ParlaMint-DK_20181213100030	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 126 (Proposal for a law amending the law on primary schools, the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc., the law on post-schools and free vocational schools and the law on youth schools. Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 127 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Health, etc.) Bill No. L 128 (Proposal for a law on the removal of laser tattoo). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B 69 SamuelsenProposal for a Parliament resolution on the conclusion by Denmark of the Agreement of 19 November 2018 between the Kingdom of Denmark, of the one part, and the Republic of Poland, of the other part, on the demarcation of sea areas in the Baltic Sea). Eva Flyvholm (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 70 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ban on the export and sale of arms, parts of arms and war materials to countries which seriously violate human rights). Claus Kvist Hansen (DF) and Martin Henriksen (DF): Request no. F 27 (Will the government explain whether and, if so, how the government will ensure that the public protects Danish food culture and therefore must always offer meals with non-ritually slaughtered meat as an alternative to meals with ritually slaughtered meat, e.g. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). political, religious or ethical reasons do not want to eat meat that is ritually slaughtered?). Liselot Blixt (DF) and others: Question No. F 28 (What initiatives does the Government intend to take for the approx. 14,000 patients suffering from ME Fatigue Syndrome?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100200	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100222	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 40 by Martin Henriksen (DF), Mads Fuglede (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Nase Khader (KF). The vote is over. In favour of 51 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 29 (S). Proposal for adoption No V 40 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 38 by Søren Søndergaard (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Andreas Steenberg (RV) and proposals for adoption no. V 39 of Mattia Tesfaye (S) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100351	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 43 by Kim Christiansen (DF), Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Villum Christensen (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF). The vote is over. In favour of 58 votes (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 18 abstentions (EL, ALT and SF), 29 abstentions (S). Proposal for adoption No V 43 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 41 by Henning Hyllested (EL), Roger Courage Matthisen (ALT) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 42 of Rasmus Prehn (S) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100512	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100538	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100604	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100625	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 1 (V (by mistake)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100716	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100728	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The proposal has been adopted unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100758	The debate is open. No amendments have been tabled. Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100816	It matters that kids play with each other crosswise. It means something to their parents and to us as countries that we get to know each other and thus gain trust in each other. It is therefore very good that the government is putting forward this bill to ensure that we get a good distribution between our day institutions. In the Radical Left we have two things that we would like to place particular emphasis on now that the law is to become a reality. One is the children's perspective. I think it is important to look at the exemptions not only at where there are buildings, but also at what is best for the individual child, so that we do not see any situations where, for example, we find ourselves. Begins to bust 1-year-old kids around at 8:00 a.m. 7:00 in the morning. And it is also in relation to the measures that will be taken in the day institutions during the derogation period, so it will be based on the best interests of the children with the common educational basis that we have adopted in this Parliament, and not know that children are being pulled out of the community. The second is that we are following the plans that are being made in the municipalities and in the developments that are going to take place over the next few years, so that we make sure that we actually think this through and not just continue with the things that we could now come up with in the first start with derogations. So in those words, in the Radical Left, we would like to vote in favour of this bill. And then I think that if the government can now figure out how to take responsibility in the day-to-day business, it would be a good thing if the government also got on the field of high school and ensured a proper distribution there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213100957	Thank you. There are no comments. Is there anyone else who would like to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101007	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 68 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 35 (DF, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101047	Is there anyone who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101114	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101148	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101206	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101237	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101255	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101325	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101346	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101410	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101427	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101503	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101514	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101547	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101601	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101630	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101649	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101714	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101729	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101756	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101813	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The bill was adopted unanimously by 104 votes. The bill will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101836	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101852	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101919	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213101936	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102002	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102017	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102043	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102110	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour of 57 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 46 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102137	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone want to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102158	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102227	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone want to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102242	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102307	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102329	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102359	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102417	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. in favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102444	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone want to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102500	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102531	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102548	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into three legislative proposals? Sharing the bill in three legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A will then be put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on planning and the law on maritime spatial planning]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on planning]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, joined by the Committee? It's agreed. Final vote on the draft law referred to in C [Proposal for a law amending the law on planning. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5-10, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft legislation referred to under A and B should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the draft law referred to in C be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102658	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102713	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-41, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and ALT)? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee, and if no one objects, it will consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102736	Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102753	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 2 and 3 adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten) on Amendment No 2. 4-6, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 8 and 9, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102831	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102905	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102934	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213102949	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 outside the report by Jesper Petersen, the Social Democratic Party, and the vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour 41 (S, EL and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 5 (ALT). The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 2, also tabled by Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrat, who rejected. It has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We're gonna take a break, and you're gonna go out in good order, and then we're gonna start with a query debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213103650	Then we are ready to start the question debate. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 18 December 2018. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen, Dansk Folkeparti, for explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213103721	Thank you. The reason why we have called for the question debate by the Danish People's Party is that we would like the Minister to have a status on all the things that have been carried out since the 2015 parliamentary elections and, of course, we would also like to have the government's bid on what it is that the government believes should be done forward in the area of asylum and in the area of foreigners, and we would also like to hear what other parties have of ideas on how to tighten up on asylum and the area of foreigners. So if you have ideas about how to relax, you don't necessarily have to bring them here today, but you can. Then, of course, we would also like to come up with our ideas on how we can move forward. After all, we think we have a good financial law agreement that contains some good initiatives, and we would like to see them implemented as soon as possible, but when it is in place we must of course also look at what we can do in the future to take even better care of Denmark. That is the reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213103812	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213103822	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the question and thus also the opportunity it offers to have a slightly more general discussion on this very, very important issue. First of all, I will try to take stock of how far we have actually come since the 2015 elections and then I will give some reflections on how we in the government view the future work on the area of foreigners, including, of course, in the light of the financial agreement we have just concluded with the Danish People's Party. The bourgeois parties are the guarantor of strict foreign policy in Denmark, and there is nothing new about that. We took the lead in the '00s with significant changes in Danish immigration policy, and that is what we have since called the change of system in 2001. However, from 2011 to 2015, the Social Democratic Government led a wide range of relaxations in foreign policy, which has also left its clear mark on the influx to Denmark. When we again took power in 2015, Denmark was in relation to our size among the asylum seekers' preferred destinations in the EU with a location no. 9 out of the 28 EU countries. And with an historically large influx into Europe, it put enormous pressure on our society. It was therefore also clear that there was a need to put an end to all the social democratic concessions that had been made when the government arrived in 2015. Therefore, swift and resolute action was also taken. Together with the Danish People's Party, we took responsibility for a wide range of restrictions in the field of foreigners. The government and the Danish People's Party have among other things: adopted the asylum package, introduced border controls, tightened the rules on when to obtain permanent residence, and concluded agreements on stricter rules for obtaining Danish citizenship. In addition, the government has postponed the right to family reunification for persons with temporary protection from 1 year to 3 years, and finally the government and Dansk Folkeparti put out quickly and effectively in the summer of 2015 with the introduction of the integration benefit, which we have subsequently adjusted further and supplemented with the introduction of an employment requirement. The integration service has helped send out a clear signal to potential asylum seekers that the level of service here in Denmark has now simply changed, and therefore it is also a pity when the Socialists question the benefit, and they do so by setting up a service commission to consider how new arrivals can receive more social benefits. Our many different actions have made it significantly less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark, and this can be seen as Denmark is now a much less attractive destination for asylum seekers also compared to our size. The Government's results can thus be clearly seen in the number of asylum seekers in Denmark. In 2017, the number of registered asylum seekers was as low as 3,500, and by comparison, in 2015 more than 21,000 asylum seekers were registered. But not only has the number of registered asylum seekers fallen. The government's policy on foreigners has also had a significant impact on other places, for example: The number of family reunifications for residents of refugees is more than halved between 2015 and 2017, and in 2017 there were approx. 700 temporary residence permits for refugees and families brought together for refugees who were withdrawn or refused to be extended by the National Immigration Agency at first instance. These are the results of which the government is proud, because it has helped to protect Denmark as the country we know, and fortunately there is also gradually a broad recognition of it around the country. So we have achieved a good deal, but that does not, of course, mean that we can afford to rest on the laurels, actually quite the opposite. We have not very long ago concluded a very, very important financial agreement with the Danish People's Party and it is fully in line with the government's forward-looking objectives. One of the most important elements of the finance agreement in the field of foreigners is that the clear starting point must be that refugees are given temporary protection in Denmark as long as this is needed. However, when there is no longer a need for protection, it goes without saying that, as a starting point, as refugees and family members of refugees, we must return to our country of origin and help with reconstruction. In order to support this approach, the government and the Danish People's Party agree that the rules for involvement should be tightened and therefore a new provision will be inserted into the Aliens' Act, so that the inclusion or refusal of the extension of a residence permit for refugees and family members to refugees alone should be omitted if this would be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. This means, for example, that: a foreigner's association with the labour market, participation in association and Danish knowledge will be given as little weight as possible when the authorities have to assess whether a residence permit should be withdrawn or refused an extension. However, it is clear that, in order for several cases to be assessed in relation to the involvement of a temporary residence permit, it is also necessary, of course, to strengthen efforts on control and processing resources, which is why the Finance Act 2017 and 2018 also provides additional funds to increase control in the area of foreigners. Additional resources will be allocated to review specific cases and funds to the immigration authorities so that they can carry out on an ongoing basis more targeted efforts and in-depth studies to identify areas where it is appropriate to consider involvement. When there is now increased focus on involvement, there will of course also be an increased need for focus on the fact that foreigners are actually leaving Denmark. Some of them want to travel voluntarily, which is why the government and the Danish People's Party have decided to strengthen the repatriation scheme further, and in the field of broadcasting, the government and the Danish People's Party have strengthened their efforts for several times, and we are very aware that there are other areas where we can tighten up even more and strengthen the deployment efforts further. This is among other things. also why we set up a third exit centre on Lindholm. Until it is time for refugees and their families to go home, we must make the best of the time here in Denmark, and we do this primarily by making demands and taking a more consistent line than has been done historically. When you are in Denmark, it is absolutely crucial that you work and support yourself. The integration service has not only helped reduce the influx to Denmark, but has also given newcomers a stronger incentive to get a job, and we are now strengthening that incentive in the Finance Act. And then the benefit also gets a new name, perhaps it could be the occasion for the biggest opposition party, the Social Democrats, to actually get an opinion on what they know. Until that happens, we have to assume that the red parties and their attitude to the benefit are simply going away and that the benefit is being increased. At least that's what we can read in the papers. But we're not gambling with the integration benefit. The incentive to get a job must be significant. In addition, it is crucial for the government that the foreigners who are staying in this country also take Denmark and the Danish values into account. Some people talk about the fact that in the meeting with other cultures here in Denmark we have to bend over each other a little, and then we meet somewhere in the middle. To that I have to say that, in my opinion, this is completely wrong. When you come to Denmark, you have to take Denmark with our value set, with our culture and our values. When you come here and enjoy our protection, it is only logical that you also respect and recognise Danish values, freedom of expression, gender equality, freedom of religion. It is not acceptable that there are areas in Denmark where parallel societies have emerged and where Danish values and norms are crowded out by strayed medieval outlooks. We must make demands, and we must stand firm to our own values, and then we must finally not gamble with the results that we have achieved together with the Danish People's Party since 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213104855	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213104900	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. For the Enhedslisten it is of course very important, in addition to ensuring the integration of the people who are to be here, that people are given the opportunity to return to their homeland. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the government has been in contact with the self-government authorities in Rojava, northern Syria, in order to accept their offer to repatriate refugees from Denmark, and if you do not have it, why is it that you have failed to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213104932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213104934	In other words, I can say that we are strengthening the possibility of repatriation now, and we are doing so for all refugee groups, among others. Syrians too. But it is also the case, of course, that I cannot stand and tell you what contacts there might be with other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213104955	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213104959	Thank you. And thank you for the examination of the things that have been adopted. And we hope from the Danish People's Party that there will be many good tightenings also forward-looking. So that was a good statement. I would like to ask two questions: first, how does the government view the introduction of an asylum ban in Denmark at some point? Does the government think that this is the kind of thing that will have to go on indefinitely with the figure that is now there? Will it be satisfactory for the government, or does the government have an ambition, that the number of people who come here seeking asylum and asylum will be even lower compared to what it is now? In this respect, I would like to comment on an asylum freeze. Then I have a question about the two UN declarations we also touched on last week about migration policy and refugee policy. Can the Minister guarantee that Denmark will not in any way surrender sovereignty in the whole area of foreigners because of these declarations?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105053	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105055	I'll take the last one first. Now we discussed quite thoroughly, you might say, the Global Compact for Migration here the other day and last week. In other words, what is absolutely clear is that it is not legally binding and that we are not going to give up the competence to conduct foreign policy as we wish in Denmark. And I think that is important to say. Around the asylum stop, I would say that we have introduced an emergency brake, and we have this together with the Danish People's Party, and that is in the event that things are running out of hand. And I think this is a very good assurance that we can control the flow, even in a situation where Europe is once again seriously beginning. However, the aim must be to slow down the flow to Europe. What I think has been the problem over the past many years is that, in reality, we have discussed most of all in which rooms of the house, if the house is Europe, that asylum seekers should stay, rather than get both front and back, we can say, to the house.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105215	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105218	Thank you. I would also like to make a few comments on the financial agreement that has been concluded. As far as I can read, we will have a new exit centre and some lower integration benefits. That is understandable; it is a concrete and firm policy. But I can't really grasp this whole paradigm shift. I mean, the rules for obtaining permanent residence permits are the same. Integration policy is the same. People are going to work and learn Danish and spread out in all Danish municipalities and become part of Danish society. Then I sit here and look at this with the inclusion of the residence permit, where the Minister says that the rules for involvement must be tightened up so as to give as little weight as possible to the fact that you have been in employment. Does this mean that until today people have been able to be sent home because there has been peace in their country of origin, but because of their association with the labour market or participation in leisure activities, the Minister has not included the residence permits?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105318	It's not just a question of what this government has done. The problem is that we have led an all too lax policy of inclusion in Denmark in general. When nine out of ten refugees who have come to Denmark have been allowed to stay here, something is wrong, and that is what we are now dealing with together with the Danish People's Party. It must be the case that we help people who are in need as long as they are in need, and when they no longer have a need for protection, they must of course go home and rebuild their country, just as all other peoples have done in the past. What lies in the new concept of temporary work is that work is something that we expect people to support themselves, but it is not something that in itself allows people to stay here, and I think that is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105414	There is only one comment to be made to the Minister in this round, and then it is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105420	The Prime Minister often says that things are going well in Denmark and that more people have come to work. That's right. In recent years, under the leadership of this government, 100,000 jobs have been created. Of the 100,000 is 40,000, i.e. 40%, non-western immigrants and their descendants. This means that a great deal of the growth we have in Denmark, which, for example, is used in the Finance Act to invest in hospitals, is due to the fact that non-western immigrants and descendants get into work and contribute. In this context, I find it strange that a financial agreement is being drawn up with the Danish People's Party, where people start talking about even refugees who have entered jobs, trying to get away. Because growth must suffer, and the fact that it is going well in Denmark, as the Prime Minister says. I would like the Minister to try to explain why even refugees who are in work and who contribute should also be prepared to be sent home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105533	We need to help people who are in need. We must help people who have a need for protection. But I also believe that Mr. Andreas Steenberg is aware that the most powerful group is here as refugees, whereas the weakest are in the country of origin. It can be said that the intergroup is in the large refugee camps. On the day of peace, who should be responsible and obliged to build the country? Yes, it must also be the strongest, and they are the ones who are here. That is why it is only natural to go home and rebuild your country. By the way, it is something that peoples have always done. But because there is so much inequality in the world, and because of the fact that awareness of that inequality is so great, there is probably not that much appetite to go home and build up your country, and I can really understand that. But I also have a duty to ensure that we help the people who are in need, and when they are no longer in need, they must of course go home. Where that obligation, inter alia: It is also my responsibility to ensure that Danes generally continue to want to help people who are in need. But it is clear that if you can see that they just stay here, then some people's confidence in the system and desire to help can be down.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105659	Thank you. Then there are no further comments and questions to the Minister at this stage. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213105715	Thank you for the floor. Sometimes we in the Danish People's Party are asked why we keep talking about foreign policy, and the answer is that we spend so much time on the subject because Western civilization is threatened and because Denmark is threatened both from the inside and from the outside. From within we are threatened by a naive approach to integration and a naive idea of the existence of so-called universal values, in which everyone can live in peaceful coexistence despite great differences and diversity. From the outside, pressure is being exerted by migrants who want to share in the prosperity that we have created for generations, and in this debate it is important to insist on the value of the national one. Every society is complex, it has a unique history, and over time it has shaped a common culture and some related common norms and moral concepts ^ in our case the Danish values. Without these common concepts, we are left without a common frame of reference to navigate, and we are therefore losing focus. Denmark is my country and ours. It says something about where we come from and what a concrete context we look at the world from. It is the community that is ours, namely the Danish one, and our prime task as elected representatives is to make political decisions that provide a basis for the next generation to grow up in a good and secure society. Although over the years the Danish People's Party has had a dampening effect on the overall influx, and although we have had border controls and have shown many criminal foreigners, immigration remains a disaster for our community. Here we can only mention parallel societies in which women are oppressed, where non-western immigrants are over-represented in various criminal statistics, and that the employment rate is alarmingly low for this group. In addition to the huge social and cultural consequences, non-western immigration leaves an annual bill of 36 billion. kr. Despite this, a majority outside the Danish People's Party has opposed many of our initiatives, although we have come through with a great deal. We are up against a naive and vain insistence on successful integration, and it is high time we stopped. In 2006, a total of 18.5% was achieved. of all children born of women who are immigrants and assembled one in five children, 21.6 per cent, were born of women who are either immigrants or descendants. Those are violent numbers. In addition, by 2060 there are expected to be up to 1 million immigrants and descendants in Denmark. And I dare not think about how wrong it would have been if the Danish People's Party were not here. If we do not do more, the Danish population will slowly, but surely, change its character, perhaps even be replaced. And the country called Denmark will no longer build on Danish values and culture. Therefore, the Danish People's Party has for a long time been pushing for a paradigm change, and the Finance Act finally succeeded in getting the government to set a new course for Danish immigration policy, a course that will help bring Denmark back on track. With the paradigm shift we are inside the machinery room of Denmark's foreign policy: Laws and purpose clauses must be rewritten, temporaryness must be temporary, foreigners with asylum status must not be integrated and be here permanently; they must be sent home, that will be the new starting point. We must have a fight with intolerance towards the national community, we must recognise that the Danish Christian cultural heritage takes precedence in Denmark, and for this we need a strict immigration policy, also in the future. Coherence is simply threatened at the moment of multiculturalism and the result will inevitably be more division, more frustration and an increasing level of conflict in society in general. We must therefore combat the increasing Islamisation of our country. It's our duty. Of course we have no illusions that the paradigm shift is the final tool. Of course, it must be monitored and adjusted on an ongoing basis, like all other policies, but if we commit each other on the course we have now set and at the same time focus on further reducing the number that comes here, then we in the Danish People's Party sincerely believe that it can succeed. And by success I mean that we protect it Denmark, we know it not because we claim that Denmark is just a better country, and that everything is just better in Denmark, but because we love and have a deep commitment to the kingdom, because we put our own fellow citizens before all the people of the world. That is what a tight and restrictive immigration policy is all about, which is why it is good that we have tightened up since 2015 and that is why we need to move on. We must implement the Financial Law Agreement and, when it is in place, we should work to put an end to asylum in Denmark and to work towards a general limitation of total immigration to this country, especially non-western immigration. It has to be the words. Then there are the following: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament notes that since 2015, the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has carried out a large number of tightenings in the area of foreigners, which have made it less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. Parliament notes that the number of registered asylum seekers is the lowest since 2008. The Danish Parliament notes that, following the financial agreement with the Danish People's Party for 2019, the government will work to ensure that more refugees who have come to Denmark return to their home country. The Danish Parliament notes that the government will continuously follow and adjust the policy on foreigners, so that it is clear how many people come to Denmark via asylum and family reunification. Parliament will limit non-western immigration and ensure better control of criminal foreigners, partly by sending out more, partly by setting up an exit centre on the island of Lindholm. The Folketing refuses to set up a benefit commission to provide foreigners with higher social benefits. • V 44 (reprinted) • V 44 (reprinted) • V 44 (reprinted) It has been tabled on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110305	Thank you for that and the proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110313	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. The Danish People's Party's rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party has pushed for a paradigm change and that the Finance Act has succeeded. Temporary nature must be temporary. People with asylum status must no longer be integrated. That is what the rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech. But is that true? So, are we telling the Danes the truth here? Isn't the truth that there hasn't been a decimal in the integration law? People still have to work, and they still have to have a general residence in all municipalities. They still have to take Danish lessons, the children still have to go to school. Is not the truth that a comma has not been changed in the rules for permanent residence? And as far as I understood the reply from the Minister, I cannot really hear what makes the difference in getting people involved and sent back in the future compared to today. Because we are already going to the edge of the conventions, so isn't this just hot air in ring binders? Isn't it just a huge flop that we haven't discovered because there's a big flash called Lindholm that makes us haven't discussed it? If you dig into what's actually agreed, it's close to nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110430	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110432	I would urge the Social Democratic Party to be constructive in bringing this about. For the Social Democrats themselves have also said that they want more people to return to their countries of origin, and then you have to be a co-player. It is true, of course, that no decimal point has been changed in the integration law, but that is because the financial agreement has not yet been implemented. But there will be a change in commas. And in substance, things will also be changed in the law of integration. Among other things: After all, you are abolishing the purpose of obtaining a temporary residence permit in order to be here permanently for the purpose of permanent residence. You change the benefits, you lower the benefits, it's concrete. You change the name of the benefits it is specific. You abolish the Declaration of Integrity for a return declaration it is concrete. You abolish the entire integration program, and instead you get a self-examination and return programme that's concrete. In assessing individual cases, in relation to what it takes for us to send people back, it would be much less important to add to the fact that, for example, we are not going to be able to do so. have been in employment, that one can be Danish, that one has been active in society, that one's children have gone to school, etc. These are some of the things that have prevented us from sending people out. So there are, I would say, a lot of concrete things in what lies in the Financial Act. In fact, I think it is very well worked out, and I know that there are many officials who have spent a very long time analysing how to ensure that we can send out even more than we do today. So if you say there is nothing concrete in the financial law agreement, it must be because you have not read it or because you want to manipulate it. However, I would like to call on the Social Democrats to get into work and be a positive player in terms of putting this into practice so that we can ensure that more people are actually being sent back to their home country. The more parties in the Folketing support that agenda, the better it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110617	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's question. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110622	We would very much like to be constructive and we would very much like to be involved. But it all starts with a little honesty. And here I would just like to appeal to us to go a little further into the substance of what has actually been agreed. The rapporteur says, for example, that when we grant residence permits today, what is stated in Paragraph 7 (7). 1.- and 7 paras. 2 residence permits, with the possibility of permanent residence, and when we grant section 7 paragraph 7. The three permits shall be issued for the purpose of temporary stay. We think that is sensible has been written into section 7, paragraph 7. 3. and it was adopted while Mette Frederiksen was Minister of Justice. Now you change it so that in section 7 paragraph 7 you change it to section 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7 paragraph 7. 2 and 7 paragraphs 1 residence permits also write for the purpose of temporary stay. Well, I have no problem with that, but we have just received an answer from the Minister saying that it is not really intended to mean anything at all. It's just words. So what's more than words?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110717	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110719	All specific policies start with words. Then there will be an agreement text, and then the text of the agreement will be put into effect. It is true that when you obtain a residence permit from the authorities, it will be stated in future that it is for temporary reasons and not for the purpose of permanent residence. It is just one thing; it is a minor element among the many elements. What I think is going to be the most important move, for example, is to move away from an integration programme to a return programme, and to change some of the other things that lie in services and declarations, etc. And so it is very much the case that when the authority goes in and evaluates individual cases, they must place less emphasis on whether or not they are important. are related to the labour market, Danish knowledge, etc. That is where you will really move something if you ask us in the Danish People's Party. That's where the big difference lies. And when you go in there and look at the fact that in the last year we have actually included around 1,000 residence permits in the first instance. has allocated more funds to it. So, on the basis of the existing rules, it has actually been possible to include many residence permits. Then the logic of everything else must be that if you then go in and make it even easier in the rules and drop off even more money, it will be even easier to include residence permits in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110827	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110830	Now neither the Minister could or could not explain the content of the Finance Act. Well, then I'd like to ask Mr. Martin Henriksen for one specific formulation. It says, "Temporary is temporary." Really? Is it true that in future refugees will have to be able to be in Denmark, from 20 years of age until 70 years of age, if the situation in the country of origin has not changed without the temporary nature being replaced by something else, for example? citizenship? Is there any limit to the temporary nature of Martin Henriksen's view? And then just because I became in doubt: Is not Jewish society part of Danish society? Isn't that part of Danish culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110913	Here you go, sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213110915	I have not said that Jewish society is not part of Danish society. However, if reference is made to the fact that I spoke in my rapporteur's speech about Christianity taking precedence in Denmark, then that is quite correct. We also have a constitution that says that very precisely, and I think we should stick to that. I'd say so. This is how it will be and it will also be with the new Finance Act that the longer you are in Denmark, the harder it will be to withdraw the residence permit. That's the way it's gonna be. And there will still be the possibility of applying, for example, for a permanent residence permit and citizenship, and then it will be up to a majority in the Folketing whether you want to grant citizenship. We have tightened the rules of permanent residence by two rounds. We can see that too, because we can actually see that fewer people are granted permanent residence permits. In 2015 it was about 5,000 who were granted a permanent residence permit, and it has fallen to just under 3,000, as far as I remember in the last few years. So it's fallen. There are fewer and fewer people who receive a permanent residence permit. Moreover, you can withdraw a residence permit even if it is permanent if it is considered that there is a possibility of returning to your home country. I think that is important too. But in addition to this, in general terms, I can now see that I have spent my time more easily including residence permits for refugees who are in Denmark, and that is what is left on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111027	Thank you. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111030	What we can see is that temporary nature is not temporary. There's some kind of limit. Then all we have to do is define that limit and explain exactly where it stands, because that is not clear from the financial law agreement. But the statement that temporaryness is temporary, which is being tried to sell this financial agreement, is not true. And so in relation to Jewish society: No, sir. Martin Henriksen talked about people who had come in with another culture? Sorry, it did members of the Jewish community in the late 1800s and early 1900s. They still have a very distinct culture that differs from traditional Danish culture, for example. in the synagogue, where men and women sit apart. I see them completely as part of Danish society, and I cannot understand at all that Mr. Martin Henriksen uses some wordings that can open up the possibility of questioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111121	If anyone doubts it, it's alone because of Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard and what he says as a representative of the Enhedslisten. So I would urge you to do so. Søren Søndergaard to stop saying. Because there's no reason why Mr. Søren Søndergaard raises doubts in the Danes' minds as to whether the Danish Jews are part of Denmark. So I think Enhedslisten shouldn't do that. I think it is quite clear from this financial law agreement, on the one hand, that it is quite well worked out and, on the other hand, that there will be considerably more refugees who will end up having their residence permit withdrawn instead of being in Denmark permanently. There are, of course, some parties that have an interest in opposing it, and that is fair enough. There may be different political approaches to this. But that's just what's left on the bottom line. In other words, when you look at the financial law agreement, you can see that the section is actually very extensive about how to include more residence permits and how to ensure that the clear starting point is that people are here on a temporary basis, instead of people being here on a permanent basis. Today is the clear starting point for people to be here permanently, and we will then change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111211	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111228	Social democracy is part of the broad majority of the Folketing, which is behind our current law on foreigners, the law on integration and the rules on the granting of citizenship. In the same way as in the field of defence policy and primary and lower secondary schools, we believe that broad and stable cooperation on foreign policy is important. As the number of asylum seekers grew quite explosive in 2015 and the police had to close the Danish motorways because refugees and migrants walked on them and crossed the border from Germany, many of us realized how fast refugee and migrant flows can arise. The consequences of uncontrollable influx became quite visible, both for us at Christiansborg, in the municipalities and among the many citizens who are lifting the integration task in everyday life. In order to get it under control, the Social Democratic Party has helped to implement a wide range of restrictions on foreign policy such as the postponement of the right to family reunification, temporary border controls and the tightening of the possibility of permanent residence. Our assessment is that it has helped to limit the flow, not only, but it has helped to do so. It has created a little more profits to welcome the many who have already arrived in the country. In the future, we see the need to focus more on ensuring better integration of the citizens who are here with non-Western origins. Recently, the Statistics Denmark published an annual report on the state of immigration at home. Again this year, it is the immigrants and their children who are calling for the greatest attention. In the wake of the report there was, as always, a discussion about the conditions under which we should live together. What can Danish society reasonably expect from new citizens? Here is our offer: First of all, we can expect people to support themselves as much as possible. Otherwise, the welfare state cannot be financially linked. Public support is the exception for sickness and unemployment. Work must be the main rule. But that is not actually the case today, especially among women with a non-Western background. These ambitions are now better reflected in the obligations and requirements for permanent residence, as well as the underlying philosophy behind basic integration training. We would like to go further by introducing a 37-hour integration programme, where you only get paid for the hours you come up with, instead of the current system, where you get the benefits of integration and may be sanctioned if you skip. We must reward people for doing the right thing instead of punishing people for doing the wrong thing. Secondly, people must learn our language, both because we expect new citizens to understand us, but equally because we want to be able to talk to our new neighbours. This is reflected among other things. in the new rules on spouse reunification, where language requirements have been tightened. This also applies to spouses in more prosperous families who cannot just point out that they speak good English, just as it is reflected in the demands that children from vulnerable residential areas should start in the crèche. We would like to go further, so that all children should start in the crèche if their parents don't speak good Danish, whether they live in a residential area on these lists or not. Thirdly, people should not just accept that the values of democracy are the basis of most people in this country. People also have to recognise that the values of democracy are the basis of their own lives if they want to live here. This is true, for example. equality. It is the case that we regulate public relations with secular legislation and not with religious rules, and it is the case that we choose our spouse ourselves. Liberal freedoms are not a luxurious superstructure of the welfare society to which they have migrated. Democracy is the very foundation and prerequisite of the welfare society. All of this is reflected, among other things. in the rules for acquiring citizenship, and this has been strengthened by the agreements we have made on the granting of citizenship. We would like to go further, for example. protect Danish free schools even better from anti-democratic influence from Saudi Arabia and elsewhere. And finally, fourthly, people have to live with the rest of us. They must become an active and independent part of our community. It is not enough to want to live in a welfare state. They must also want to live in the community that has created and is still creating this society. Immigrants should not clump together in the same residential areas, in the same schools and in the same leisure life. We want you who have come here, and we also expect you to want us when you have come here. This is the focal point of our agreements to combat parallel societies. We would like to go further, so that we would be better at, for example. to distribute pupils in high schools in a way in which we do not become as ethnically divided as is currently the case. I hope with this speech to have outlined how we look at the challenges ahead. We have reached a stage since the last parliamentary elections, but if we are going to go any further, we must either have a new government or we must have some new positions with the current government. I look forward to the debate. Then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Parliament notes with satisfaction that the number of asylum seekers has fallen in recent years. It improves opportunities to welcome those people who have already arrived in our country to seek protection from war and persecution. The Folketing wants to pursue a policy that guarantees refugees and family members a home, medical care, schooling and employment, so that they also contribute to society. This is not contrary to the fact that refugees with temporary residence return to their own country when there is no longer a need for protection. The Danish Parliament wants a stronger focus on repatriating rejected asylum seekers. It is untenable that a large number of people are staying in Denmark without legal basis. Parliament also wishes to continue its work against the social and ethnic division of society. We want a society with a strong cohesion. In this context, the Folketing welcomes the broad political agreements aimed at combating parallel societies. • V 45).
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111813	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also included in the further negotiations. Someone has comments. First, it's sir. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111820	Thank you, sir. Mattia Tesfaye for the speech. First of all, I have a rather simple question: does Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that the level of benefits in a country is related to how attractive it is to flee to that country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111839	Yeah. And I think that we got if not a proof, then something that looks like proof of that when we saw the stories of these laminated A4 sheets circulating in the refugee camps, which showed what the levels of benefits were in different countries. And I think we need to consider that the level of social benefits available in the country to which you can migrate is of course important to which country you choose. It does not affect whether people migrate from Syria and sit in a refugee camp in Turkey. However, when, after a few years, they break up from that refugee camp and are looking for Europe, I am quite sure that not only the general level of service provided by the welfare state but also the social benefits will affect which European country they choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111928	There is some unrest in the Chamber. I think we're just trying to figure out what this is, so we can stop it and we can hear what we're saying. Mattia Tesfaye It's a water damage they're repairing right up there). Yeah, they'll have to wait for that. Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213111941	Well, then I'm a little puzzled by the fact that sir... Mattias Tesfaye the second day in Borgen Late Night gave a guarantee that a social democratic government will set up benefits for foreigners in Denmark who are not on the labour market. Will this not lead to Denmark becoming a much more attractive target for people seeking asylum?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112006	We think that the integration benefit for families with children is too low. There are simply too many deprivations for those children. And now a financial agreement has been concluded, where you want to reduce it by DKK 2,000. per family. Then it is quite obvious that we think it is a step in the wrong direction. And the reduction of 2,000 kroner. We are not going to support it. If there is a government led by the Social Democratic Party, then our whole intention to set up the Services Commission will be to ensure that these children do not suffer the deprivation that they are suffering today and that they will suffer even more when the legislation agreed in this Finance Act is implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112050	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112052	Thank you. Now I have heard what Mrs Mette Frederiksen has said and also what Mr Mette Frederiksen has said. Mattias Tesfaye has said here today about the parts of the financial law that are about repatriation, that is to say, going from integration to repatriation. And then I just get a little unsure if that's the line of social democracy. I mean, do you back it up? You may have different views about it, but do you support it? Are you backing up the new self-reliance and return-travel program? Do you back it up? Is there a call to change the integration law so that it is emphasized in the integration law that these refugees should not be integrated and permanently here that this is not the purpose, but that the aim is for them to return to their home countries? Is this initiative being backed up? If you go in and change the individual articles of the Aliens Act, so that when the case workers sit on the Foreigners' Board and have to assess whether to include the residence permit in the specific cases, will everything else be easier for them to come to the conclusion that you should withdraw the residence permit instead of saying that they are being granted a new temporary residence permit? Do you back up the things that are in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112156	We certainly support the whole logic of the debate on foreigners over the past year, which has been called the paradigm shift, and which is that when there is no more need for protection, we should be better able to send people home. When my chairman, Mette Frederiksen, has called it a thin cup of tea, perhaps it is because we imagine a slightly stronger espresso. Because when I read down the agreement, I have to admit that I am amazed at how little political substance there is, even though it is a political agreement of 15 dense pages. I simply wonder whether this will mean that more people will return home at all. Today it is nine out of ten refugees who arrive here who are still away in Denmark, and I understand from the chairman of the Danish People's Party that one would like to see the ratio reversed. And I can also understand from the parties to the agreement behind the Finance Act that it is believed that this will mean a significant change in the number of inclusions of residence permits. I just have to say: I honestly doubt that you are right about that, I just don't think you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112301	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112302	What's going on here, sir? Mattia Tesfaye's side is good political strategy, so praise for it. But should I understand that when you cut to the bone in that way, the Social Democratic Party agrees with what is contained in the Finance Act and will help to implement it? Will the Social Democrats help to translate what is in the self-support and return programme, the concrete initiatives that are in it? Should I understand that social democracy will help to change the law on foreigners so that everything else will be easier for the case workers to include residence permits? Do I have to understand how it supports social democracy? Is that how it's supposed to be understood? And if the Social Democratic Party thinks that this is just as easy as nothing, and that you could have done that a long time ago, you back it all up, or you might do it? Why has the Social Democratic Party itself not been involved in something that they want to implement? So if we peel away all that strategy and so on...: Does the Social Democratic Party back up the things that lie in the financial agreement in this area, which everything else is actually quite extensive, if you are to be just a little neutral when you look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112405	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112407	We support all the parts that are not about putting down the integration benefit. We support that. We're just appealing to a little bit of honesty in these discussions. Now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that everything else equal will be easier to include the residence permit. This presupposes that under the current regime, where the Minister has repeatedly said in recent years that we are going to the edge of the conventions, we have not gone to the edge of the conventions. This presupposes that we have sat and looked at residence permits and said: Here is actually the opportunity to include it, for there is peace in the homeland, but you know what, buddy, you get to stay. Who believes that? Is not the truth here that it is not the Social Democracy that is strategic, but that the Danish People's Party, perhaps also because of a new standing party, has a need to make this look like it's a huge cause that it's a paradigm change? But the truth is that it's hot air in ring binders... most of the paradigm shift that has been agreed in this Finance Act... and that the government and the Danish People's Party have a common interest in making it look like anything other than what it really is... virtually nothing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112511	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112513	I simply disagree vertically with the claims that come from up there. Actually, I think it's a little daring too. Now the Social Democratic Party has made a shift in 2015 in foreign policy, where they have otherwise been in line with the Radical Left. The rapporteur himself has spoken out in favour of the fact that in reality the Social Democrats have always been warriors of value. Even Happy Anker Jørgensen was a value warrior, one must believe. So, stop fooling around, and stop pretending upstairs that it is the rapporteur's party's fault that we today have a value struggle and a value policy that has been tightened up as much as it is. It is only the Danish People's Party's profit. Then don't rewrite the story. Don't be so smart.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112608	I have not said that it was the Social Democrats' fault that we have a value struggle. I haven't. I'm just saying that when we read this financial agreement and watch it on television, that the parties to the agreement claim that there is going to be a significant change in the number of inclusions of residence permits, I do not think that this is a true picture. I would actually like to say that I hope that this is a true picture and we would like to play an active and constructive role in the further implementation of the agreements that have been concluded. I just don't think it's right to say to the Danes that there has now been a paradigm change. Integration continues as before. The possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits after 4 years and 8 years continues as before. The possibilities for assessing affiliation, as far as I can see, are not going to have any practical significance in the future, as far as I can see. That is why I am asking a little bit about what is really the importance of the Financial Act in addition to a new exit centre and some reduced integration benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112708	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112710	I can only note that the disaster policy pursued by the rapporteur's party between 2011 and 2015 has been completely forgotten. I just think you should earn your spores before you accuse others of being relaxed and anything else. The policy we are pursuing now and the policy we have reached an agreement on, with repatriations, is a new break in Danish politics, where instead of only discussing how we are going to close the border with the unbridled immigration that has been, we are actually starting to discuss how we are sending people home. And the rapporteur could be responsible and take part in that discussion instead of accusing us of all sorts of strange things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112803	I don't think I'm accusing anyone of all sorts of weird things. And I am not accusing anyone else of being lax, as the Danish People's Party Mr. Christian Langballe says. I'm not saying that. I didn't say that. We are very happy to participate constructively in implementing the agreements concluded under the Finance Act. I am just saying in all silence: I find it very difficult to see that this is going to mean that more residence permits are being withdrawn and that more repatriations are being made. And the paradigm shift referred to was actually introduced when the temporary residence permit was introduced under the former SR government. I fully acknowledge that the same logic has been worked on and that, among other things, this has been done. has involved the inclusion of up to 1,000 residence permits from mainly Somali refugees. They have then been through first instance. We still need to see what happens after the Refugee Board, and in particular we need to see whether it is possible to actually have people repatriated. Or do they just want to stay in Denmark? I am just saying that I think that what is actually the content of the financial law agreement may be oversold a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112913	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213112915	Thank you. After all, there is a great deal of work to be done to clean up the situation after the many years of failure in foreign policy, to which the Social Democrats have put their backs. This is both about the farther past, but also about the time between 2011 and 2015. So it is good to hear that the Social Democrats now want something more, and then they even call the Finance Act here a thin cup of tea. So the Social Democratic Party wants even more than the Danish People's Party and the government. That's nice to hear, of course. But you also want to change the return service. You want it up to a higher level if you get to power yourself. If you do, will Denmark not become more a magnet or become attractive to asylum-seekers? So, if that benefit is raised, will it not be necessary to work for an asylum freeze, to work for a reservation to the conventions and to work for permanent border controls? Are these not points which the Social Democratic Party will support?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113033	I would like to start by saying that I agree with Mrs Marie Krarup of the Danish People's Party that a clean-up work has been carried out after a few decades of failed immigration policy. I agree with that. I also believe that we are doing this clean-up work and have been doing so for some years now. On the next issue of services: our position is that we need to find a comprehensive regime for services. It is not just the cash benefits that you get, for example. the integration allowance; it is also free places in the day-care institutions; it is the children's check; it is the housing allowance. We need to find a regime that, overall, maintains an incentive to get to work, which, overall, should not make migrating to Denmark more attractive and which, overall, takes into account that the rent levels are different in the metropolitan area and, for example, in Denmark. on Lolland-Falster. We do not think that the current regime takes this into account. I also think it is important to say that, as I read the financial law agreement, when you come to Denmark as a refugee for the future, you do not get a lower level of integration benefit. This will only be done after a few years, when you have gradually received a higher child's check, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113147	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113150	However, the size of the benefits has an impact on whether it is attractive or not attractive to seek a future in Denmark. So no matter how you calculate it exactly and I don't want to go into that either, because I can't do that, it's clear that if they're bigger, it makes it more attractive and therefore more popular, if I may say so, to try to fight for a future in Denmark. That is why, if you want a strict immigration policy, and that is what I am questioning whether the Social Democratic Party really wants to do something elsewhere. And there are permanent border controls, asylum freezes and reservations about the conventions, after all, some very good things to do. That is why I ask: why does the Social Democratic Party not want to take up those places if, at the same time, it wants to make it more attractive to get here via the benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113253	Thank you for the question. I will try to answer it in concrete terms. On the first question, I would like to say that asylum is therefore understood to mean, for example, that asylum is suspended. We cannot apply for asylum at the Danish-German border until asylum procedures have been established outside the country's borders. We have proposed working to set up reception centres outside the borders of the European Union, and we naturally hope that this can be achieved, but there are two to tango. We must find another government that is also interested in concluding such an agreement. When that is possible, we will be able to stop processing asylum applications in Denmark. On the second question: No, we will not support reservations about the conventions. On the third question, with regard to permanent border controls: we are in favour of the Schengen acquis being amended in such a way that the nations themselves will have the opportunity to establish more border controls. Right now, it is a major system in which Denmark and four other EU countries, I believe, have continually extended our temporary border controls. We support temporary border controls and we want to see some changes to Schengen so that countries have greater self-determination over when they want to introduce border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113358	Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113401	Thank you. I am here with a poetry work that has reviewed all statistics on the integration of foreigners into Denmark. The work shows that non-western immigrants and descendants have the same employment as Danes if they have taken a Danish education. In this context, I would like to hear from the Social Democratic Party whether the Social Democratic Party is willing to change the rules that make a group of refugees unable to take an education on the same terms as other refugees. In practical terms, these are the points on which we are concerned. 3 of the Aliens Act on Residence. I think that might be interesting, since we know that this is the safe way to achieve the same employment as Danes • whether the Social Democratic Party will be willing to change the rules so that refugees can take an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113511	Thank you for the question. It is true that the refugees who are here on a temporary residence permit do not have the opportunity to go to higher education. It was a provision that was introduced while the Social Democrats and the Radicals sat together in government. Then I understand that the Radical Left no longer thinks so. I think it's just important to make two things clear. Point 1: There is plenty of opportunity for education, for example. Vocational training. And point 2: The logic of the temporary residence permit is that we take care of people temporarily. That is at least what has been my understanding so far was also the logic of the Radical Left. Here I think it is fair for Danish society to say to people: In the years you are here, we would like you to spit a little in the common box, that you contribute to society, and that you are not only at su and going to school all the time you are here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113547	Here you go, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113550	It is true that one was not aware of the importance of the law in relation to the regulation in the field of the Ministry of Education. This has become known later. But since we know that it is the way to achieve employment to take an education, I think it is strange that people are prevented from doing so, and thus people are also prevented from making a significant contribution to Danish society. So I would just like to call on the Social Democratic Party and ask again whether social democracy will not help to change the rules so that refugees can gain a link with the labour market and make a contribution to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113627	I do not really know whether it can be said, as the Radical Left says here, that the way to achieve employment is that refugees should go to higher education when they come to Denmark. By far, the vast majority of the refugees who come here are de facto part of the unskilled labour market, and here we believe that it is about getting their arms out of the body as soon as possible, coming out on the Danish labour market as soon as possible, learning something Danish with some colleagues, getting the contribution to the society to which you have arrived. And then I think it is quite natural that, after a few years, for example, we should try. to get an apprenticeship or take a 9th grade on vuc. And then I think it will take some time before we see them at the University of Copenhagen. Nor do I think that is the starting point for the whole idea of temporaryity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113711	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113711-2	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye has stood on the platform today and recognised that the level of benefits means something to how attractive a country is to get to. Is it not quite logical, then, that if the Social Democrats roll away the low benefits we have for refugees today, including the further tightenings that have been in this area, also finance laws, then Denmark will receive more refugees as well? I fully acknowledge that there are many things you can do in this area and where the effect is uncertain, I do. I do not agree that it is hot air in ring binders, as was said, but of course there is uncertainty about the effect. But the place where there is no uncertainty is actually at the level of performance. That is why I think it is very remarkable that the Social Democratic Party will actually roll back the austerity measures that have been introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113819	I would like to start by saying that it is not in the area of performance that we think it is hot air in ring binders. It is reasonably cash in the literal sense of the word. As I also answered Mr. Mads Birded, we acknowledge that the level of performance is of course important for the flow patterns. In fact, I am quite convinced that this is the case. But that is not the only consideration we have. We also have the second consideration, which is that children who grow up in Denmark also have to grow up under conditions that are reasonable. We think that the current level of integration benefit has just been scraped enough. It is clear that when a financial law is created that does not change it marginally, but rather significantly, it sets it down, it will not be something we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113906	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113908	I think that is a rather remarkable concession. It is quite legitimate that there are several different considerations. I think that many people have just got the impression that for social democracy a strict refugee policy is, in other words, that no more refugees are going to Denmark, an absolutely vital priority number one. But it is not. Because here there is one area where we know that it actually works, so everything else equal will lead to more people coming to Denmark. Mr. Mattias Tesfaye himself when Mr. Mattias Tesfaye says that the level of benefits matters and that you will roll back the tightenings.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213113959	Keeping the number of asylum seekers down is a high priority for the Social Democrats. It has a high priority, but it is not the only priority. One could also turn the question around and say that if it was the only priority, why not just make an integration benefit of a five per month or zero crowns. Then it would be even less attractive to look towards Denmark. But there is a reason why the current government, together with the Danish People's Party, does not even decide. It is because it must also be possible to live in Denmark. From there, the discussion is only about how to weigh the considerations fairly against each other. We do not think that the balance that has been struck with this financial law agreement is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114044	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114048	I'd like to learn more about the Service Commission. Who's gonna sit there? How binding are their results? What if they conclude that you have to go up to 100%? again in relation to the integration service? Will the Social Democrats listen to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114106-2	I can't tell you who to sit there, but I can tell you what the sketch is for a mandate for such a commission. It will be that it must continue to be attractive to move from benefit to work, even more attractive than cash benefits. Then there has to be a difference in the overall benefit regime, depending on how much rent is, so we avoid what we have seen in recent years, when people, because of the ceiling on cash benefits, leave the big cities and travel out into the province. Then it must be something that does not make it significantly more attractive to seek towards Denmark. And then it has to be something that takes into account the fact that there is a difference between living in a family with children or without children. It is like the framework of the Service Commission, and this is also evident from our foreign initiative. We have then said that after 12 months we will ask for such a commission to make a bid. That would then be something on which a social-democratic government could be based. It will not bind a social democratic government, but it is clear that it will be something that we will be able to start from and then call for negotiations on. We hope that a broad political majority can be achieved behind a comprehensive benefit regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114219	Thank you, and then please try not to use direct indictments to Members, as the Rules also state. Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114225	Thank you. But again, what if the Commission concludes that you have to pay the full amount of money • will the Social Democratic Party listen to them? That is one question. The second question is: while we are waiting for the Commission, what does the rapporteur think it would be reasonable to increase the benefits of integration by now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114245-2	We do not have to go up to the full amount if the full amount means the cash aid, i.e. back to the rates that were before the 2015 elections. We should not do so for two main reasons. This would greatly reduce the incentive to go to work for those who have come here, and it would strongly encourage people to move towards Denmark when they have to find a country to seek asylum in. It will not be good, so the Social Democrats will not be able to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114314	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114317	Thank you. Now I don't think that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye can intimidate the Liberal Alliance or Mr. Joachim B. Olsen with zero benefits, because I think the Liberal Alliance is in favour of that. At least they have done so in the past. There's a reason for that. I'm surprised that sir... Mattias Tesfaye does not comment on the reason, namely what is called pay printing. In other words, if you have contact with the trade union movement, you know the conditions in the labour market, then you know something about wage printing. It is well known that cynical employers import foreign labour for the purpose of pressing wages, and one knows, of course, that if we get a large group of people in Denmark who are workable, who can go out and take unskilled work, semi-skilled work, perhaps even skilled work, and who have nothing in service or very little, then there will be pressure on wages in the labour market. And I guess that's why some people are so fond of that development. Why is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye didn't make that argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114418	I think it's important to separate some groups here. There are no employers importing asylum seekers in order to push wages. We have some discussions about Eastern workers. We have also had some discussions about the business arrangements, i.e. foreign labour outside the European Union. However, I do not really believe that this is so related to these asylum seekers. What I have to understand in the Enhedslisten is that we want to abolish the integration benefit altogether and thus provide cash aid to the refugees who come here. This would mean that there would be a very small gain by moving from cash benefits to a collective wage of, for example, industrial agreement, minimum wage. It would also be too small a jump, we think, and that is why we think it is quite reasonable that people who have come here and have not stayed in Denmark for a while and have not either been born here or have been paying taxes and have lived here for some years start on a lower performance than others, and that a strong incentive is created to enter the labour market quite quickly. This seems to us to be the right idea, which is why we do not want to go back to the services that were before the 2015 elections. It will be quite crucial for us that we do not end up with those benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114524	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114526	Now I really thought it was an oversight, but then I understand it's not. Of course, it is true that it is not employers who import refugees. They import Eastern workers or people from other countries so they can push their wages. It is clear that if they can get that labour at home and press the salary, they will of course do so. Or, sir. Mattias Tesfaye may think that it is due to a special preference that the employer uses Eastern workers instead of using people at home? After all, there is only one purpose: to push the salary. And if there is a large group with a very low income, they will be used to push the salary. I mean, I thought that was elementary union teaching, but I understand that this is not something that the Social Democrats subscribe to anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114606-2	It is elementary trade union learning that if people have nothing to live on or have very little to live on, they sell themselves for anything. Of course. I also think that we should try to be honest with each other in those discussions. The reason why many asylum seekers find it difficult to get a foothold on the labour market, especially among women, is not that or let me turn it on my head and say that it is not the case that employers just open the door and wait for asylum seekers to come in looking forward to offering themselves a salary under the agreement. One third of the private labour market is not covered by private agreements at all. There they could be hired for a 20 tomorrow, but they won't be. There's a reason for that. I believe that one of the reasons for this is that qualifications do not meet the expectations of the labour market, but it would be an additional reason if we raised benefits to the old cash benefits rates. Then I think it would be even harder for us to have people put into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114704	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114707	Thank you. The rapporteur has just stood and confirmed from the platform that the Social Democratic Party cannot support it about the benefits of the Financial Law Agreement. The Socialist rapporteur has also confirmed that we want the benefits to be increased, in particular the benefits of integration. Now it may be given a different name. However, it is quite clear that the benefit must be increased. All we have to say is that the mask fell. It is not long ago that the Socialist rapporteur should not go back any further than in the spring, that is to say just a few months ago said the opposite. After all, the rapporteur confirmed that precisely the benefits of integration and the level had an impact on the influx. It has to be said that the socialist policy of foreigners is completely insane. Because you cannot say on the one hand that you support all those things that you are trying to signal now around tightenings etc., and then on the other hand say no, and that it is also okay that we have increased the influx to Denmark. It simply does not add up at all. Then I can better understand that the Social Democratic Party was not in a position to table a financial bill at all. Because it will cost more money, and there is already a lack of money for many of the other things that we would like to give priority to the Danes: highways and elderly care and a lot of other things. Then I can better understand that the Social Democrats cannot make their policies coherent.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114834	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114835	I hear the election campaign is starting so little. It cannot be new to people who follow Danish politics that social democracy has not supported the benefits of integration. We haven't done that at any time since the parliamentary elections. There's a reason for that. This is because for those families it means. where children also live in the household is too scraped. Actually, we think so. That is why we have said that those families must be compensated. We have said this ever since that agreement was reached on the new low-cost services. We keep saying that, and we only keep saying it louder now that the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed to reduce the benefits further. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114916	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213114916-2	That was the fastest backswimming I've seen in this parliamentary term. One can go back just a few months, when the rapporteur himself said exactly the opposite in relation to the benefits, in other words, where one could well see that the line which the Danish Government, supported by the Danish People's Party, had in relation to the level of benefits in the field of integration had an impact on the influx, including that it has been a strong factor in our having the influx to Denmark reduced. It is, after all, that the image which the Social Democrats have tried to draw, that one wants to have a strict immigration policy, is simply not connected at all anymore, that is to say when one says that one wants to go out and raise the benefit again and cannot support that part of the agreement in the Finance Act, which, in my view, is actually a significant crux of the matter. So how will the Social Democratic Party even explain it? That can't be explained. Why do you turn around?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213115015	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213115017	Well, we're not turning around. Sir. Erling Bonnesen does not have to go back several months to hear a quote from me saying that the level of benefits is important for the influx. Sir. Erling Bonnesen can just walk back a few minutes, and then I've said this from Parliament's platform. But I have in my answer to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen said there are other considerations too. Well, that's why we're not just going to put the pay down to zero kroner. That is because there are other considerations to take into account. One of them is that children living in Denmark must grow up under reasonable conditions. And what the government and the Danish People's Party have now agreed is that a single mother with children should have 10,000 DKK. Before taxes. It's gonna be a lot scraped.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213115057	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then I shall postpone today's sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130015	The meeting has been resumed and we will continue with paragraph 33, which is a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration on the results in the field of aliens and new objectives. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Fuglede from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130036	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this request. It is no secret that we have had major challenges in the field of foreigners since we took power in 2015. We took over responsibility from a government that had carried out 45 relaxations in this area and, at the same time, we still faced challenges such as: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. This meant that we had a large number of foreigners here, whom we must honestly acknowledge that we find it difficult to integrate into Danish society. For a long time no demands were made on those who came here, and this has not been beneficial either for the influx or for integration. Needless to say, it has taken a lot of work to rectify this backlog. During our reign we have had a great deal of focus on slowing down the influx to Denmark and on getting the people who come to Denmark to support themselves. Our work works, even if the challenge is met. Last year we had the lowest number of asylum seekers in Denmark for 9 years, and this year it seems that the number is falling further. This is very much the result of our work. We have made it less attractive for asylum seekers to come to Denmark. We have, among other things. by tightening the rules on family reunification and by reducing a benefit for new entrants. In this way, we have ensured that fewer people come here and, at the same time, that it is far more attractive for newcomers to be in work and to support themselves. This has meant that many of the refugees and family members who are here now are working and supporting themselves. In fact, the proportion of refugees and family members to refugees who are in jobs after 3 years in Denmark has doubled since Left assumed government responsibility in 2015. It is a clear priority for the Left to continue working in the field of foreigners. This is also why we have entered into a new foreign agreement with the Danish People's Party. The agreement states that the temporary stay that we offer to refugees must, in fact, also be temporary. Therefore, more refugees must return to their homeland when it is safe again. This agreement will provide the framework for the immigration policy of the coming years. During the last 20 years, nine out of ten refugees or families brought together for refugees have remained in Denmark. That's not supposed to happen. In future, there must be a much greater focus on temporary nature when refugees apply for a residence permit in Denmark. The aim is for more refugees to return to their countries of origin when it is safe again. It's a long, cool move to get things right, but we've continued our work clothes on. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130328	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130332	Thank you. Just before the financial bill came, we had a question debate in this Chamber which was interesting because the Danish People's Party, I think it was, had an addition on with pencil, which said that temporaryness is temporary, and then we were interested in what temporaryness meant. How long is temporary? Is it false advertising, or is there a limit to temporaryity? And, of course, if the words that we discussed that day were not repeated in the Finance Act, that only makes the interest even greater. Temporaryness is temporary, or is there a limit to temporaryness?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130413	Temporary is temporary. I guess you can't change that. We had the same semantic debate last time. There is, of course, the problem of the fact that once you have come here because you have fled something, the temporary nature can only end the moment when the conditions from which you have fled change, so that the temporary nature is no longer temporary, but until then it is well temporary. It can also be stopped by the fact that the link is so great to Denmark and that one seeks to become a citizen of Denmark and meets the requirements and becomes a Danish citizen. Then, of course, the temporary nature can end in that way too. In principle, however, temporary nature is temporary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130454	So temporaryness is not temporary. There is a limit to the temporary nature which is set at the time when you can get under something else. Can the rapporteur of the Left not set a few dates? As far as I remember the rules today, it is after eight years that you can apply for permanent residence permits, and after ten years that you can apply for citizenship. It's taken straight out of memory, so it may be that it's a little wrong, but it's something like that. Is this still the case, or is there a change in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130527	I believe that in principle everything is temporary until at some point you seek a different status.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130537	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130540	Thank you. After all, this is also a little about what the various parties would like to see in the future in the field of foreigners. I would like to ask whether the Left has any thoughts on new proposals that can be implemented. Now, of course, we must first of all devote time to implementing the financial law agreement, but afterwards we must also get on with other things. For example, how does the Left feel about extending border controls? The Left is of the opinion that the current border controls are good, and we can see that it works, because there are a good number of foreigners who are being rejected, are being taken for human trafficking and all sorts of other things, and that is very good. So you can prove that border controls work. Is this, in the eyes of the Left, an argument for extending border controls, making it more extensive and perhaps also having border controls against Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130632	We support temporary border controls, and we will continue to do so as long as we have the challenges that we have and as long as the external border is not under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130644	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130645	Now I'd rather not be inspired by Mr. Søren Søndergaard and Enhedslisten, but as far as this is concerned with temporary nature, at some point it can go and become a little more permanent, and then it will be permanent. So since there are such good results with temporary border controls, would it not be an idea to say: okay, so do we make it permanent? And since there are such good results with temporary border controls, would it not be a good idea to say that if it works in relation to Germany, it must also work in relation to Sweden? Are these not good arguments for extending border controls and also for obtaining border controls at other border crossings?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130724	In any case, it can be said that as long as we have the challenge we have with the external border and as long as the challenges we face are as they are today, there is still a good argument that temporaryness is replaced by prolonged temporaryity in the area of border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130741	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130743	I have also asked for the floor because I would like to dig a little further into this concept of temporaryity. You write in the Finance Act that that part of the Integration Act, § 1 para. 4, which states that the Law is finally intended to ensure that newly arrived foreigners are aware of the fact that successful integration is a prerequisite for the granting of permanent residence permits, must be written out of the law, and the presentation of the Finance Act stated that it was now no longer part of the Integration Act that one should have knowledge of how to obtain permanent residence permits. It is true that this is not part of the legal objective, but would the rapporteur not agree with me that the requirements for refugees to be granted permanent residence permits remain the same? The only thing that changes here is that this law is not intended to ensure that they know what it takes. But I don't think they even know how to go to the government's own website and read in every language of the world what it takes to get a permanent residence permit. What I am fishing for is: does it matter at all that you write it out of the law, so that they cannot know about it? For what they need to know is nevertheless translated into all the languages of the world, and they will find out now. I wonder if most of them are interested in finding out what it takes to allow them to be here permanently.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130905	I therefore hope, in general terms, that you will understand what the legislation is like in this country when you apply for it, and that when you come to Denmark as a refugee and asylumant, it is expected that it will be a temporary stay and that the legislative package that is tied up in the Finance Act, which is, of course, much more than that, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye refers to here, aims to ensure that many more than one out of ten who now end up permanently in Denmark end up going home. I hope everyone will understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213130944	I understand that I only address a small part of the financial agreement. It is 15 closely-drawn pages of foreign policy, and I do not think there is time for me to read it all out, but I just addressed some of what the government itself in its presentation of the Finance Act has emphasised is important. I have just received an answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to Question 110, which is about what is actually the difference between those who are living today according to § 7 paragraph 7. 1 and 2 then where we have so far said that it is a possibility of permanent residence and then those who get a stay according to § 7 para. 3, where it says it is for temporary stay. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration concludes its reply with the following: • With the Financial Act 2019 it is planned that all residence permits under Section 7 of the Aliens Act will be granted. 1 and 2, and § 8 para. 1 and 2, in future it has also been communicated to the public. But then the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration continues: "There is no intention to change the derived rights of the various groups of refugees. So all refugee groups continue to have the same rules for obtaining permanent residence permits, the same rules for accessing the labour market, the same rules for accessing the education system, the same rules for residence. All the same rules continue to apply. They have exactly the same rights, and that is exactly what the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration writes. So what's the paradigm shift here anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131106	There is, of course, a paradigm shift in that one could previously be assured that when one came here, there was 90 per cent probability that coming here as one seeking asylum was the same as immigratering to Denmark, because in principle one stayed. That was the system. What is paradigm change is that we are all now making it clear that when you come here, you are here on a temporary basis, and that everything that is built up by affiliations or linguistic competences and other things along the way while you are here is not something that changes the fact that we perceive them as some who are here on a temporary basis. That is what the paradigm shift is, that is, the understanding of how you even think about your refugee policy, because what we had before was contrary to what the concept of refugee really covers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131155	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131156	Thank you. I just have a very clear question. After all, the Social Democrat rapporteur is puffing up to be the greatest value warrior the world has seen and saying that under the Socialist regime there will be a much tighter and stronger value policy. I would just like to confirm that it is right to note that, at the times of 2011-2015, when the Social Democratic Party has had the power and responsibility for foreign policy, there has been an incredibly lenient immigration policy and that under the present Prime Minister Poul Nyrup there was an equally lenient immigration policy, which was almost like the radical Left's immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131247	Now there's this comic book where the coyote hunts Wheelbones. It always ends at a time when the coyote hangs over the cliff and realizes that it shouldn't have jumped over the cliff because it will soon fall down. This is really how I see the policy that has been pursued from 2011 to 2015, so that we had relaxed so much that we ended up with the situation that led to the summer of 2015, where more than 21,000 people applied for asylum in Denmark, and now we are trying to get back on solid ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131323	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131324	Then there is another factual question: was it not the Social Democrat who had the border controls that we had before the elections made up to 2011 lifted? When that border control was to be implemented and implemented, was it not the Social Democratic Party that abolished border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131348	Now I hope it isn't because sir. Christian Langballe believes that I have become a social democrat, so that through an intermediary I get all these questions about social democracy. But I remember it in the same way as Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131402	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten • De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213131408	It is an amazing discussion; as if border controls have prevented a single refugee from coming to Denmark. I mean, how was that supposed to happen? That's bullshit. Anyone who comes to the border can seek asylum. Border control is just one more place to seek asylum. So that's bullshit, a stupid argument. But it is also a broad subject which is on today's agenda. It's all between heaven and earth, and I'd like to take advantage of that too. Because for Enhedslisten there are two key points when we talk about the area of foreigners. One is that the people who are here are integrated, having good integration for them and for society. The second thing is that no one is forced to be here, but that they will have the opportunity to stay in the country from which they originally come, and will have the opportunity, if they have been here for a while, to return to their country. We are very concerned that people are given the opportunity to do so. That is also why, when it comes to the last, that is to say the possibility of going back to your country, it is a question of what the government has done in recent years to ensure that people can get back to their country, that is, not to some camp in a neighbourhood or somewhere, but to come back to their country. What contribution has been made to the fact that conditions became good enough for people to come back or to support those places where this is actually possible? As an illustrative example, we can take Syria there. Syria is a lot of parts. There are parts to which we absolutely cannot recommend that people go back because there is war, Assad reigns, and there is oppression. But then there are also areas in Syria that have been liberated and where there is some form of democratic regime in which there is peace and where the Islamic State has been defeated. This is true, for example. in the Kurdish territories where young Kurds, men and women have lost tens of thousands of lives in the fight against the Islamic State. They've fought our fight, and they've freed Rojava. Now they have made a wider alliance, something called SDF, where there are Arab forces fighting Islamic State, and they have freed the whole of Northern Syria. We remember Kobane where you turned the power. This gave rise to the establishment of the whole of Rojava. We know that the battle for Raqqa, the main city of the Islamic State, has been won, the whole of Northern Syria is such an area. What assistance has the Danish Government given to this area? What help? How much? Nothing, absolutely nothing. When the Turkish Islamist regime chose to attack the part of Rojava called Afrin and triggered new flows of refugees in an area that housed a lot of refugees, what did the government do to protest against Erdogan's triggering new flows of refugees? Nothing, absolutely nothing, silence. It is of course interesting, in my view, that when it comes to defending multi-ethnic areas, where refugees have the opportunity to be and are not oppressed, and where the regime even asks for them to come back, you do not help them, but then you make big speeches in this Parliament. Especially in relation to the Danish People's Party, which clouds no opportunity to attack Muslims in Denmark, but when it comes to the fight against Islamist extremism in the world, one is completely silent. What's causing this? Is it because you really are not so much against Islamist extremism in the world? Or is it because you're afraid of the Islamist Erdogan? Are you so afraid of Erdogan that you dare not say anything for fear that he will get mad at you, and therefore you will not help the forces that fight Islamism? That's weird. That is why I also asked the Minister when we started this debate about what contact there has been between the Minister, the Government and the self-government authorities in Rojava with a view to getting their wish to get refugees back, and the Minister replied: we cannot negotiate from the Folketing. That is absolutely right. There hasn't been any contact at all. That's the truth. There hasn't been any contact at all. The Danish Government is so afraid of Islamist Erdogan that it will not negotiate with people who want to take their citizens back. That is the reality, and it is a disaster in relation to Danish foreign policy, where you pride yourself on sending people back to the neighbourhoods, and you do nothing when you have the opportunity. That is why I think we should stop this game and that, if we are serious about it, we should oblige the government to make contact with the government in Rojava with a view to helping them, as they have offered, to take refugees from their territory back to themselves. And that is why, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I put forward the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament regrets that the government has done nothing more to prevent the flow of refugees from Syria, among other things. by giving direct support to YPG/YPJ's fight against Islamic State and other extreme Islamist groupings. The Folketing instructs the Government to contact the autonomous authorities of Northern Syria in order to offer financial and material assistance for the repatriation of refugees from this area. V 46).
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132006	Thank you. This will be part of the further debate. Then there are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Mads Bird from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132016	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard for his honest speech. I would just like to ask how much Enhedslisten imagines that the benefits will be set up for people who are not in work and who are now on integration benefit, that is, what was previously the start-up benefit, the whole regime that has been changed. How much will it be set up if Mrs Pernille Skipper becomes Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132043	The answer to that question is that we reject the reduced benefit and that our demand for a future government is that it be set to the level it was. Then, indeed, we have some long-term requests for a level of cash assistance. That is not what is on today's agenda, but what is on the agenda is to come back to the benefit that was.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132104	I just need to make sure I get it right. Is it the performance at the start-up aid level, the performance back to the start-up aid level?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132119	Before the take-off aid level. And you can read this in our program. It is quite clear, there is no secret in that. But by the way, I would like to say that I am sorry that Mr. Mads Fuglede is not taking advantage of the opportunity to challenge me or anyone else on this problem, which is that the Danish government has been completely passive on the issue of support for the struggle by YPG and YPJ against Islamic extremism, and has been completely silent on Turkey's entry into Afrin, which has triggered new flows of refugees, and which at least for a period of time I do not know the figures for Denmark that the largest number of refugees who came to Norway was exactly from that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132206	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132207	Thank you for the floor. I do not have the big driving licence in foreign policy, so I shall try to avoid that discussion, but instead try to address some of what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says in his rapporteur's speech, namely that Enhedslisten is actually in favour of people returning home if they have either been refused asylum or if there has been peace in their country of origin. For a number of years now, we have had a discussion about what we are actually doing to get asylum seekers to go home. And I understand that Enhedslisten is against the exit centres established both in North Zealand and in Central Jutland and at Avnstrup and soon also down in Stege Bay. And it is so legitimate to be opposed to those exit centres, but I also understand that Enhedslisten is in favour of people being able to work and live outside the centres, even though they have actually been refused asylum. Can the rapporteur not make me a little more clever about how more people should go home, how people should be given the opportunity to work and live outside the centres, even if they have been refused asylum, and therefore they do not need protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132304	I mean, the big difference here between us and Mr. Simpson. Mattias Tesfaye is, firstly, the assessment of how quickly people can come back, and secondly, whether you are better able to make a decision to return if you are broken down than if you are not broken down. We are of the opinion that, unfortunately, there is a very long time to go. For the Hungarians of the last century, from 1956 until 1989, for the Chileans, from 1973 and at least 20-25 years ago, some of the Iranians who came in 1979 are still here and cannot return to the Islamic Iranian dictatorship. I think it's 40 years, as far as I can figure it out. Our view is that there must be a limit, and indeed it is shorter than the limit set by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Mattias Tesfaye is in favour. We think that the temporary nature should be quickly replaced by permanence when it is clear that we cannot come back. We do not think, for example, that this is the case. Children in Denmark must grow up in insecurity for years as to whether they belong here or not. In relation to the second question: we can send people out if anyone will accept them and we can make arrangements with people to accept them. There are sometimes some problems with having those agreements implemented, but we can make agreements with people to accept them. We do not believe that people are more prepared to go back if they have sat a year or two or three at a center such as this. Soulsmark, where they, what should we say, completely lose the ability to function socially. We don't think so. In fact, we believe that work, education is the best opportunity and the best starting point for people to return. And if we're going to look at the numbers, let's look at the chilenes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132453	I would remind the rapporteur that there is such a red screen in front of him. When it flashes red, it means time's up. Yeah, that's what I thought. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132503	After all, there is the crucial difference between the Hungarians and the Chileans and the Iranians that they were refugees. What I am talking about here is people who have been denied asylum and, following the 2007 parliamentary elections, it was decided that they might not be able to work outside the centres, but then they could live outside the centres. There is a specific family that regularly appears in the media, which was awarded a row house in Allerød, and the children could go to school. They have grown up in Denmark, they speak perfectly Danish, I think they are from Iraq and since 2007 and, in fact, until a few years ago they lived and lived a perfectly normal life in a townhouse in Allerød, but had no legal residence. The children would never be able to have a lawful stay, they would never be able to get an education, they would never be able to get a job. Isn't it smarter to tell them: Now the situation is that you live at an exit center, and there is no future in Denmark that you have been denied asylum. Instead of keeping the children for a period when they grow up for years without a future in the society you live in?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132559	Yeah, assuming it would help. But it doesn't help. People don't leave. I mean, there's some people on toiled stays that disappear. They then go to other places, probably to places where it is easier to live black than it is in Denmark, as long as we have an orderly labour market that is not undermined by all kinds of inferior services. So it hasn't helped. We've got people sitting in those centers. And therefore the question is, which model will we choose to choose, will we choose that people will have the opportunity to be part of society while we wait for them to be sent out, or do they have to sit at some centres? And that's the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132642	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132642-2	May I be free of the claim that we are afraid of Erdogan! At least I'm not afraid of Erdogan. He is a worse one. I would like to repeat that here and also a part of the brotherhood, and that is why I think we should take a lot of what he says with a spruce of salt in relation to the fight against Islamists. However, what I am going to do is what the rapporteur focused a great deal on in his speech, namely the fight against Islamists. It is not true that the government is not in the fight against Islamists. We participated from the outset in the fight against the Islamic State. Enhedslisten said no to be in that fight. We have Danish soldiers who we visited last year who do it excellent in Iraq and who train Iraqi security forces to fight Islamic State. So the claim that we are not doing anything to combat Islamists is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132744	I think we should discuss this; whether the Iraqis who are trained do not belong to Islamist groupings. But apart from all that, it does not change anything compared to what I said about Syria. So, Enhedslisten has made suggestions here in the Danish Parliament for helping YPG and YPJ in Syria at all levels, including arms aid. It has been voted down with a bang. Why do we not want to help the young men and women who are fighting the Islamic State? And what has the government said about Turkey's entry into Afrin? Sir. Naser Khader is also the foreign minister, as I remember, and can of course tell what the government's reaction was to Turkey entering Afrin. What is the government's reaction to Turkey's now threatening to enter other parts of Rojava? Silence. And that's exactly the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132840	Now it is a claim made by the rapporteur in relation to those we train in the security forces. We were down to talk to them and saw how they were trained. To claim that they belong to the Islamist groups is simply not correct. They'll be screened before they're trained. So that's a claim. With regard to Syria, I would say that Syria is therefore a larger area than just the territory of the Kurds. We are helping to combat the Islamic State also in Raqqa and Deir al-Zor and everywhere else in East Syria. So it's about a lot more than just the areas around Kurdistan. I am a big fan of the Kurds; they do it excellent. They are some of those who have taken the lead and fought the Islamic State. We've chosen to stay in the air. They've been our footmen on the ground, and it's been important. But when we talk about Syria, we need to bring the other areas in addition to the Kurdish territories.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213132944	Now it was quite conscious that I used the word Islamist groups and not the Islamic State. There are both Shias and Sunnis. And what I have said, of course, I stand by completely. But what is interesting about Syria is that there are many places where the fronts move. There are a lot of places that aren't safe. There are many places where Assad has control or where Islamist groups have control. The only area where there is something that can be said to be a peaceful area under fairly orderly conditions is the area of autonomy in Northern Syria, which is fortunately today driven by the Kurds. Their army is called SDF and also involves various Arab groups. These are the ones you should take to make an agreement with, that people sitting in Denmark could come home. You don't, and I think that's really too bad. And that is what the adoption text we have produced requires the government to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133034	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. That is why it is time to welcome Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133056	Thank you. The refugee situation in 2015 was out of control. We received record numbers of refugees, far more than we could handle. The blue parties have together made a large number of tightenings, and today we have the lowest number of asylum seekers for 10 years. We in LA are proud of that. We have not only succeeded in ensuring that there are far fewer refugees coming to Denmark. In fact, it is also better to integrate them. We see an increase in the employment rate for new arrivals, which is an important and positive result, but it must also be said that the improvements that have been made in relation to employment are based on a poor starting point. The employment rate of new entrants is still very low, especially if supported employment is taken out of the equation. And the integration task may seem insurmountable when we see that the third generation does not perform significantly better than the first generation for the primary school's final examination. When employment is so important, it is because we want citizens in Denmark as a starting point to support themselves. But it is also because we know that there is a very great deal of coincidence between those groups that are doing badly in the labour market in Denmark and those who are doing badly in all sorts of other areas. For us, it is therefore extremely important to ensure that immigrants and refugees enter employment as soon as possible. As far as I am concerned, the basis for the relative success we have had in the field of immigration and integration is that we have done something about the benefits, that as a foreigner we cannot receive a cash aid which is very high in an international comparison. The integration benefit has meant that Denmark is not among the most attractive benefit countries for refugees. This, of course, has an impact on the number of people who want to come to Denmark, and among those who come, it is very important for how many people get into employment. That is why I believe that the benefits of integration are of enormous importance and that one of the most damaging decisions taken in recent times was when the Red Government removed the start-up aid. It is therefore also very hollow when the Social Democratic Party in this parliamentary term has found out all the glories of tension, but when it comes to the foundation of the tight immigration policy, namely that Denmark should not be a country of benefits for all the foreigners in the world, then you talk with wool in your mouth. It is obviously such a complicated issue that it needs to be clarified in a Commission. If you do not have the courage to take a political position because it requires a fight with your own deeply misguided policy, a Commission is, of course, a convenient solution. But the spectacle that we are going to be watching over the tight immigration policy should be easy to see through. The Liberal Alliance does not want Denmark to be a dependent country. That is why we continue to believe that the focus should be on benefits, because that is undoubtedly crucial for the flow and for the level of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133427	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133428	Thank you. Nor does the social democracy think that Denmark should be a dependent country. The Social Democratic Party believes that as much as possible should be in unsupported employment as possible. We are in favour of this. And we also recognise that the level of benefits obviously affects the number of people who succeed in getting into employment. We are simply saying that there is also another consideration, a consideration of fairness, that is, how little money can be paid, especially for those families where there are also children who, after all, are not responsible for whether or not their parents are in employment. And here I am looking so little for where the Liberal Alliance actually finds the balance. When I was on the platform, I could understand that the Liberal Alliance might not have been so receptive to a zero-kroner integration benefit. Is it the policy of the Liberal Alliance that people who have just come here and have been granted a residence permit should have a grant of zero kroner?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133530	Well, we stay within the constitution and, as I understand the assessment right now, it will not be within the framework of the constitution or conventions to give people zero crowns. But we will go as far as we can. Because although we recognise that there are different considerations, we must also give priority and say that there are some considerations that are more important than others. And in view of the great influx we have had to Denmark over the past many decades and especially from 2011 until 2015, it is due to the fact that we have the highest priority that we have stopped the approach to Denmark and that we ensure that there are strong incentives for those who are here to see for themselves the idea of getting into employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133632	I also believe that there should be strong incentives. In fact, I think there is now. The reason I ask is, of course, because it is interesting to find out where the political parties actually stand. Now I'm not a professor of constitutional law, so I don't know the constitution, but if it was possible within the framework of the Constitution to further reduce the benefits of integration by DKK 2,000. for single parents, so we weren't on the 12,000 kroner. as now, or the 10,000 kr., as you have agreed in the Finance Act, but at 8,000 kr. So, before tax, if it were within the framework of the Constitution, would the Liberal Alliance support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133713	I believe that this is not something we have taken a position on, that we would be positive about. We are of the opinion that, when you come here, you have to support yourself, and you cannot have any right to live on public support and thus on other people's money. In view of the fact that non-Western immigration is already costing 36 billion. kr., almost equivalent to what the municipalities spend at the primary school, then we are willing to get the cost down all the places where it can be done at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133755	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133758	I'd like to ask you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen to confirm that the government's own ministries have come to the conclusion that the integration benefit has got 500 in jobs • 500. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the factual figure for the impact of that benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133819	I can confirm that an assessment was made, what should one say, stylistic assessment where one looks at elasticity and other things by lowering benefits, and it came to the conclusion that it should be true that it was 500. It was 700 on cash benefits. After all, the Ministry of Employment has later recognised that they had made some calculation errors, i.e. very fundamental calculation errors, among others. Some cash benefits were included before the introduction of the benefits and are therefore also being reviewed. I dare say that it will be found that the employment effect is much higher than the figure that Mr. Andreas Steenberg now mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213133915	I just think it is interesting that the whole first part of the rapporteur's speech is about how much effect that benefit has had, and so far at least the figure is 500. I have, of course, taken up the PhD thesis by Hans Lassen earlier in the debate, which examines all the statistics we have in the field of integration in recent decades, and the PhD thesis concludes that it is language skills and a Danish education that is crucial to whether you get into employment, and therefore nothing with benefits. So at all levels the tribute to the integration service is not at all documented, either in the government's own ministries or in the research. Will the rapporteur not say that there is no evidence of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134005	Yes, there is evidence that lower benefits affect employment. I also believe that there is evidence to say that the level of benefits has an impact on how attractive it is to get to Denmark and the lower benefits there are, the fewer will come to Denmark. So it's extremely important. So I must also repeat that if you reduce the benefits, you will also reduce the 36 billion. kr., which non-Western immigration costs. It is okay to refer to the analyses that have been made so far of what the employment effect is of lower benefits, but then I think it should also be mentioned in the same breath that the Ministry of Employment itself has recognised that errors have been made and miscalculated, and thus the figures are likely to be significantly higher. At least that is what we see in the real world, namely that there has been a great effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134058	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134106	It is of course interesting that the Danish People's Party has called for this debate on the objectives to be set for future immigration and integration policies. The whole debate has been very much about how to send even well-integrated refugees and new dancers home. We think this is a strange objective to set ourselves, especially when we see that a great deal of the growth we have is due in Denmark to the fact that non-western immigrants and their descendants are going to work, and that there are also a great many Western immigrants coming to Denmark and to work. The Prime Minister prides himself on the fact that 100,000 more people have been in employment since he took over power. 40,000 of them are not Western immigrants and descendants. That contribution is, of course, what makes it possible for the Finance Act for this year to give priority to more money for retirement pensions, to hospitals, to reduce the tax on beer and wine, and that is because more people are in employment and more people earn money for themselves and for the community. At the same time, the Finance Act makes this so-called paradigm shift, where you will also try to expel people who are in work. The Danish People's Party, which has called for the debate here, has then, together with the Social Democratic Party and others, made a majority bypassing the government, which has prevented the government from making it easier for companies to get foreigners to do so. This is a strange debate. That is why I would like to mention four things that we in the Radical Left would like to see tried to set out objectives. The first is to try to set goals for integration. There you could include whether people are taking an education and whether people are in employment. I would therefore like to commend the government for the fact that things are actually going quite well; more and more people are going into employment. To this point, with regard to how much non-western immigrants cost, I would say that there are a great many non-western immigrants who are children and young people. They are therefore currently a cost, but later they could make a very, very significant contribution to society if they get some sensible and good education and learn Danish. I have mentioned several times Hans Lassen's doctoral thesis, which clearly shows that for an immigrant who has learned Danish and received a Danish education, the employment rate is the same as it is for a Dane, and thus the contribution to Danish society is also the same. It could be that you should set a target for how to do it. In fact, things are going well and I would like to commend the government. But you could set yourself some new goals instead of talking about throwing out the people who are actually doing very well. In the same way, we could do something about education. Now that we can see in research that education is the essential parameter for whether you as a non-Western immigrant and a descendant get a job, let us do something about it so that the people who are here get a Danish education instead of putting up obstacles. We have also had several discussions over the last few weeks about whether Danish citizens can be allowed to have their families in this country, which for many is almost impossible, and we see one strange expulsion after another, where Danish citizens who have never done anything wrong or been at odds with the law cannot be allowed to have their spouse from Brazil, Thailand, or whatever it may be, in this country. I think it might also be interesting if we could set ourselves targets for this and work to ensure that it becomes more reasonable if someone has arrived, and I say this in quotation signs, to fall in love with someone outside the European Union. The last thing we in Radicals would like to have an objective for is to give companies that comply with the agreement better opportunities for apprentices to be able to recruit internationally. We would like to see a target set for what we call a bottleneck guarantee, i.e. that companies must comply with agreements, take apprentices, that is to say be part of the organized labour market, can be able to recruit internationally, of course, on the basis of the agreement in force in the given field. These were four objectives we would like to see set and which we believe could bring Denmark forward and also make it possible for the people from abroad who are in the country to make a positive contribution so that we can have more growth, more employment, more prosperity, and thus finance hospitals, care for the elderly and all the other challenges we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134558	Thank you. The first brief remark is from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134605	Thank you. On Monday I visited a larger hotel here in the metropolitan area, and I talked to the director and a representative of the staff, and they told me that when they are looking for housekeeping, that is, a maid, there are only applications from foreigners. No one is looking, and they also find it difficult to get applicants from the job centres in the local area. The director said that they had previously succeeded in having people employed on the greencard scheme which, I would say, was not intended for people who had to clean hotel rooms and now she would like to have the limit set so that more non-EU citizens could come in and take work at lower wages. I left the hotel with a slightly strange feeling. So, can it really be true that in a situation where we have so many unemployed people in Denmark and where we have such a large European labour market, it should be the immigration policy that ensures that we can get beds made at a larger Copenhagen hotel? What is the Radical Left's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134707	I think the hotel should be allowed to recruit someone from, for example. Ukraine, if you comply with the agreement. This is important to me, because I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Mattias Tesfaye, and I've seen some of Mr. Mattias Tesfaye's videos on Facebook, and I am not interested in people coming in and working for virtually no money, as we have seen in Padborg. It has to be on a deal. I also agree with this and there have been some sensible suggestions made by the Social Democratic Party that it might also be possible to recruit some in Greece, Spain or some other European countries. I believe that the Social Democratic Party has proposed to set up some job centres there, and that is what I think is reasonable, but in our view one does not exclude the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134758	I think this is interesting, because it is true, as the rapporteur says in his speech, that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party and the SF and the Enhedslisten have helped to create a majority which made it impossible for the government to reduce the limit from DKK 418 000. at $330,000, which was the government's proposal. That's about as much as going from 185 kroner. for 145 kroner. It will also be a discussion about what kind of jobs are to be filled with foreign labour in Denmark. We are of the opinion that the business arrangements are very good, that it is a strengthening of the Danish economy and that it is good for our society to the extent that it is high-paid jobs. They're not supposed to be making beds in hotels. This is what we believe to be job opportunities for some of the refugees who arrive here, many of whom may find it difficult to get an education and need a permanent, unskilled job. Would it not be better for us to focus on the people who are already in the country instead of opening the door to people outside Europe? And is it not, in fact, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the SF and the Enhedslisten that have reached the long end here, in contrast to the government that, together with the Alternative, Radical and Liberal Alliance, is trying to relax the Alien Law in an area where it would not be good?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134911	I can deny that last one. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Mattias Tesfaye mentions that refugees could also be taken to work, because I think that much of the debate today has been about how to get the refugees away, even if they are in work. But if it's on fixed terms, if it's on a collective basis, I think it's possible to recruit internationally. The reason for this is, unfortunately, that there are many Danes who do not want to take those jobs, and if someone from Ukraine wants to lift it, then I think it is better than the hotel not to have that job or the company not to be in Denmark. I think that is best for Denmark as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134952	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213134953	Thank you. Well, I'd like to congratulate you, sir. Andreas Steenberg to be a little more specific in relation to the initiatives that we would like to take in the field of foreigners. That is what this debate is all about. In relation to foreign labour, which was what the rapporteur talked about a great deal, I would like to know whether there is a limit to the Radical Left somewhere. There are a lot of people coming to Denmark to work, and if it were up to the Danish People's Party, we could thus reduce that number. The companies should be okay anyway; that is our view. But is there a limit? What if Danish Industry comes and says that Danish companies have enough orders to hire 50,000 or 100,000 foreigners, will it be okay with the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135042	That would be excellent, because then there are 100 000 people working and paying taxes in Denmark, but with the very essential reservation that the agreements must of course be respected. I'm not interested in it, and we're not interested in it coming 100,000 and working for 5 kroner. per hour or 15 kroner. an hour, or whatever the example was. But if there are foreigners who would like to contribute to Danish society by working here, then we think it would be good, because it will help to have money for example. to fulfil one of the Danish People's Party's main concerns about better care for the elderly and more money for the hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135118	So really it will be the case that if the Danish Industry comes up with some kind of figure, then there is no limit to it, I understand and say that they have x number of jobs to be filled by foreigners, and that it will be on the minimum wage in the collective agreements, then the Radical Left's attitude will be that then the Danish Industry can just point out, and then the Danish Parliament really has to open it up. It is, after all, a fairly far-reaching foreign policy to have. But I just need to understand that this is the way it is. So you really deposit the decision-making power with the Danish Industry and their member companies. They have sensible member companies, but that does not mean that they have to govern Denmark's foreign policy. But they must do so on the one condition that it is to the minimum wage in the collective agreements. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135211	No, of course it must be the Folketing that makes the laws, and not the Danish Industry. That goes without saying. But it is already the case today that 1 million immigrants and working in Denmark can actually arrive if they meet the minimum amount set by the Danish People's Party. We will then set the minimum amount a little lower. But that means that if there's going to be another Mr. Martin Henriksen a figure of 100,000 • 100,000, in addition to the assumption that it should be on an agreement, they must also have got a job. You can't just be allowed to emigrate and start searching. You have to get the job while you're in Ukraine or wherever it can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135247	Thank you to Andreas Steenberg. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Holger Kirkholm Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135302	I do not know whether I would like to thank you for this question. I think that we have had a rather wide-ranging debate, and the question itself is also, to put it mildly, somewhat wide-ranging. We've been around a lot of places. Sir. Søren Søndergaard's speech about Rojava was, in fact, one of the more relevant ones, I think, and I would also like to make a long speech about the Iraq War, which is a major reason why many refugees have come to Denmark, and where the Danish People's Party has a very great responsibility for the fact that the refugee situation has become quite much worse. But I understand that this is one of the debates that we will have a part of. After all, the Danish People's Party wanted them to make huge progress in the polls because of their so-called paradigm shift. That progress has not come, and I expect that the pressure from New Citizens, etc., will mean that we will now have a whole series of this kind of completely indifferent question debates that we have here today, which are intended solely for the Danish People's Party to stand and polish the fur and try to tell the electorate how strict a policy they will pursue in this area. But it doesn't help anything, and you can, like, ask yourself if life isn't too short for it. Actually, it is. Since we have to say something out of general interest and courtesy, I would like to mention that what might be our objective was to get away from that very ideological trench war we have in this country on these issues. In particular, the Danish People's Party has an ability to make anything related to foreigners a so-called value policy, to make it a question of Danish Christian values, Christianity in relation to Islam, and I do not know what, so the ideological trench war has changed into a general political discussion about solving specific problems. There are problems, and we fully agree with that. There are problems with integration which we need to deal with proactively, problems with ghettoisation, parallel societies, with the fact that the number of people of course means something in terms of being able to maintain a Danish welfare society, all the issues, also that the refugee problem matters to Denmark, and we need to do something about that. These are all things that cannot be discussed from a very general point of view of value policy, but where we need to take a concrete look at what we can do there, what we can do there. In other words, that foreign policy becomes normal politics like all sorts of other policy areas and that, if I may say so, there are no papal dogs in the discussion every time the subject comes up as there is a tendency in this Parliament and where there is an unbearable repetition of the arguments. That is also what we have heard today. The arguments and short remarks that have been made have therefore been heard a hundred times before, and I really think that the voters are a little tired of it. But as long as somebody thinks they can make a profit of it, it will probably continue. So these are my thoughts on this. I am able to vote in favour of the adoption made by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Søren Søndergaard said, because I am very much in favour of having better contact with Rojava, and I think it will help something too. We cannot vote in favour of the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135710	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135714	Thank you. Foreign policy must be politics, as in all other areas, says Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. I do not know if it is, but at least it is the case that in all other areas there is an open discussion about what things cost. If you have to take initiatives in the field of disability, you sit down and find out if you have money for yours and money for that. If there are areas where you think the costs are very, very large and you want to reduce them, then you try to do so. This is what we do in all other areas. So, in reality, this is a normalisation here, where for decades, too, in many of the years in which Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has been in Parliament not even wanted to measure what things cost. When it was proposed that we start measuring the cost of non-Western immigration, we were criticised for it. This is now being measured, and it is a normalisation, and if you then find that the cost of non-Western immigration is extremely high, then you say from the political point of view that we think it is too much money to spend, and that is why we want to reduce the cost so that we can spend the money on some other things. So I think the whole premise is wrong, that is, the premise that there should be no normalisation of immigration policy and the way we debate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135828	Well, normalization isn't the same as economics. I know it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen's approach to it. Well, if things can come into an economic calculation model, it's a normalisation, then it's normal politics. What I mean is that we can discuss it on the basis of some rationality. And it's not just the arithmetic models, it's other things too. So rational rather than discussing it on the basis of so-called values, as happens all the time. In other words, the fact that we have non-Western immigration costs money. Yes, but that is not what the Danish People's Party is concerned with. They're preoccupied with the fact that too many Muslims are coming to this country. They don't want the Muslims here in Denmark. That is what they think is the problem because Christianity is under threat. This is something quite different, and it is the debate that is going to take place, in other words. I am willing to discuss economics, of course we must do so. What categories to measure, then, can be discussed, and this has been done on a regular basis. We're gonna do that. But the other thing I think we should get away from.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213135938-2	Well, in all other areas there are spreadsheets whether you like it or not. There you sit down and look at what things cost, what are costs, what do we spend on yours and on that? It is, after all, a complete normalisation of the territory of foreigners that we also look at the cost of things. Then there is talk of values. In all other areas, the priorities are also about values, so there is nothing new about that either. What is this area where the way in which the various political parties deal with it is not about what the different political parties think are important values? I just have to say that I think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's tirade here completely falls apart when you go to it a little, so that there should be no normalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213140030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213140034	What I think is the problem is that you get that religious thing into it. That's what I'm saying. I'm willing to discuss spreadsheets, but life is also more than spreadsheets. Yeah, yeah, that's good, then we'll agree there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213140059	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213140111	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the question debate. I think it is important that we get the status of refugee and immigration policy from time to time. The focus is that there have been quite a few tightenings since 2015. We think that has been necessary. Tightening is not to bother anyone or the individual. It's to take care of this unique country, and tightening has been necessary and relevant because it has previously sailed. Both in relation to the number that has come, but also in relation to integration. So tights have been in place. A great deal came in the '80s and '90s and '00s. Not many demands were made, and that is one of them. Therefore, we are facing huge integration problems in certain residential areas. I think it is important to make demands, and it is also about treating people as equal citizens. It is not a requirement to wrap them in cotton wool. That is not, in my view, equal. Now, at least, the number of people who come is controlled, and that is crucial in terms of integration and housing, etc. And now demands are being made from day one, and we think that is really important. There has been a lot of talk about the integration service which we think is sensible, not only because it means that Denmark can seem less attractive in relation to choosing country when you emigrate, emigrate or flee, but also because it is not fair that from day to day you get the same benefits as others who have worked and paid taxes etc. Besides that, it should also seem like a carrot to move on. There must be incentives to move forward and not just stick to a passive transfer income. In relation to those who are tired of being in Denmark, it can be said that something has also been done about repatriation. We think that's fine, too. If you're tired of being here, you have the opportunity to get away with an amount. And then again it's important that I say that, almost every time I give a speech... to be accommodating to those who want Denmark and contribute to Denmark and who care about Denmark and are law-abiding. We must embrace them, and then we must be uncompromising with those who do not bother Denmark. So all in all, full support from the Conservatives for the tightenings that have been since 2015. Where I would like a little more is in relation to the need of our companies to get the manpower they need. We do not think that is being done enough. And where I would also like there to be a little more speed is compared to those who are on tolerated stays and do not have the right to be here. In other words, more agreements are made with their countries. I know that the government has hired some sending ambassadors who are a sending office, but I think it is important to maintain that they have to go back to where they are originally nationals. And it will also be important to everyone else who is law-abiding in this country. So, all in all, full support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213140459	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we have reached the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who is warmly welcome in the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213140508	Sir. Andreas Steenberg said that he thought it had been a strange debate. I have to say that I very much agree with this, most of all because it has been so marked by a total break-up of the red bloc in the area of foreigners. The Radical Left will leave everyone in Denmark, the Enhedslisten is most concerned with the tactical shifts in the war in Syria, while the Social Democracy today with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye at the head is trying to jump out like a huge value warrior, while you cannot say anything about what should happen to something as central as the integration benefit if you are given power, as you have observed. Actually, sir. Mattias Tesfaye says it's a terrible pity that refugees don't take jobs as maid in hotels, and there you could just ask yourself: if you raise the integration allowance, it will get more people to take a job as maid in a hotel. Mattias Tesfaye has been out to visit or less? I wonder if that is a little related to, for example. can pay off to work. That is one of the reasons why we have halved the benefits so that you do not get cash benefits when you get here. Fortunately, the debate has also been marked by the fact that if you get a civil government back, you know what it is you get, because then you get a firm policy that the bourgeois parties stand together. That is why I also think it is worth stating once again that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has been pursuing a responsible and effective foreign policy since the 2015 elections. It can be seen very clearly all around, for example. the number of asylum seekers. So it is simply not time to start shaking your hand, as you can feel, hear and see it coming over on the red wing. We must look forward, we must ensure that we safeguard the Denmark that we know today. I am absolutely sure that with the 2019 Finance Act, we will make good progress along this path. We must continue to pursue the policy that is necessary and the policy that works. We know it does. Among other things: In no way is it called into question that such a central tightening as the integration benefit should remain, that a lower benefit to new entrants is effective, and that a tight immigration policy and a good employment policy make more people get to work, that more will contribute, that more will take Denmark into account. We dare to make demands, and it is only right and proper that we make demands on the people who come here to participate in society as long as they are here. However, this also means that we are allocating more resources to a strengthened control effort, both in connection with extension cases and with cases of involvement. You only have to be in Denmark when you have a real need for protection, and we also strengthen that work with the 2019 Finance Act. It is the government's clear ambition that forward-looking distinctions should be made between those who are to stay in Denmark for a period of time until they can return to their country of origin and those who no longer have the right to stay in Denmark and therefore have to leave as soon as possible. If you no longer have the right to reside in Denmark, you must of course leave, and if you do not do so, it must have consequences. The government will therefore also maintain a strong focus on strengthening and improving voluntary departure and deployment efforts in general. So just to sum up briefly: the government and the Danish People's Party's politics have worked, and we should not lose the ball now. We must continue the strict and consistent immigration policy. We must ensure that, for a period of time, refugees who have a real need for protection have to stay here, but that they must then return home afterwards. But as long as you're here, you obviously have to contribute. You have to support yourself and yours. And those refugees who no longer have a protection law and who therefore no longer have the right to reside in Denmark must, of course, leave as soon as possible. I'll just have to say that's what you get. We stand by that, we are proud of it, and we stand together in this, whereas the trouble • let me call it that with a mild expression • that is in the red block, I cannot at all understand. Nor does it sound like you can do so by the way you have entered the debate today with completely different approaches to this. After all, it is commendable to have such a folk high school debate, perhaps even folk university-like debate, as has been the case today. It's always enjoyable, but you just have to say that it's not really moving anything. The only thing it moves is that you can at least see that there is no focus in the red block in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141105	Thank you for that to the Minister. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141112	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I have asked about this before in today's debate, and I would like to ask about it again. After all, we welcome border controls in the Danish People's Party, and the border controls against Germany have worked quite well. It could be more extensive and so on, but the border controls that are there have had an effect. I also know that the Minister for Integration agrees with that. If you can see that border controls have had an effect, why not extend it to the border with Sweden? What is the real argument against that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141146	It can be said that the argument against border controls to Sweden at this stage is that there is no basis for introducing border controls. But I can tell Mr. Simpson... Martin Henriksen, what I said earlier, for it should not be a secret that Mr. Martin Henriksen has both often asked about this and has also pressed for border controls to Sweden, and it is fair enough that we keep a close eye on the situation. And if border controls are needed for Sweden at some point, then you will see it, otherwise you will not see border controls coming to Sweden. And that doesn't stand right for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141223	But border controls against Sweden are, of course, necessary. SÄPO, the Swedish secret service, has been out to say that there are very many Islamists • I think it was several thousand Islamists • who are moving freely around Sweden. They have a lot of rejected asylum seekers. I also think it can be said that they have a great many illegal immigrants in Sweden. That could be our problem very quickly if it is not already our problem today. That is why there are serious arguments today for introducing controls on the border with Sweden. So can one think that the problem is not large enough, but does the Minister not recognise that there is a problem with the fact that it is so easy to move between Denmark and Sweden when, according to the Swedish authorities, we know that there are actually a number of people in Sweden who are, for example, Islamists and who, therefore, everything else will be able to move very easily into Denmark? Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141320	I recognise that part of having border controls is, of course, also to have a very good picture of who comes in and out of a country, but having said that, I simply do not believe that there is a basis for introducing border controls to Sweden now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141335	I think we'll have a few more brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141346	The last exchange of words here has to be said that it sails in a blue block. In other words, they completely disagree on a central issue such as border controls. Where isn't it gonna end? To the fact that we have talked about everything in the East and the West, I would say that I am just starting from what the government says is its main priority. So, the main priority of the government is that we should help in the neighbourhood and not in Denmark, and that those who have come here should be helped to get home. That's why there's got to be a return service. I take that as a starting point, that is to say, the main priority of the government. Then I asked the Minister what action has been taken to accept the offer made by North Syria's self-government that they would like to take people back. And the Minister can't answer. And the reason why the Minister cannot answer is that the Minister has not done a thing. Because the government hasn't done a damn thing. It sails in blue block. That's reality. However, the Minister has now had the opportunity to speak to his officials and has been told that it is, I believe, 20 000 refugees who have come from Syria for the last five years. Many of them are Kurds, and many of them have come from Rojava or at least Northern Syria. And that is why there is every possibility that the Minister can now say: yes, I think it is a good proposal from Enhedslisten, supported by the SF, that we should contact the self-government authorities in Northern Syria to find out how we can help them take citizens back to their country. The Minister can do that; then we have got something constructive out of it. But otherwise it will be the Minister's fault if nothing constructive comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141512	Oh, I think maybe that's just what you might call a journalistic tightening. There is no doubt that we have a much greater focus on repatriation than there has been in the past. But there is also simply a need to tighten up on this issue, because a great many people have come here because a very lenient immigration policy has been pursued for a period of time and because Europe has gone wrong. And a lot of these people have to go back home. That's one of them. That is why we are now giving the opportunity to get money back to Syria as well. As I know, we are actually the first country in the world to give it the opportunity so that all groups can get money home in this way to start a new life for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141603	Well, it's obvious to everyone here that the Minister paddles around, isn't it? Because it is not so often that the political leadership of an area in the world that has sacrificed thousands of young people in the fight against the Islamic State says: we want our fellow citizens back to our country; help us get home; help us with infrastructure and things and things so that they can have something to live in to replace everything that has been bombed in pieces by the Islamic State and by Turkish attacks. It's not like it happens every day. And then it's interesting when it happens why the government doesn't react. And I can find no other explanation than that it's because you're afraid of Islamist Erdogan. I can't find another explanation. And the Minister doesn't give me reason to believe in anything else. But all right, the minister will have to consider it, and then I hope we will have an answer at a later stage. Otherwise, I think that much of what the Minister says sounds hollow when you do not want to accept the offer that lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141659	Now I know this way. experience that one should always be a little against accepting offers from Enhedslisten. It's just advice like that. Somehow, Enhedslisten has always been kind of like a beacon to me. I know you have to keep your distance, or you can sail on land. However, as I have said, we are aware of the first country in the world to provide repatriation aid to all groups of refugees, and therefore also Syrian refugees, who have to return home. But it's nice to know that Enhedslisten supports it. I would not have thought so, but it is sometimes the case that such parliamentary debates can open up an unseen consensus. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141732	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141736	Allow me to ask the same question that I asked when the Minister was in the Chair for the first time, because I did not really get an answer. As I mentioned in my question, 40 000 non-western immigrants and descendants have actually entered employment under this government. It's fantastic, and it gives a lot of growth and some extra money that you can spend in the Finance Act on folk pensions and hospitals. And then I find it a little shameful that the country's Minister for Integration does not mention it, since we have such an open debate. So I would like to repeat my question: why does the government then make an agreement with the Danish People's Party to send home even people who are in work and who contribute? And it is in fact in a situation in which the government, at the same time in great disagreement with the Danish People's Party, is trying to ease the opportunities for companies to get foreigners to do so. Why not say that those who are here and who are in work can stay, since the government cannot get the Danish People's Party to relax the rules for recruiting foreign labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141843	As far as I remember, I actually replied to Mr. Andreas Steenberg quite clearly on that, but I just don't believe, sir. Andreas Steenberg agreed with the answer. That is fair enough, but perhaps that is what you have to say instead of saying that there was no answer to the question. But I would like to answer the question one more time. Sir. Andreas Steenberg says that he thinks it is wrong that I did not mention in my speech the 40 000 who had come to work that it was absolutely disgraceful. I think, sir. Søren Søndergaard finds it absolutely disgraceful that I did not mention the tactical shifts in the war in Syria, in that it is, Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard chose to focus on. And that's how things can be so different. But I have, in fact, focused on the fact that more people support themselves and that it is very good. But that's just not what makes it possible to stay in Denmark, because it has to be a prerequisite that as long as you are here, you also contribute. And that is what we have been completely wrong about for very, very many years, because we have not dared to make demands on people. We have said, "Welcome; don't do anything while you are here, but you must be allowed to stay here. It is simply pointless, I would say to Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, and that is why it is good that there has been a little hand in hand with things since the bourgeois government came into being.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213141948	I think it is a very good idea to demand that you support yourself. That was also the policy of the SR government. But I have to say that it does not make sense for the government to demonstrate with one hand, for example. a acids that are in work, and then with the other hand trying to get some rules made that then allows the company to bring back the acids. It doesn't make any sense. It's totally double. In other words, it is not related to the fact that you stand and say that you want to have labour for the country from abroad and then show the labour that is already here. And it is not just a disagreement; it also shows that the government disagrees with itself. I thought it was only us radicals who could thus have more opinions, but you disagree with yourselves. Doesn't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142034	No, I can't, I have to say. But yes, it is a well-known fact that the Radical Left has been able to mean many things over the ages and also at the same time. Having said that, I would like to say that there is nothing strange about it at all. Surely there is nothing strange about being an open country for those who come here and want to contribute and work. And there is nothing strange about saying that the strong refugees who are here must, of course, rebuild their countries again. If we are to ensure that there are also regimes that are based on strong foundations, in some of the countries which have previously been war-torn, then we have to rely on some of the strong refugees to return home and rebuild their countries, just as it has always been. So I simply do not understand that argument and I think it is completely wrong. By the way, I just can't see that there's anything wrong with saying that as long as you're here, you have to support yourself, but that's just not what allows you to stay here forever. You have to go home and use the powers of the country you came from and rebuild it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142141	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142145	I would also like to thank the Minister for her reply. Now the Minister says that I have jumped out as a value warrior, but I now consider myself more like a peaceful man a la Alfons Åberg, who is trying to avoid the worst value-policy fights. I would just like to question the real political content of the 15 pages of densely written text contained in the Finance Act. A very central place in the agreement states: "The authorities must therefore, unlike today, go to the limit of the contractual obligations when a decision is taken to withdraw or refuse the extension of a residence permit. It is then mentioned that labour relations and Danish knowledge should not in itself have an impact on the possibility of withdrawal or refusal of renewal of a residence permit. This is the crux of the matter, and here it is in black and white that today you do not go to the border. This means that today there are people who remain in Denmark who are granted an extension of their residence permit, despite the fact that there is peace and therefore the possibility of repatriation. Can the Minister confirm that this is really the case today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142301	One of the things that now needs to be given a different emphasis is when children's own association with Denmark begins to count. Well, that's a change, and I don't know about that. Mattias Tesfaye has completely overlooked that, but there are indications.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142319	I would like to try to repeat my question. It says: "The authorities must therefore, unlike today, go to the limit of the contractual obligations. "And then reference is made to labour relations and Danish knowledge. Does this mean that today, because one is linked to the labour market, or because one has gained Danish knowledge at a certain level, despite the fact that one is still on a temporary residence permit, one gets his residence permit extended even though there has been peace in one's home country? I just need to understand if that is the case today, because then what you have agreed makes sense, and then it has the warmest support of the Social Democrat Party. But if that's not the way it is today, it's, as I say, hot air in ring binders. I'm really interested in finding out if this is gonna have any meaning. So, is it the case today that labour relations and Danish knowledge prevent us from sending people home?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142414	After all, you can be completely surprised if somebody in the Chamber is actually asking questions about something that they actually want answers to. But I guess that's actually it, sir. Mattias Tesfaye says now. Yes, things have actually weighed differently in the weight bowl before. So, yeah, this is gonna have a meaning. Otherwise, we wouldn't have made a deal like this. I do not know what it was like under the former Red Government, but I can at least say that when we enter into financial agreements, it is not because we are doing it for fun or to make the time pass, but it is actually to move some things. And this is going to move something, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142448	Thank you very much to the Minister. Then we start on the second round, and the first to speak is Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142503	Thank you for that and also thank you for the debate, which is, of course, about the fact that we in the Danish People's Party were interested in what the various parties have to say about what we should be dealing with in the future in foreign policy. We in the Danish People's Party have tried to make our bid, and I understand that the Radicals want more foreign labour. You may agree or disagree with that, but that is a concrete offer after all. Conservatives also spoke about the need for more foreign labour, but want to ensure that more criminal foreigners are also sent out. After all, it's always something. As far as SF is concerned, I understood it more as if Mr. Holger K. Nielsen was actually a little annoyed that we were going to come here today and discuss foreign policy, but that is the way it is in a democratic society; you might be called to debates, especially when you sit in parliament. That's the way it is. The Danish People's Party will continue to call for debates on a subject which I think many Danes are interested in. What I actually got out of the Social Democratic speech was that the Social Democratic Party would like to raise some benefits and thus attract more asylum seekers to Denmark. It is not an ambition that we share from the Danish People's Party, but there was at least a suggestion for something new that the Social Democratic Party would like to offer. I might come back to that. I really think it has been a good debate where we have had some insight into what the other parties want in the field of foreigners. We have been told by the Minister that the migrant pact and the UN Refugee Pact will not change Denmark's asylum and immigration policy. It's always good to come from here. Unfortunately, however, it has to be understood that the government is not very much in favour of introducing an asylum ban or extending border controls in Denmark. On the other hand, the government would like to commit itself to restricting non-western immigration. We would like to sign for this in the Danish People's Party. Then I think we have seen something new and exciting today, namely social democratic care for foreign policy, but also an expression of the duality that has increasingly been expressed by the Social Democrats in recent days and weeks: first, the Social Democrats criticise the government's line in relation to the UN declaration on migration and then support the declaration. And today the Social Democratic Party then criticises the Financial Law Agreement for not being tight enough, while at the same time the Social Democrats say that action will be taken with higher social benefits for foreigners, which everything else will lead to more asylum seekers for Denmark. I believe that is something that most voters can see through. At any rate, we in the Danish People's Party intend in the near future to stress that we must implement the financial law agreement, but also that we must, of course, have better control of criminal foreigners, that we must ensure that we have an asylum stop, and so that what is also being implemented with the financial law agreement is that we can open up the possibility of preventing foreign money donations to mosque buildings in Denmark. This is also something that came into the Financial Law Agreement, and it is also something that the next debate is about. Then, of course, we must also have abolished the legal requirements of refugees for permanent housing as soon as possible. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party have been working on for a long time. Something else that has not been included in the financial law agreement, but which we hope we can also find a majority in favour of here in the Folketing, is that we also believe that at least in certain asylum centres a curfew should be applied, very much for minors asylum seekers. There the Minister said before the summer that the Minister would return to the Folketing with an assessment of whether this could be done. Our assessment in the Danish People's Party is that it can be done. We hope that there will soon be a government bid as to whether the government believes that this can be done, because if the government means it, then there is a majority in favour of it. Something which is also interesting to be able to continue working on in the near future is an exit centre which can be located in another country. The Minister has also mentioned this. Then I also think it might be interesting in the future to discuss stricter rules on permanent residence and citizenship. That's it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142910	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 18 December 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213142925	I think we should just have half a minute to roll around with some of the rapporteurs. Then I think we're ready to get started. I would like to point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 18 December 2018. For reasons of explanatory statement, it is the rapporteur of the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr von der Vring. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213143019	Thank you. As a reason for the question debate, I think it might be appropriate to mention that there have been a number of examples of various regimes and foreign organisations, Iran, Qatar, Turkey and Saudi Arabia having also been mentioned in different contexts, having contributed to the construction of mosque in Denmark, that is to say religious activities in Denmark, and that is certainly not reassuring. After all, these are fundamentalist and Islamist regimes and strong moneymen, who certainly in many cases have an agenda that we basically do not like here in Denmark, and there we have tried on several occasions by the Danish People's Party to get other parties involved in preventing these foreign donations from entering Denmark, and that is why we have asked for a question debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213143107	Thank you. Then it is for answering the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213143122	Thank you for that, and thank you for the question, which I can answer very precisely, because the answer is that the government has just concluded a financial agreement that includes the establishment of a system which, within the framework of the Constitution and Denmark's international commitments, specifically prevents donations that are specifically intended to undermine and counter democracy and fundamental freedoms. I look forward to discussing the possibilities and looking at the framework with the Danish People's Party, and at the same time I have to say that there is probably no easy solution to this issue and, as I have also said before, it is my clear opinion that foreign support for religious organisations is not in itself a problem. Many Christian religions are also supported, and we support, for example. also the Danish church abroad. However, foreign support for religious buildings and schools is so problematic if support goes beyond religious support and helps to counter and undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights, and that is why it was also included in the Finance Act. We can see in Denmark and many other countries that there is a risk that parallel societies will emerge without association with the surrounding society. We should not accept that some people are working against Danish democracy while at the same time enjoying their democratic rights. If you live in Denmark, you have to take the Danish values into account. We have already taken a number of initiatives, which is why we are not starting at all. In 2016, we have made it a criminal offence to receive support from terrorist organisations for the establishment or operation of an institution or the like. With the national sanction list, we have prevented foreign religious ministers with fanatical attitudes from entering Denmark at all, and it is also punishable by the criminal code to expressly approve terror, killing, rape, violence, incest, paedophilia, detention, coercion and polywry if it is part of religious training. In addition, we in the government have also taken a number of initiatives to increase transparency about foreign donations, and a broad majority in the Folketing voted in December for the new law on recognised religions outside the church. Among other things, the law requires recognised religions to now publish their annual accounts and, among other things, to publish their annual accounts. inform whether they have received one or more donations from the same donor who, for example, totals more than DKK 20,000. As you know, it is under the authority of the church minister, but for example. The Turkish religion, on which there has been a great deal of debate in the media, is, after all, a recognised religion which must comply with the rules which the Folketing has decided to apply. In addition, stricter requirements have been laid down for the supervision of the free school area on several occasions. This also applies to openness with donations to schools, and I know that the Minister of Education is positive about discussing the need for further action. Finally, the government has decided that general welfare associations must inform about foreign aid going beyond DKK 20,000 in order to be recognised by SKAT. A number of initiatives have already been taken, and with our agreement with the Danish People's Party we will now look further at how, on the basis of a ban list, we can try to completely stop donations that undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights, and indeed in a way that does not affect the wrong ones, understood as completely legitimate donations from abroad. We must also avoid introducing new requirements that unnecessarily bother all our 100 000 associations in Denmark, because we are concerned about a few, and there will probably not actually be a legally proportional basis for doing so. And then we must find a solution so that, at the same time, we comply with our international obligations. The question that the Danish People's Party is asking here today is, of course, specifically whether the government will prevent foreign support for mosques and other Muslim purposes, and I will say here, for the sake of good order, that we cannot, of course, make rules that only include certain religions. That's not what we're going for. We are going to stop the support specifically aimed at working against and undermining democracy and fundamental freedoms. This is what we have agreed on in the financial law agreement, and I look forward very much to discussing these matters more closely with the Danish People's Party very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213143706	Thank you for that to the Minister. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213143719	Thank you. The reason for the debate, which I also mentioned at the outset, is that a number of storm mosques have been built in Denmark, to which we know that financial aid has been made available from outside. There has been some ambiguity about the flow of funds, and this has caused concern and fear among the people and political decision-makers that, in the wake of the financial subsidies, conditions have been followed in relation to preaching certain things and that the mosque must belong to a certain direction. There have been many issues, there have been uncertainty, problems and challenges, and we do not think this is fair to Danish society and to the Danes. That is why we in the Danish People's Party want it to be made illegal to receive financial resources for religious and cultural buildings and purposes in Denmark from foreign state powers or from persons and organisations associated with terrorist movements, for example, or who oppose democracy and Western values and living. The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution on this in the past, which reminds us quite a bit of what we got through in the financial law agreement, so we have at least got closer with the financial law agreement. Of course, we would like to sign a good agreement with the Minister and the government, including on this point. Now it has to be translated and translated into something that can be used in the real world, and it can almost only go too slowly. We've been discussing this for quite some time. When we in the Danish People's Party have wanted to stick to today's debate in this Chamber, it is because we hope that the majority can become even wider in terms of doing something about these foreign donations. Now the government has clearly stated that this can be done, and hopefully it can get other parties to back it up. In the Finance Act agreement, the government undertakes to present a concrete model to the Danish People's Party before the turn of the year, and I hope that we can have it quickly translated into legislation. So we must now have reached where the many words that have been said about this for several years can finally be translated into concrete action, and we look forward to that from the Danish People's Party. It has to be the words. Then, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that it is highly unsatisfactory that some foreign organisations and foreign regimes etc. supports religious construction and various activities which may undermine the value base on which Denmark is based. The Danish Parliament notes that the government of the 2019 Finance Act has agreed with the Danish People's Party that, in addition to the scheme of national lists of named foreign religious preachers, which can be excluded from entry to Denmark on the grounds that they must be considered a threat to public order in Denmark (hate preachers), a new regime is to be introduced which, within the framework of the Constitution and Denmark's international obligations, can specifically prevent foreign donations to religious communities, associations, etc., when these undermine democracy and fundamental human and freedoms. • V 47).
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144009	That too is now part of the further negotiations. Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144028	Thank you. I have then found occasion to start my rapporteur's speech a little backwards, because it was agreed that I should come forward with the proposal for adoption here. I have a correction to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr von der Vring on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Martin Henriksen has just read out, for it is of course the Financial Act for the 2019 year in draft adoption no. V 47 as published I have delivered the text electronically. It is true that today's question is an important debate, and I look forward, as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, to the further discussion of the problem that we are united in defending our open model of society with extensive freedoms for all regardless of religious or personal beliefs. However, it is also rights which, like other rights, must meet with relevant duties; right and duty go hand in hand with our democracy, at least when you are a social democrat. No freedom is unlimited. Our rights to religious freedom, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of the press are enshrined in the Constitution, but they should not be abused to counter and undermine our social model or to cultural and social control of citizens. The Social Democratic Party agrees with the government and the Danish People's Party on the issue of foreign donations of money to religious communities, as stated in their draft budget for 2019. The government and the Danish People's Party have proposed that foreign donations of money to religious communities, associations etc., the purpose of which is to counter and undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms, should be combated. We support the proposal for a scheme which is within the framework of the Constitution and Denmark's international obligations, which the Minister also mentioned very nicely and specifically, and for the purpose of preventing donations. We look forward to discussing a model that the government's presentation of a sustainable regime could be. And, of course, when we give support to this, we also expect to be called for discussions on how that model should be put together. I also need to say that it is the municipalities that decide, through local plans, where religious buildings can be built, and it is the municipalities that issue building permits. In fact, we do not have any rules today on how donations should be linked to the financing of such buildings. Some of the buildings belong to communities or associations that do not Therefore, as a large and responsible party here in the Danish Parliament, we want to continue to work to ensure that in Denmark there is room for churches, mosques, synagogues and other religious buildings. In fact, we believe that such meeting places are helping to increase the sense of community across communities. This is something we see when clergy leaders across religions cooperate for the benefit of people and communities. Unfortunately, however, we also see the opposite, namely that in some places it can be used as a gathering place for negative group formations, where the clergy leader helps to radicalise people who, in the worst case, can also lead to violent acts. We have seen that in this country, unfortunately, and we are seeing it, perhaps now too, in a few of our neighbouring countries. That is why we need to find a model in which foreign donations from countries that do not support democracy and religious freedom cannot be used to build mosques around the country from which messages can be preached that undermine our principles of a social model. So that is what the proposal for adoption which was read out a moment ago is all about. It is naive to believe that such donations alone are given to benefit the diversity of religious communities here in Denmark. In the Folketing we therefore have a responsibility to ensure that the possibility of religions etc. can obtain support from abroad, not abused for foreign powers to actively promote deeply problematic political ideologies that are in stark contrast to our Danish and open democracy. Then I would like to conclude by saying that without unreasonable generalisation, it is a fact that we have great challenges in integrating certain groupings among non-western immigrants, so that they naturally form part of our community based on the core principles of the constitution. That integration effort must not be thwarted by foreign powers. We need more, and we need to be careful with generalisations that are unfair. So we would like to support the proposal for adoption that has been read out, but we would also like to be invited to cooperate and debate on the future model.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144540	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144545	It's just a simple question. I just want to hear: does this proposal include donations from Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144553	We haven't gotten to any geography in it. Now we are going to debate and then we have to look at what we are going to achieve.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144559	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144604	It was not so much a geographical issue, it was more of a matter of opinion. Turkey is, after all, a country which is going in the wrong direction in all areas in terms of human rights and democracy, which oppresses its minority and oppresses its opposition. Members of Parliament who disagree with the government are in prison. They even do actions in Denmark against resident Turks. There are Danish citizens who are imprisoned in Turkey. When we talk about undemocratic regimes, it must surely be relatively clear whether Turkey or a country that behaves like Turkey is covered by it here, if it is not to be clean air.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144654	I can only repeat that we do not have a list of countries in advance, and that is why we say that we are involved in the discussions. Whether a specific country list should be drawn up or whether we should look at the conditions of individual donations must be up to the negotiations that then have to take place, and they will then take place among the parties behind the proposal for adoption that has been read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144715	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144734	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. We all know that Danish society is built on a number of freedoms which form the basis of our democracy. These are rights such as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and, of course, freedom of religion. We believe that the individual is the best starting point for making decisions in his own life. This is the freedom to think, believe and speak as you please. That is why we want to safeguard values at all times. We did so in 2016, when we introduced a list of hate preachers who are no longer allowed to enter Denmark. These preachers of hatred are people who, with reference to religious preaching, preach against the freedoms we have in Denmark. It is people who hate our values so much that they must be regarded as a threat to public order in Denmark. It is people who want to break down the community we have. But we also have freedom of religion in Denmark. This means that all people within the law must believe and worship the god they want. It is also important to safeguard. Having said that, however, we do not tolerate foreign forces trying to counter the values that Denmark is built on. We do not want economic donations to produce resistance and hatred against our country. We do not want foreign forces to have the opportunity to destroy the community we have in Denmark. The 2019 Finance Act also contains initiatives to combat foreign money donations to religious communities, associations and the like if the purpose of the donation is to counter and undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms. Specifically, we have agreed that a system should be established which, with respect for the Constitution and Denmark's international commitments, specifically prevents donations that undermine our society. It goes without saying that we must do our best to prevent this kind of breeding in Denmark. We want to safeguard both freedom and the community. Without the community there is no framework within which freedom can live. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144939	We would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213144955	Thank you. I actually believe that I will start by reading out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radical Left, which reads: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to investigate the possibility of preventing/forbringing transfers of funds from countries with authoritarian regimes that suppress human rights and/or do not accept the transfer of money from abroad to their own political, religious or cultural organisations. The study shall also include a list of the advantages and disadvantages of such action, primarily in relation to the promotion of human rights. • V 48). When I start reading that proposal, it is because I think it illustrates some of the paradoxes or dilemmas that exist in this matter. I am here with an article from the Politiken of 21 July, which says: "New Russian law stamps NGOs as foreign agents'. And then it goes on to say that Russia's President Vladimir Putin has signed on Saturday a controversial law passed by Parliament. It stamps all non-governmental organisations receiving financial assistance from abroad as foreign agents, says the Kremlin. The law has given rise to deep concern among activists. They fear that it will be used to stigmatise critical NGOs. Both the EU and the United States condemn the law, which affects both NGOs and churches, which frequently receive contributions from foreign congregations. The critics believe that President Putin is trying to get the shovel under the opposition, which now fears the worst. Why is this a little relevant? Yes, it is relevant because we see how authoritarian regimes use it, that there is foreign support for NGOs, for churches and for democratic organisations, to restrict freedom of expression. There is no doubt that if we introduce a similar law in Denmark, it will be used as an argument for their law. Now I am not assuming that someone wants to introduce a similar law, but that only requires it to be very, very precise, that it is very, very clear what the purpose is. Who is to be hit and who is not to be hit? And I think it is perhaps a little thought-provoking that it seems as if the question of whether or not it should hit Turkey is completely surprising at least one of the authors of the motion. Now, of course, I will ask Mr. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party on what Mr. Martin Henriksen believes, because it is there that things become concrete. Turkey is a NATO country which, on all parameters, violates or goes in the wrong direction in terms of human rights, which imprisons opposition MEPs, accuses them according to paragraphs that can give up to 142 years of imprisonment. Even one of the presidential candidates was in prison during the election campaign. You suppress minorities, you restrict freedom of expression, you put journalists in prison. Turkey is the country with the most journalists in prison. There will be large donations and great help from Turkey to communities, including churches, in Denmark. Is that included? Then you can shoot it out and say that okay, we can't just take a stand on that here, but who will have to take a position on that? Is this something to be decided by a court of law? Is it a court decision or is it an administrative decision? I think that there are a great many questions that arise, and that is something I am saying from a positive point of view, because basically I believe that we should not, of course, tolerate the fact that regimes which refuse the opposition to function, which attack church communities in their own countries, etc., can simply pump money into reactionary institutions which are used for social control and various things in our societies. I totally agree with that. I myself, when I was driving emergency convoys in Bosnia, have seen how the United Arab Emirates used exactly the funding to promote the Islamisation of Bosnia. It only succeeded in part, but it was clearly a certain goal where they took advantage of their donations through mosques, which also served food to people who otherwise did not have food. That's what they used for that kind of thing. In short, it is not because I and we are negative about discussing this issue • I actually think there is a real problem • but I think we should be very careful, as the example from Russia shows, and that is also why we think there is a need for a further study where the advantages and disadvantages are listed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213145504	This proposal for adoption is now also part of the further debate and we have just received a copy of it. Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further, and that is to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213145524	Thank you very much. There is a global phenomenon, which is that typically rich donors from, for example. Saudi Arabia or Iran or Qatar or other countries sponsor extremist Islamic movements. This is also done by financing mosques. We in Denmark should be wary of this, because extremist movements who are consciously working to undermine democracy, fundamental liberal freedoms, believe that we must be combated. That is why we have agreed with the Finance Act that a system should be put in place to combat this type of donation in some way, and this must, of course, be done within the framework that we normally work under in Denmark. Basically, it is a question of balancing right between the interests of freedom of religion, fundamental liberal freedoms, on the one hand, and avoiding the spread of extremist movements aimed at suppressing democracy and freedom on the other. Against this background, we in the Liberal Alliance can support the text which Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213145641	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213145652	Thank you. I'll be brief today. We are in favour of the text adopted by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. Søren Søndergaard read out, and we are therefore also fully in line with that, Mr. Søren Søndergaard said that we need to have an investigation into how we can regulate it here, but at the same time on the basis of some perspectives that take into account how the countries that might be donating to Denmark stay within the international conventions that we have acceded to and which are important to us. From this perspective, it is not just about donations to mosques; it is about the fact that we dare to be so critical on the part of the Danish state, so we say that we have no interest in doing business in any way with countries that are dictatorships and who work, you can say, non-democratic, or who do not respect human rights and international conventions. So it's a much broader discussion than just a matter of donations to mosques. I don't remember when it was, but we were standing in here not long ago... I think I'm down here all the time... where we discussed exactly the same thing in the open school area, namely donations to buildings, buildings owned by, for example. international organisations into which free schools could then rent themselves, and in fact, as far as I remember, there is a majority outside the government in order to ban it. But then you just have to say what it is that we do it, that is, what criteria we have to do. I am extremely afraid that with this somewhat national-conservative approach we are going to close ourselves around ourselves in Denmark, because somewhere it is actually positive that sometimes some foreign donors will contribute to, for example. a free school in Denmark or, for that matter, to build a church or a religious institution of some kind, as long as it is democratic, as long as it is transparent, as long as it complies with all the conventions that we are all part of. So I think we should be careful that we do not shut ourselves down and become a country that cannot get foreign inspiration into Denmark. When we talked about it in the free school area, the minister said quite rightly: What if you want to start a free school somewhere in Jutland and there is a large amount of money from the United States, for example. or somewhere else that can get the free school up and running, and if that donation is not there, can it actually be done? So are we gonna say no to that? No, we're not. So we need to be smart about how to regulate this area. At the same time, of course, we fully agree that we should not have donations for example. Danish mosques or churches or anything else that comes from organisations that are not democratic or that have an activity that is contrary to our conventions. So we need to have it regulated, yes, but I think we should look at it wider than just in relation to these mosques, and that's also why we're on the adoption text that Enhedslisten read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213145948	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213145959	I have spent quite a lot of hours in this Chamber this week, both because I have many rapporteurs and because we in the parties have a lot of disagreements about foreign policy, and there has been a lot of discussion about it this week. But here I would actually like to say that it seems that we in the Danish Parliament in this area agree on at least a few things, because I hear that most rapporteurs who have so far been on the platform agree that there can be donations especially from certain countries and organisations which neither of us is interested in coming in and becoming a contribution to Denmark and the development of different religions in Denmark. So I would really like to send the message to the government and also to the Danish People's Party that when this study, analysis, or what it is called, which has been decided under the Finance Act, is completed, we would very much like to see the Radical Left come up with constructive negotiations and discussions on how we can set up a system that is also contained in the government parties and DF's proposals for adoption, within the framework of both human rights, the constitution and international obligations, where it is possible for us to prevent or prohibit certain types of donations. So I would urge that we should at some point, on the basis of the work of the government, have a sensible discussion on this. Then a small result has come out of one of the many discussions we have had this week on immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150136	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150145	We have up to 170 mosques in Denmark. A minority of them have chosen to be recognized. They did so in connection with the last recognition we received last year. I think it is good that we have changed the law so that there is transparency about the accounts of the recognised religions and that there is transparency about their members and so on. I think that's really, really good. But a majority of the mosques have chosen not to accept it. Some of the largest of them have chosen not to be recognized, and I am surprised. Among other things: the largest mosque on Nørrebro, built for 150 million. kr., has chosen not to be recognized, the Grimhøjmosque in Aarhus has chosen not to be recognized, the Heimdalsgademosque at Nørrebro, which is Hizb ut-Tahir's mosque, has chosen not to be recognized. If they are recognised, they will be kept under review and their accounts and their financing. That is why I think there is some suspicion that some of those who have chosen not to allow themselves to be recognised and also blue-stamped, and that is why we have a challenge in relation to some of those who have chosen not to be recognised. I think it is extremely important that we have an overview of their financing and their accounts. We are opposed to banning the funding of religions across national borders. Well, the Norwegian church is financed by Norway, and they must continue to be able to do so. We fund Danish churches abroad, and it must also continue. What is important is who is funding. A great deal is now being said about various countries that are financing. Now it is not the countries that finance some of those mosques, schools and cultural institutions. I have at least been told by several ambassadors from the Gulf countries that it is not the countries that are officially financing, but it is funds, it is rich princes who finance some of those mosques. That is why I think we should find some way to prevent extremist funds from financing some of those mosques. I know there's a working group working on it to look at it. I believe that we should be inspired by the Treasury of the United States. There they have drawn up a list of funds and people from whom no funds, funds and people who are suspect and who have extreme starting points, and let us start from that list. I hope so. I really think it is important that we find a solution to the financing of not only the extreme mosques, but all mosques. I think that there should be transparency about the accounts. For those who finance it also has to decide which ideology is going to dominate in the various mosques. So I look forward to the work that has been started and to seeing if we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150506	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150507	Thank you. Now Mr. After all, Naser Khader is the Turkish system where there is a ministry where an official sermon is being sent to the mosques and there is a large economic system which also includes funeral transportations etc. etc. There are a lot of things that come under it, and I'd like to have mr. Naser Khader's assessment of how Mr. Naser Khader sees Turkey in the picture we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150544	Well, before our friend Erdogan got here, I think it worked really well. For there they sent imams to Denmark for 3 years, which should focus on religion and the religious messages and not interfere so much in politics and be so political. This has been changed under Erdogan. There have also been stories that some of those imams who are being sent here act almost as informants in relation to Turkish citizens here. That is why I myself have been out to say a few times that we should perhaps look at the regime that we have with Turkey, which is very advantageous, and whether we should continue with that regime with the Turks. Actually, I don't think so. I therefore think that we should look at whether the Turks should not be treated in the same way as all other countries in relation to the imams they send to Denmark. And the Turks have been here for generations now. One must be able to find imams born and raised in Denmark to carry out that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150648	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150648-2	Thank you for your answer, because I think it added some aspects to that. This shows just how careful and accurate you have to be. We are, after all, talking about a NATO country, are we not? which, in all sorts of other contexts, changing governments do not dare to bother in any way, but are very silent, and we close our eyes to all sorts of abuses. That is why the worst thing that can happen is for us to draw up guidelines, some practices that lead us to have double standards, where we have one standard for some countries and then we have some other standards for some other countries that do exactly the same thing, but as for example. is a member of NATO and is our ally, and then we close our eyes to it. But I also understood that Mr. Naser Khader was aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150747	Yeah. Yeah, we're pretty much on the same page. It's rare, but we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150757	I consider that to be the end of the matter. Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150810	Now, after all, this is the second question debate we have had today, and one can say that where in the first one there was a lot to pick up after the debate, perhaps not so much is in this one. Because it has to be said that there is a broad recognition that we are facing a challenge, and there is also a broad recognition that we are facing a number of dilemmas when it comes to imposing a ban on donations. However, as stated in the Finance Act, the government, together with the Danish People's Party, is now going into some discussions to look at the framework for a ban. I think it is very good that we have already started discussions here today. Because we are going to spend some time on it, even when at some point there is a result of the discussions we have with the Danish People's Party, and I would really just like to thank you for the input here. In fact, I think it is positive to be able to say that we all see the challenges and all see that there are dilemmas with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150926	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150929	I will be very specific in my question. I do not think that it sounded like an invitation from the Minister to the parties that have expressed a positive opinion on helping to stop it. Is this just a closed negotiation between the government and DF? Do you want to keep it really, really narrow there? I heard other parties both myself, but also the Radical Left and others raise their hands and say that you want to take a look at a model. So when are we coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213150954	It is always nice to have an outstretched hand, but it is true that the first negotiations here will be between the Danish People's Party and the government. And I assume that we can come up with some sort of solution, which I hope, of course, that the whole parliament can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151012	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151013	Then I would just recommend the Minister and the Danish People's Party to bring the rest of us before you have shut yourselves up completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151022	At any rate, I have heard the call. If it is accepted, I cannot say quite so today. At any rate, I can say that the Danish People's Party and the government intend to join forces here very, very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151038	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151040	The truth is concrete, and what we see for the legend here is that there is a clear block policy. And I'm not gonna be the one who's sorry. I do not want to be the one who says anything against parties that think they are basically the same, being part of a block, and then driving out there. The electorate has, of course, given a mandate to do so. What I just hope we can then get a nod from the Minister about is that it is certainly not from the Minister, we hear any regret about block policy in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151115	I have to say that my cooperation and that of the government with the Danish People's Party is very good, and I am fully satisfied with that. So that way, I have no objection. But it's always nice to get good input, also from Enhedslisten. It is very rare that we can thus agree on something, but exciting it is always with input from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151143	We thank the Minister. To conclude the debate, Mr President, it is the rapporteur for the questioners. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151151	Thank you. There is not so much to add, other than that, of course, we in the Danish People's Party are satisfied that, after we have raised this in several rounds of motions for resolutions and, as far as I remember, also in other debates on questions, it now looks as if there is something I do not know whether it is because it is Christmas that it is so, because then we will consider making more proposals up to Christmas another good time by being a slightly broader understanding that it is necessary to do something in this area. We are looking forward from the Danish People's Party to finding a concrete model for this, which is to be based on the national list of religious ministers, and the national list has had an effect. There are, after all, a number of people who have come on that list and who have now been cut off from entering Denmark, and I think that if you take that as a starting point, you can also find a sensible model that we can implement. So we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151252	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151253	Yes, because contrary to the last question that the Danish People's Party raised under the previous paragraph, which was totally fluffy in its wording on what was the theme of the discussion, this is very concrete. And I think that the Danish People's Party should be commended for this, that is to say that they have raised a specific question debate where you know what it is about and which is targeted. On the other hand, I also think that then the Danish People's Party has probably thought about what this will mean when it is believed that foreign transfers of funds for the construction of mosques and for Muslim cultural, ideological and religious purposes in Denmark should be prevented. And that is why I would like to ask the question I have put to others: does the Danish People's Party also think about Turkey, or does Turkey constitute such a special category, which is excluded from that wording?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151350	We in the Danish People's Party also think of Turkey, there should be no doubt about that. Whether it will eventually become part of the model, I cannot say, because what has been agreed in the Finance Act is that the government has undertaken to make a proposal for a model and present it to the Danish People's Party before the turn of the year. And that model, of course, must be explained by the government itself somewhere, but if it is a model based on the national list we have of religious preachers on which to come, then it will not be a list on which there are specific countries, but it will be a list where, on the basis of certain criteria, it will be assessed specifically in each case whether the purpose of the money transfer from the ministry or fund abroad, for example. is to undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms. And if that's the point, then we go in and prevent the transfer. That is, of course, what lies in the financial law agreement, and we must then find a concrete model for that. Even if, at some point, there will be transfers from Turkey which will be prevented, I think it will be very obvious. But whether it is going to be that way depends on the actual discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151501	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will be held on Tuesday 18 December 2018. Then we will take a short break as we need to change rapporteurs and ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151800	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 18 December 2018. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, for a justification of the query. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213151823	Thank you. What we are going to talk about today actually started too many, many years ago, but if we are going to settle for the shorter story, then a number of parties set targets in 2011, specifically on 22 March, for the health and safety strategy, which was called "A strategy for health and safety at work by 2020'. The parties said there should be 25%. less of the serious accidents at work; there should be 20 per cent. fewer people with mental workloads; there should be 20 per cent. fewer people with muscle and skeletal loads. We have discussed this on a regular basis until 2017, when the NFA created a status. The status stated that there was a slight decrease in serious accidents, but not in construction at the time; there was an increase in the number of people with muscle and skeletal disorders of 14 per cent.; and there was an increase in the number of people with psychic health and safety loads of 17 per cent. So it had gone the opposite way to what was intended. And that's where we started to get close to 2020, and now we're getting even closer. That is why the Minister also said on 30 March 2017 and it was a very significant statement by a minister responsible for the area: "As Minister for Employment, I am concerned about developments. With the figures we are seeing today, I can see that the work on working conditions has failed • • that the effort simply does not work as intended • does not work as intended. That is why he then set up a committee and he said well enough, fortunately, that we could then work a little along the way if we could get to it. That committee has then come up with a poetry work in September this year, where the key is 18 recommendations for improving the working environment. It happened on September 27, 2018. After a while had passed and we thought that the Minister would act, Karsten Hønge and I talked about whether we would not have a debate on this soon, and that is why we called this question on 1 November. In the meantime, the Minister has invited all parties to negotiations, not just the old conciliation group, and we look forward to that very much. But we think it is very good that we should then be able to start and, at least, discuss what are the most central issues that such negotiations could get under way. And that is why we have both maintained the request but also prepared a proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213152125	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Then it is for answering the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213152139	Thank you for the opportunity to discuss the working environment here in Parliament, which we have had occasion to do a number of times, while I have had the pleasure of being Minister for Employment. Sir. Christian Juhl starts by saying what it was I, if I may say so, read aloud in my rapporteur's speech... it was not a rapporteur's speech, for it was a ministerial statement on 30 March 2017. I remember that speech quite carefully for many reasons, but mainly because on 30 March is a day of celebration in Denmark, because it is my birthday, so I can remember very clearly what happened during that debate. That it was my birthday was not what was important, but it was that we had a discussion about the figures which were, of course, the basis of the question we had at the time. This has led to many different things, which I would also like to mention, but if you start in such a general way, I have repeatedly stated that there is a need for us to rethink our work on health and safety. This is an important issue which affects all the over 2.7 million Danish employees who stand up and do their jobs every day, and therefore it also requires political attention. It must be healthy and safe to go to work. I have made that clear in numerous consultations, and I have also made that clear in this Chamber. Why is this so important? Yes, it is first and foremost because it is now a foundation for a well-functioning labour market that you can safely and safely go to work without getting sick. After all, as politicians, we also have a responsibility to ensure that. Companies have a responsibility to ensure this, and it is also important that the individual employee does what he can to have a good and safe working environment. This is good for all of us, and that is why I am actually looking forward to the debate here today. As Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned that an expert committee was set up in the field of health and safety, which was set up on 30 March 2017, not as such, but it was announced, and the committee has then worked, and it has worked with Chairman Pia Gjellerup in the lead with the ambition of trying to rethink the work on health and safety in Denmark. I think it is important that we also have the courage to think newly, to try to see whether things can be done differently from they have been done in the past, and that is why I would like to sign today for the recommendations which have come from the committee, which I think are very good in many respects, and which can also help to set a new course. In fact, I am also pleased that we are now starting to embark on the negotiations which will form the basis of a new political agreement. After all, the whole process has been characterised by the fact that the Committee of Experts made its recommendations at the end of September. This then led to the possibility of a technical review for the Parliament's Employment Committee. The Working Environment Council has been invited to a technical review, and in addition there has also been a set meeting where all the parties of the Danish Parliament have been invited and where we now have the opportunity this week, but also next week, to speak to the various parties in a more one-way way about how they view the further process. It's a bottom-up job. We have a responsibility to ensure that the rules and efforts are properly combined. Monitoring must be targeted and be able to take into account the different occupational health and safety problems that exist in different sectors and in different companies. There is also a need to see whether the priorities in this area are right. There is no doubt that one of the areas which requires more political attention, which we also discussed in the Working Environment Committee, is the whole question of the chemical sector. We have seen this most recently in the course of the process on the chemical substance chrome-6. In addition, it is also important, I think, that we ensure a stronger knowledge chain between the research produced, the supervisory effort, the supervisory authority and the preventive action that must take place and take place in the individual workplace. That is some of the things I think can be improved. However, it is also important to point out that it is not the case that since spring 2017 we have not taken political initiatives or taken initiatives. For example: A large number of broad agreements have been concluded, for example. on asbestos prevention on the basis of recommendations from a working group with the social partners, which was indeed set in motion under my predecessor, Jørgen Neergaard, at the request of Mr. Christian Juhl and Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party. We have also reached a political agreement in the Working Conditions Association to ensure better protection of firemen from exposure to particles and soot, and we have, by a broad majority, provided the Labour Inspectorate with better tools to talk to employees when they are under supervision, and more opportunities to react, not least to acts of infringement. In addition, a special effort has also been made in relation to agriculture and a new method of supervision in the construction sector, and unfortunately we also have to note or, unfortunately, we have to be careful how to formulate ourselves. We have to note that with the new method of supervision, the Factory Inspectorate finds material health and safety problems of almost half of the visited construction companies. That's way more than it used to be. When I say, unfortunately, this is because it is an expression of the fact that the supervisory effort has not been properly combined in the past. You shouldn't be afraid to say that out loud. It is also an indication that the funds have not been used sensibly, which is why I believe that supervisory efforts can be made more intelligently. Nor do I have a second in doubt that we need to become more industry-oriented, we need to have a more tailor-made model for our supervision, to mention just some of those elements. I am also quite open to the need for the social partners to have a more active role, as proposed by the Committee of Experts in its recommendation. Then I also note that I have repeatedly mentioned to the political parties that I believe that a 4-year agreement is needed on our work on working conditions, both in order to ensure stability and continuity in how the funds are given priority, but also, of course, in order to discuss politically what it is for an economic level that will be for the Labour Inspectorate from 2020 and 4 years into the future, if it is a 4-year agreement that we agree on. It is my expectation and my hope that in the coming months, in the course of February, perhaps into March, we will be able to agree on a broad political agreement on a new work environment for the benefit of Danish society. It also owes it to say that having the certainty of ensuring a strong and healthy working environment in many ways is a really good idea, both for the individual and indeed for society's economy. The fact that people do not get sick from going to work or from being exposed to accidents at work is therefore something that can only be improved, understood in the sense that it is something that makes our spending across the welfare community less. So with that I will look forward to the political negotiations and also look forward to some good discussions here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213152937	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213152940	After all, we were at a major meeting in Nyborg, and one of the workshops over there was a presentation of a study of what helps in the working environment. Johan Hviid Andersen, professor of occupational medicine in Herning, said that they had studied more than 1,000 scientific studies, and that well above the 90 reported that stricter legislation and effective supervision clearly improve the working environment in the workplace. He said that we do not need to discuss this anymore, because it is so clear in all the studies and there are many studies on it. What does the Minister think such a study should be used for when we discuss how we deal with these matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153033	First of all, I must say that I have not read the relevant study. But basically, a lot of research is just something that documents common sense. Well, that's not rocket science. In my world, it would also be the case that if you exercise proper supervision, it will have an effect. Now I mentioned the construction. This is an area in which we have to say that it is not because we gain good supervision by entering an empty construction site office. That is not what helps the individual construction work or the individual earth and concrete work. That is why we have done the supervisory work, and this is basically the best example of how to use resources more effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153115	It is the case that the Bureau has decided that in question debates there is only one question per question. rapporteur. That's why it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153124	First of all, let me say that I think this is a very good vision that the Minister is setting out by saying that we must have some four-year agreements with the Labour Inspectorate. The stop-and-go policy towards them is totally untenable. So that is absolutely a good signal. But what about the second signal? What is the Minister's general view of the possibilities of contributing to the economic recovery of the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153148	I welcome the SF's approach, that is to say that it is wise to make a four-year agreement, and I would also like to sign for that, because changing governments have led a stop and go policy, and we must get away from that. It's not that we need to have a long discussion about it. It's prehistoric knowledge. I am quite open to also discussing how we can strengthen the Factory Inspectorate on the basis of two things: firstly, whether we can use the resources of the Factory Inspectorate more sensibly, and I think we can do that, i.e. that we can have more labour inspection for the money. However, I am of the opinion that we also need to discuss the labour inspectorate's economy, and there I have not yet heard any parties suggesting that the Labour Inspectorate should be cut. So it is, of course, a discussion about how the Labour Inspectorate's appropriations should be, and there are urgent issues that arise in this regard. It is no more than a few weeks ago that not least the Danish People's Party, with the agreement reached on the Finance Act, was the reason why the effort for orderly conditions within the Danish Labour Inspectorate has now been lifted, and that is one of the reasons for this. against the backdrop of some sad and serious examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153255	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153256	Thank you. First of all, I would like to sign up to the Minister's statements and say that, as such, I am very much in agreement with the approach taken by the Minister in terms of adapting the work on health and safety. But what I would like to ask is this: now there are 18 proposals from the Committee of Experts: what value does the Minister attach to the 18 proposals, and what value does the Minister attach to the two proposals, which have also been made by the social partners, in relation to the forward-looking negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153346	I think it can be seen that the social partners have, of course, made it clear that they have reached an agreement on the recommendations now made, and that is why their signal to the political system here in Christiansborg is well known: think very carefully about how you are going to influence the recommendations that have been made, because we have, as we have discussed it in great depth. I think this is a good thing in many ways, and I do not, because it is necessary to outsource the political decision-making power to the social partners. I am, in fact, against this, but because the fact that the social partners have actually now entered a space which one must say they have had difficulty in entering in the past is positive. Then, of course, I also note that the social partners do not have to make financial legislation. They have a lot of wishes, and I suppose it's hard not to have wishes if you're an interest organization; I would have, if it were me, but I'm not an interest organisation. I'm something else, and I'm not going to be an interest organisation either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153442	Then we thank the Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate, and that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213153450	There is a great deal of preventive work going on at the Danish workplaces. There are thousands of health and safety representatives who make good efforts every day. They are not always well educated, nor do they always receive equal support from their employers. There is a professional but very expensive advice that can help companies, and the Factory Inspectorate is on its way to being trimmed. I believe that both resources and other working methods and the training of employees are needed. But far too many of us are still getting sick in the body or in the mind of going to work, and that applies to all industries. Poor safety costs life and ability, too high a pace wears down the body, and too little time for too many tasks gives stress. Listen to the figures here: 500,000 people are stressed in Denmark, 300,000 suffer from work, a tenth of them take painkillers every day in order to carry their way. As many as 42,000 times every year, it goes wrong, and one of us gets hurt at work. 30 families are told each year that one of their loved ones never comes home from work again. 2,000 others die of a suffering they've had from working every year. It is a waste of good human resources and an accumulation of immensely great pain for really, very many. I find it quite unacceptable that it has become normal to risk accidents, stress and wearing out of work. Private employers can cynically suck more and more efficiency and greater profits from their employees, who pay the price for it. Fortunately, not all employers do this because they have realised that there is money for them too to make on a good working environment. The public cuts down while they turn up the tempo. I have asked the Minister many times now and now it seems that we have come into a situation where we can start to plan for a new style and a new direction. Try to imagine that these numbers I mentioned before were from traffic, would we have accepted for so many years that it just happened? No, of course we wouldn't, and neither should we in the field of health and safety. There is nothing more important than people's lives and health, which is why we need to make a powerful effort to improve the working environment in Denmark. It is not the individual's responsibility, as is often done, especially when we talk about the psychological working environment, which should be called the organizational and social working environment instead, in order to explain what it is really about. It is often said that it is probably your own fault, and it is written in the ads: We only seek robust labour. Understandably, there's a whole lot of non-robust labor. What the hell are they thinking? I am very pleased that the social partners, in particular the LO and the FTF, are now launching a huge campaign next year and calling 2019 the Year of Working Conditions Representatives, where they will focus on the person who is the most important, namely the health and safety representative and the organisation that he or she is involved in at the workplace at conferences, courses and in debates and activities. It is expensive to have a bad working environment. In the introduction to the Committee of Experts' Terms of Reference, the Minister for Employment writes that it is about 80 billion. kr. a year for society in treatments, early retirement and in lost production. That's a big number. I do not remember that the Enhedslisten has ever been allowed to amend 80 billion in a single Finance Act. kr. in the budget. It's gonna come sometime, but it's a wild number. Imagine what could be done by good things for the 80 billion. kr. in relation to what results only in pain, suffering, death and lack of production efficiency. But it doesn't do much, because we have the money to start doing something preventive. We have a fund for prevention and retention where there is more than 1.2 billion. kr. For three years we have been in vain asking the Minister when to put this money into action so that we can get some results, and the answer has always been: not now. I hope that this debate will lead to a direction and that it will become as common to all parties as possible, because I think it is really, really necessary. On behalf of Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption • Everyone has the right to a safe and healthy working environment without risk of damage to health. Employers are primarily responsible for the safety and health of workplaces. The 2017 NFA survey showed in the Minister of Employment's own words that the work on working conditions has failed. That the effort simply does not work as intended. The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the Minister for Employment invites all parties of the Danish Parliament to debate the recommendations of the Committee of Experts. Parliament calls for priority to be given to these areas of action: V 49).
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154109	Thank you. That will then be part of the further negotiations. Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154122	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten and the SF for raising the debate today. After all, none of us are here in doubt that working conditions is an important issue. And right now, when the committee of experts has submitted their proposals and we are just about to start the political negotiations, it may be good to have the positions of the parties unveiled. The background to our debate is deeply serious. Despite the fact that for decades there has been a focus on creating a better working environment, in line with the knowledge and experience we have gained as a society, we can see that there is still room for improvement. The effort for a better working environment does not work well enough or as intended. We can call it what we want. In any case, we still have the merit of seeing that there is a decrease in the number of accidents, in the number of people who suffer or suffer an occupational disease, and a decrease in the number of people who experience poor mental health and safety conditions. It costs society in the vicinity of 80 billion. kr. Every year in lost work, support costs, health care and, above all, a myriad of wasted good years of life that cannot be made up of money. In the Social Democratic Party, therefore, we believe that it makes very good sense that we have had a committee of experts looking at new and better ways to go to strengthen efforts for a good working environment and to reverse the trend and make the curves point in the right direction, namely down. The Committee of Experts is brazen with 18 proposals on what a future policy should contain as a minimum. These are 18 good proposals in which the committee has also chosen to risk the fur and go into areas where it has not been possible in the past. Here I see it as a strength that the social partners have sat in the committee and thus committed themselves and each other. This means, in exchange for us in the Social Democratic Party, that in the forthcoming negotiations we will attach great importance to the overall position of the Committee of Experts, including the two proposals which have been added in an appendix as a special contribution from the LO and the DA. We recognise the great amount of work that has been done, and we can also see that there may be areas where it is necessary to add to and build on in order to achieve the full goal. And without prejudging the forthcoming negotiations, I can tell you that we want to discuss the division of roles and tasks between the Factory Inspectorate, the industry communities and the professional health and safety advisors. We want to discuss how to ensure that the half of the labour market, which is not covered by the rules of labour market organisation, is involved. And we want to discuss how to ensure that chemistry is given more attention in future work. When all this is in place, it will be an independent discussion about the economy that needs to be in order to finance the efforts that we are going to have agreed. All in all, however, we in the Social Democratic Party are looking forward to the forthcoming negotiations and we look forward to having a basis for future work on health and safety in a broad circle of parties. I would like to conclude by reading out a proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Radical Left. It's like this: Suggested adoption • You shouldn't get sick or get hurt from going to work. The health and safety effort must support that it is safe and healthy to go to work in Denmark. This is primarily for the benefit of individuals, but also for jobs and society as a whole. The Danish Parliament notes that initiatives have been taken to support a better working environment, including that the Danish Parliament notes at the same time that negotiations have begun on the recommendations of the Committee of Experts on Safety and Health at Work published on 27 September. • V 50).
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154602	Thank you. That will then be part of the further debate. There is a question from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154606	Thank you. To the astonishing listeners, I have to say that it is no shame not to be part of a proposal for adoption when one has not been invited to do so. We have waited in vain for someone to involve us, which is why we have, of course, made our own. That is what the situation is. I thought that we should share things now, and that is why I wrote to you yesterday that we could make a joint proposal for adoption. In the past, the parties had a major influence on the objectives of the working environment before 2011. The demands that were adopted every two years were very, very cautious, and that is why politicians said in March 2011 that it was, I think, time to tighten up a little and make demands on the three areas with the 20 per cent and 25 per cent improvements by 2020. Now that the 18 recommendations have been put forward, that the parties are again about to have an influence, how does the Social Democrat rapporteur feel about ensuring that it will not be small, cautious decisions that end up as it was before 2011 and that we really will have some change?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154721	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154722	In fact, I have great faith in the social partners. Now I also think that so many years have passed since 2011 and the time before that the recognition that must be everywhere, including among the social partners, must be that it cannot help if I can use the term fat game in this. If we really want a change, it is also necessary to have objectives that are appropriate. And what has been proposed in this is that the objectives to be achieved are not just those that have to be decided in here and that can stand as such a headline, but some that have to go out and be used directly, both in the industries and in the companies. And that is why the proposal that we should have greater proximity to those who need to use those objectives makes a great deal of sense to me. And, as I said, I am confident that the social partners will have a different approach now than they had then.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154816	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154817	Well, I have 30 years of experience that when the parties sit and negotiate, it may be a little too cautious and a little too small a demand that is being made. We saw this before 2011, and I guess that's why the Social Democracy itself helped to make the new demands. And surely we should not repeat these stupidities; we must say that there must be a combination of proximity and then a political direction of where we are going if we are to achieve some results, and not forget that we are actually not achieving the 2020 targets because it has come to a halt. We also saw it in the case of asbestos that it was also the parties that stalled and we had to help them get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154901	Well, I have a lot of faith that the parties can also reach some very good results with a little educational help from the politicians. I think that the result of the work of the Committee of Experts shows that, when they are put together and allowed to stay inside the room until white smoke comes up, the parties are also able to come up with solutions that point more forward than the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten here outlines.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154927	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154928	I noticed that Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen started by expressing his pleasure that we should now discuss the working environment. I actually have a question: it is a detail, but it is interesting to find out: what is the real reason for not wanting to include all the parties in the proposal for adoption, that is, if you think that the work environment is very important? We are right in front of a negotiating process. What is the need of the Social Democratic Party to set fences around a conciliation circle and not to take the opportunity to join us in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213154959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155000	In the social democracy we have no need to put fences around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155005	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155006	So I would ask the rapporteur to answer the second half of the question: why has the opportunity not been taken to invite the parties of the Folketing to a joint proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155015	Now it is the case that such a proposal for adoption comes from the Ministry and the Minister. And we think it's perfectly natural that it's that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155028	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155041	Thank you for that, President. I think it is good to have a debate on the working environment. This is an issue that we will be working on for some time to come, at least before an agreement is in place. It is not the case that you just sit down and then there is a new agreement on the working environment. When you look at the working environment that we have and the agreement that lies today, it is a little remarkable that when you have a meeting with the BAT Cartel, Building & Plant, they sit and say: We think that the OSH legislation is basically good enough. But it's not being used as it should. So we have to say: what are we, as legislators, having problems? Because we can legislate and legislate, but if it is not used as it should, then it does not help that we just put more and more upstairs. That's why this committee of experts was set up so we could see what's wrong with everything. We need to find out, because we need health and safety legislation that works and is being complied with. And that's what we're about to look at when we're going to make a new work environment reconciliation in this area, a new effort. There, of course, the committee has looked at a great many things within the working environment, and they have come up with many good proposals. If they're all the same, I'm not gonna be smart here. It may be that there are some people you like better than others. However, what is at stake here is that we must have a new agreement on working conditions in order to ensure that the tools provided will also be implemented and that we improve the working environment. Because, as has been said several times in previous debates, the working environment is crucial to the way in which the wear and tear in the workplace is worn out. That is why it is important that we have tools that both employers and employees can use and that they can live up to and that they are satisfactory so that it prevents too much wear and tear and too much influence from different substances. As has been mentioned, there have been efforts in various areas where we have been able to see that there are some things that have affected employees. And we also know that when we look at jobs, there is the question of whether you have the training that is good enough to control the working environment. And this applies to health and safety representatives, and it also applies to management representatives, i.e. they have the knowledge they need to meet what we demand. However, we must, of course, make sure that certain issues are given top priority. This is among other things. the psychic, which will be our top priority in what we are about to talk about, at least by the Danish People's Party. But we still have a lot of wear and tear that is not good enough. And that is why, of course, work to combat wear and tear will also be one of the areas where we will have to look a lot at how we can then improve everything. However, in the Danish People's Party we will look forward to starting negotiations on a new work environment for the benefit of both employees and employers and Danish society, so that we can do what we can to improve conditions in the workplace. One of the main issues, however, as I said, is that we can have an agreement where we are sure that both employees and employers will comply with it. It is not enough for us to think that we have made legislation that is good enough if it is the case that we are told that no one is complying with it in the workplace. Then it's like throwing water on a goose; then it doesn't help anything. So we will have a great task here to ensure that we get an agreement knitted together that can work in the way that it has always been intended, in other words precisely to improve the working environment and reduce the damage and also to improve the psychological working environment. So it is a great task that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155531	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155536	I am a little curious, and I can see that next week we are going to have to take a position on some proposals for changes to the Finance Act, and it seems that the Danish People's Party has helped to ensure that there will be an extra 13 million. kr. to the Labour Inspectorate. I think that is commendable. But as Mr. Bent Bøgsted has said in the past, we must at least ensure that there will be no deterioration next year, because there will be a somewhat larger figure to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate can continue to operate unchanged. kr. I mean, it's not supposed to be? And what is the reason why we failed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155618	What this is about is the basic allocation. There's, if I remember correctly, a pool that's expired, and that's probably it, sir. Christian Juhl is referring to. But the 13 million. kr. plus the 2 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is what was in the basic budget which was intended to be cut but which we have ensured will not be cut away. That then maybe there is a pool that expires and that thus there is some money that disappears is then another matter. But what is involved is that once we have reached an agreement on the working environment I believe that Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen also mentioned this, so we need to find a level on which the Labour Inspectorate's appropriations should lie, and we must then have agreed that in the circle that concludes the agreement on the working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155703	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155704	Now I refuse to believe that it's sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, who has said that there must be no more than 13 million. kr. in the box next year. I don't believe that. But we can solve that. I think this is a little important, because if you are going to drive unchanged compared to 2018, at least 25 million will have to be added. kr. in the Labour Inspectorate next year, and we have to try to help find them. I do not know when to find them, but I suppose we should also have found an appropriate level, and I think that we should start from those organisations that understand it, namely the LO, the FTF and all the others who have spoken. They say that there is a need for a proper revaluation of approx. 100 million kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155745	Well, you have to be careful not to lock yourself to a number, and I do not think I said that Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen had said that 13 million. kr. Enough. I don't think I've said that at any time. I told you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen talked about finding a fixed level of basic funding for the Labour Inspectorate, and it has nothing to do with these 13 million. kr. to do. When you look at the numbers that swarm around, you should also be careful not to give a number and say: we have to give this to the Factory Inspectorate. If it becomes a lower figure and you do not get what you want, then you are actually standing as someone who has not received what you have promised on the outside. You have to be careful what you say in this regard. But we are going to the negotiations to find a fixed level.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155828	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155829	We can discuss whether it is the 13 million. kr. or the 13+2 or whether it is 25 million. kr. missing. But what are the ambitions of the Danish People's Party? Is that just the status quo? Is the work of the Labour Inspectorate not so serious that the status quo is far from good enough? Whether you have the status quo or not... what I can't really understand you have with that amount, but there we are down in a detail... is the status quo at the Danish Labour Inspectorate so good enough for the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155858-2	I think we can find more places where I have said that the level should be higher than today, without anyone having to start putting a fixed amount on it. However, I have not said that we are going into the negotiations in order to have the status quo in the basic allocation. I have said that it must be higher than it is today, but without wishing to lock on to how much the amount should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155924	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155925	Can we not get a little closer if we agree that the status quo is from a much lower starting point than it was 18 years ago? On average, the Labour Inspectorate has cut it up and down by 6 million. kr. a year over all the years, that is, every year, Mr. Bent Bøgsted didn't give a hint about what the grant should be on? Now the LO and others have played out that they think it's probably 100 million. kr. needed. But where is the Danish People's Party like this in all lengths of clogs?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213155955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160000	Sir. Karsten Hønge has been so long in the Folketing that he should know that if you throw a number out of the platform and it doesn't hold, Mr. Karsten Hønge stand here in a year or so and say to me when I stand here on the platform: sir. Bent Bøgsted promised that it would be 75 million or 100 million. kr. You in the Danish People's Party have not got what you wanted. We will not be in that situation. You have to be careful not to put a lump sum on it. I have just said that the level must be higher than it is today, but where it should lie depends on what the agreement will sound like and what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160042	Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160047	Now I know that this is not about the future, but I do think that this discussion says something about what happened in the room surrounding the Finance Act. And I'd like to ask Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, if he is satisfied with the result achieved by the Danish People's Party with the 13 million. kr., and if not, sir. Bent Bøgsted had a higher level of ambition compared to what the Danish Labour Inspectorate should have had from funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160115	Well, as I have understood it all and the calculations I have received, the amounts that have come will ensure that the basic allocation will not be cut compared to 2018, which means that we will also build a bridge to the negotiations that will take place in 2019 on where the basic allocation will lie. There have been some higher amounts and there have been pools that have expired, but these are not the ones we are talking about; that is the basic amount. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160139	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160147	Thank you. The Left believes that the working environment and, above all, a healthy and safe working environment is an incredibly important agenda. Thank you to Enhedslisten and SF for putting it to debate today in the Chamber, because we have to take care of the approx. 2.7 million people pulling shoes every day and leaving for work. We owe it to them to ensure a healthy and safe working environment, first and foremost because walking to work does not make you sick and because a good working environment creates joy and well-functioning employees. It's healthy. This is common sense from a human perspective, and it is common sense from an economic perspective. Unfortunately, we have to admit that work on health and safety is going the wrong way. That's worrying. In particular, it goes the wrong way as far as the psychological working environment is concerned. For the Left, it is absolutely essential that we reverse developments, I would like to emphasise that. Therefore, the government took the initiative to set up a committee of experts responsible for making recommendations so that in future we can put together a better health and safety effort. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee of Experts for their excellent work. The committee has had the task of rethinking all the work, and we must take it with us to the forthcoming political negotiations. Now it's about following up on the recommendations. That is the ambition of the Left. We think that the committee has come around very well. There are a number of recommendations about how we define the objectives of the work environment; how we work with a strengthened regulatory effort so that the Factory Inspectorate comes to visit more where there are problems; it is about greater focus on guidance and dialogue when the Factory Inspectorate comes to visit, as well as a focused production of both research and dissemination in the field. In parallel with the work of the Committee of Experts, a large number of initiatives have been taken, as the Minister has also mentioned: strengthened efforts in agriculture, a new method of supervision in construction, and an agreement on the working environment of firefighters. Now it is a question of translating these recommendations into concrete policy, which is why I am very much looking forward to the forthcoming negotiations. I support the proposal for adoption, which has been read out by the Social Democrat rapporteur, and I welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the proposal for adoption today by the Social Democrat rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160441	There are some brief comments. It's first, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160445	In the middle of the summer, when we waited eagerly for the 18 recommendations, or how many it could become, what we didn't know at that time, the NFA handed in the result of a study in which they had asked employers how they worked with the basics • Do you have a working environment organisation? Are they being trained? Do you have an APV, that is, a workplace assessment? Are you holding annual meetings? And they were almost habitual criminals, if I can use that expression, because there was as much as 50 percent. the employers who did not follow the basics of the Working Conditions Act in their workplaces, which is the basis for preventive work. That is what we say there is the most important thing: what is happening in the workplace. What does Mr. Hans Andersen said that, since it is the employers who have answered the questions, they themselves submit themselves and it is probably the best of the employers who have replied, would I believe that the answers are so grotesquely bad for both small, medium and large jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160551	I certainly believe that there is a task to be done here, and I also look forward to the discussion of it in the forthcoming negotiations on better health and safety at work. I believe that part of the solution to getting a better working environment is to take responsibility at the local workplace, and it is also about employers taking responsibility for themselves, putting the working environment on the agenda and, of course, complying with the legislation in force at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160623	Sir. Christian Juhl would still like to make a comment on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160627	He'd really like that. Now Mr. Hans Andersen, that it is the employers who have to take care of it, and I fully agree with that, but a health and safety representative cannot do it alone. I believe that any workplace that does good preventive work does so because they have chosen a number of health and safety representatives and have taken care to train them. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Hans Andersen, whether he thinks it is enough to have 1.5 days of annual training for a health and safety representative, even though the person is a really good 3F or a blacksmith, if this person as a health and safety representative is put to have an overview of accident risks, of chemistry, of ergonomics, of mental health and safety at work, of all the new technology entering the workplace, with all that this entails by influences.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160717	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160720	This is certainly a good subject which I think we should discuss in the forthcoming negotiations, in other words how we improve the work on health and safety. That's a good subject. It would not be serious if I were to stand here today and comment in detail on it and say whether I think that a comma and then another number is exactly what it takes to get the job done with the working environment that we all want to improve. But this is certainly an issue that we are going to have to deal with in the forthcoming negotiations, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160757	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160801	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur what I asked the Minister about in relation to the report of the Committee of Experts and the 18 proposals they have made. What importance does the rapporteur attach to the recommendations made by the Committee of Experts and the social partners in addition, i.e. the 18 plus the 2? What importance does the rapporteur attach to them in the forthcoming negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160837	I think that the recommendations made by the Committee of Experts are a very good basis for taking a political debate. Because I am absolutely convinced that the social partners must be part of the solution here, and when the social partners have been involved in work over a long period of time, they have also agreed to say that this can certainly be part of the solution. Then I have also noted that there are further requests from the social partners, and there is something that I think we should discuss in the negotiations, how far we should go, among other things. when it comes to economics.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160922	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160929	Sir. In his rapporteur's speech Hans Andersen mentioned the challenges of the psychological working environment. Could we get the hints in which direction it is the Left then sees the solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213160941	There is, of course, a recommendation 11. It says: "The rules for the mental health and safety at work must be written into a notice so that it becomes clearer what is applicable to the prevention of risks in the mental health and safety environment. It may, I think, be a good basis for a discussion. I think it makes sense, just to outline a direction on our part, in terms of how we deal with this. But it can't stand alone, I understand that. But it's a direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161021	With that, we thank Mr. Hans Andersen. The next in line is Mrs Christina Egelund of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161035	As an expert in the working environment and the tasks of the Factory Inspectorate I shall do my best. However, I know that there is a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament that we should have a good working environment in Denmark. That is why it is important to rethink all the time so that it follows developments in the labour market, and that is why we look forward to the political negotiations on the basis of the recommendations of the Committee of Experts. Because there are certainly things that can be done better. However, it should be noted that in studies we are among the countries with the very best self-esteemed working environment. I think there is good reason to look at the efforts being made today. Our impression is that some resources are being used in areas where the problems are not greatest, for example. In other words, it is not here that the most serious occupational injuries are found. It is therefore a good thing that progress has been made towards making efforts more risk-based. If it were for the Liberal Alliance, a very large part of the effort should be focused on where the worst damage occurs. In the debate, there is an ever-increasing focus on the psychological working environment, and this is, of course, also important. But I think there is reason to think about whether there is such a link between a good working environment in which everyone is happy and that this necessarily means that busyness does not belong in a workplace or that conflicts do not belong in a workplace. I think it is important not to confuse these concepts. Because busyness can be natural in a workplace, and conflicts can also be natural in a workplace. This is a basic condition at times in some jobs, and it cannot be abolished. But, of course, you have to be aware of employees, such as: show signs of stress or depression, or that other consequences of busyness or conflict arise. It is in the interests of both companies and employees that we have a better working environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161259	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There was a request for a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl on the fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161305	Yes, with such a brief speech from the rapporteur, one must be quick.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161308	Short and precise, sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161310	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur points out some important things about the psychological working environment, and that is also why more and more people agree that we should not call it the psychological working environment. Because then it's like it's happening inside the head of the individual. It was much better to call it the organizational and social working environment, as has been done in the announcement in Sweden, where you have had a great deal of success in getting ahead of the problems: the organizational, because the way you organize your workplace as an employer is very crucial to whether people are thriving and whether you can give it an extra shell without getting burned out, but just get ordinary tired, and the social, because it is extremely important how we are to each other at a busy workplace. The more busy you are, the more important it is that you consider each other, talk to each other properly, help each other and make it run. Therefore, these are two good concepts, which I hope we can get into the new notice, and also a tightening up of the Factory Inspectorate's ability to interfere. I want to know if the Liberal Alliance agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161413	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161414	We are, of course, not so concerned about what things are called, but more about what you do to them in places where you identify a problem. However, it is absolutely impossible to disagree with the substantive view of the questioner, namely that, although one is busy or perhaps especially when there is a hurry and although there are conflicts in a workplace, there is reason to be aware, as a good colleague and as a good leader, of whether everyone is thriving in the hurry that is, and is aware of whether everyone is basically well. So in substance, I agree. I have no opinion as to whether you call things one or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161453	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161455	However, it is important that we find some concepts that can be used operationally in a workplace and understand what this is about when you see how many people have increasing problems in the workplace. And there are 25 000 per day who are on sick leave at work. A great many resources are being wasted, so I think we should do something about this. There I would like to hear: what does the Liberal Alliance think about upgrading the opportunities for the health and safety representative and the manager responsible for the working environment, for • or, in my opinion, also the obligation to take some more training? Because I believe that education is a shortcut to a qualitatively better preventive work than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161540	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161543	If it is to be understood as such a general law or a general duty that is spread across all jobs, I do not necessarily agree. One of the points of my speech and it is true that it was a little short was that I like having an approach where you are more specific, that is, where you have a risk-based approach to improving the working environment. Well, then, sir. Christian Juhl insists that it is important what you call things. I'm more concerned with what you do with the problems there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161617	With that we thank Mrs Christina Egelund, and then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213161630	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I should like to point out that I am speaking on behalf of Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. The working environment in Denmark, compared with many other countries, is probably some of the best in the world. Over time, we have managed to ensure a high standard of working conditions for the benefit of people's welfare. But we have no reason to rest on our laurels. We hear almost daily about employees who report sick because of stress, anxiety and depression, not to mention other forms of mental and physical harm. This is untenable and shows that we have not achieved our goal. That is why, in the alternative, we have been waiting for the Committee of Experts to clarify the environmental performance of the Danish labour market with a certain amount of excitement. And let me be clear: the report's conclusions on the work on health and safety do not come as the big surprise to us. On the contrary, it confirms the opinion of many of us. The whole background to the study by the Committee of Experts is, of course, due to the fact that after many years of progress the work on the working environment is steady. In fact, in recent years there has been a decline in OSH efforts in some areas. To illustrate the decline in the working environment, I would like to highlight the proportion of employees who report that they are exposed to mental stress at work, such as time pressure, bullying or violence, while experiencing symptoms of stress or depression. As already mentioned, this proportion has increased by approx. 17% From 2012 to 2016. This is a worrying decline, but unfortunately not the only one. During the same period there was an increase of approx. 15% in the proportion of employees who report that they are exposed to physical stress in their work and who experience post-work pain and fatigue. One of the sectors particularly at risk is construction, where employees have more than twice as high a risk of serious injury compared to others in the labour market. This worrying development in the work environment calls for action. We are therefore pleased that the Committee of Experts has made a number of recommendations. Because we must and must reverse the trend. We owe that to the barely 2.8 million people who go to work every day. Employers need to focus more than today on more than just black figures on the bottom line. The environment and the employees must also be given equal attention. There is no doubt that the vast majority of jobs want good conditions for their employees. As legislators, therefore, we must ensure the best framework for jobs to develop the work environment. That is why we fully endorse the Committee of Experts' overall view that the working environment must be closer to jobs and that the government and the social partners agree jointly on priority national targets for health and safety at work. In the alternative, we believe that one of the areas of action in the work environment is for a number of years to reduce working time to 30 hours per week. In this way, we ensure a better balance between work, family and leisure life. We do not claim that a shorter working week solves all problems, let alone the physical harm suffered by many employees, but it is a step in the right direction. Another proposal, which I would like to highlight here and which is in line with the recommendations of the group of experts, is to significantly strengthen the Factory Inspectorate. The Factory Inspectorate must guide and engage in dialogue with the individual workplace to solve problems with the work environment, but of course they must also be the supervisory authority. It requires resources that we want to help find. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in the alternative, we will follow this area closely. We have for a long time tried unsuccessfully to get into a working environment compromise, as we would like to negotiate constructively on the Danish working environment. That is why we would like to sign here today that the Minister has chosen to open the negotiations to all of us. Thank you. Of course, we support the proposal for adoption which we ourselves are involved in presenting, and we will look forward to the Minister's initiatives in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162139	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162148	This is a perfect time for a debate on the working environment. It comes right after the Minister opened negotiations, and our question was so announced before the negotiations. But I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I think it is good style to have opened up, and the SF welcomes the opportunity to enter into negotiations on the future working environment. However, the background to the debate is unfortunately depressing. The study by the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work states that the number of people who suffer physical or psychological damage through stress is growing strongly and that efforts for a better working environment are not working. In the case of physical overload, it can be seen that it has increased by 15%, and in the case of mental injuries it is 17%. In short, it goes back the wrong way, which is exactly the opposite of the objective, which is that there should be an improvement of 20%. by 2020. One in nine gets physical damage, and one in six gets psychological damage. Now we have the recommendations of the Committee of Experts, and there is enough work to be done. The 18 plus 2 proposals from the Committee of Experts will be a step towards a safe and healthy working environment. Today, the bad working environment means both insecurity and insecurity among thousands of workers. The work of the Committee of Experts cannot then be left alone, even if, in society, it is a good business to invest in a better working environment. We must show the will to make some new decisions, we must be able to say to all workers in the country: yes, we have seen you and we will not tolerate people being grindn to pieces in the country's jobs. Then there is also the prospect of many more years on the labour market. An 18-year-old should expect to work today until he is approx. 74 years. A poor working environment and a late retirement age are an attempt to mix oil with water. An effort for a better working environment is actually well spent, and regardless of how you can calculate it if it is the 50 billion. kr., or if it's 80 billion. kr. out and 2 kroner. home again in the long term. What is needed here and now is also more money for the Factory Inspectorate, and a very concrete action plan is needed so that we can raise the working environment in the workplace and give employers more instructions. Fixed, stable, high appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate are one of the prerequisites. The public sector should actually take the lead, but that is not the case. Anyone who knows a sosu assistant who works in a nursing home, a nurse in a hospital hall, a day care provider knows that there are too few employees to solve too many tasks. So we cannot cut resources at the same time and at the same time believe that we can improve the working environment. Requirements and resources must be accompanied if we want a better working environment. It is a question of reducing the heavy burdens on workers at construction sites and in industry, but it is also a question of the public itself being a machine that produces damage. One can imagine an employee alone on a late night shift who is helping a demented citizen to change diapers, while at the same time the alarm shows that another citizen is leaving the house, and then it is uncommonly difficult to exercise the patience to ensure that the demented person continues to take part in what is going on. But it is also fairly certain that if you become a little too firm in such a situation, you risk the citizen reacting violently. So in this way we have set up a number of our public jobs, so it helps both to produce physical damage and psychological damage through stress. A lot of people start the morning with besides breakfast eating painkillers. It is unfair, it is humiliating and it does not belong in a welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162631	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162634	Thank you. In other words, when you cut away all the superlatives, not many people may disagree with what the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party says here. What I would like to hear in relation to the debate that has been going on, among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I understand that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten has no particular confidence in the social partners in this context and does not have it either, in relation to whether the social partners will be able to be part of this when it comes to implementing it in due course. There I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about it. Firstly, what value does the rapporteur attach to the inclusion of the social partners in the recommendations, and secondly, whether he shares the same suspicion that the social partners could be part of the solution to achieving better health and safety at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162747	In fact, I did not hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur express the apparently extreme scepticism that Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen has heard. So now that I'm answering, it shouldn't be in contrast to the Enhedslisten, because I didn't actually hear it that way. So I would like to give the SF's answer here, namely that we think that the committee of experts here, by using the social partners, has come up with some very constructive kicks. My point in my rapporteur's speech was that they cannot stand alone. Because it's a good kick, but they can't stand alone, and we can't do without these fixed high appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate. And in carrying this out, I believe that the social partners will be absolutely essential for this to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162821	Well, then I think I'll be more specific. For what Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned has to be seen in terms of setting objectives as to what action should be taken to determine what objectives should be in each area. And when I stood on the platform, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur clearly set out to say, 'Well, we can't trust that the parties will certainly not be able to come up with goals that really move anything.' How does the SF's rapporteur view this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162850	In other words, it is true that in most discussions about working conditions or improving conditions in the workplace, employers are mostly a driving anchor that we are sailing with. They often look at the right back pocket before looking at what is good for society. But that does not change the fact that my conclusion is that we will not improve the working environment without good, constructive cooperation with employers and trade unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162915	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213162921	I think that the recommendations of the Committee of Experts are a very good starting point for the forthcoming negotiations, but I am actually a little saddened when I hear the rapporteur say that the employers' approach to this is in principle about how much money you can keep in the box, and then you really don't care about the employees. In fact, I do not think that is the starting point for employers in Denmark. You know that a good working environment is actually also good for the bottom line, it is good for the individual, it is good for society. Perhaps I think that the approach of the Socialist People's Party to this is a little too concrete, that is, that it is all the employers' fault.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163016	Now I think that Mr. Hans Andersen did what we in here might call a journalistic tightening on what I said. I didn't say that employers were just thinking about the economy, I didn't actually say that. I just said that they tend to look more at their right back pocket than at the overall economy, and that is true, I think. We can then see every day that there are employers who often pass over where the burden is lowest. We simply need to have very firm legislation and the prospect of firm consequences if we do not comply with it. But that does not change the fact that employers' organisations are playing progressively, especially in many contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163050	It may be that Mr. Hans Andersen would like to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163054	Thank you. A number of recommendations have been made by the Committee of Experts, and one of the recommendations is that the social partners should be more involved in setting targets. There I think it is perhaps important that, as in the approach to it, we have a perception that the social partners can actually help to move and improve the working environment. So one side represents employers and business owners. I just think it was a little boring if it is the approach of the Socialist People's Party that the working environment can only be improved in spite of the efforts of companies and company owners. I think that's a rather boring approach to this, because it's both parties that have to lift this with us, but it's out at work, it can be lifted the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163156	Yes, yes, but I really don't think we're going after that, sir. Hans Andersen is now saying that there is such a terrible difference of opinion. This can only be lifted if we have cooperation between both trade unions and employers. But that does not change my experience of moving the working environment, it also means, on the one hand, that there must be strong trade unions that demand it and, on the other hand, that we have a political majority in here, which is actually also pushing employers to do so. Because I think it is just a trick too naively to think that because it is such that you can just appeal to the great inner social being of employers that it is good for society and good for the employees, they do so. It's not our experience. It is that they must be pushed and pushed and pulled to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163232	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. In fact, it is the Minister for Employment who is next on this list. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163241	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate, which well illustrates very well that we are now entering into the negotiations which should lead to a broad political agreement on the future working environment in Denmark. Thank you for the many comments that have been made in relation to the process which, I hope, will now form the basis for a good and not least long-term political agreement. There have been many exciting things in this debate, including an economy that does not quite hold water. Let me just put it this way: at least it cannot be misunderstood: the total appropriation of 433.4 million from the Labour Inspectorate. kr. in 2018, if the Finance Act is passed next week, it will also be 433,4 million. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And then down in its belly there is a priority in relation to the effort to ensure orderly conditions. A reinforced effort then means that in 2019 with the Finance Act agreement, there will be an increase of approx. 7 million kr. It also follows up very well on the broad adoption that took place a few weeks ago, perhaps almost a month ago when we discussed the Padborg case, where a unanimous Parliament actually said that the government was called upon to ensure enhanced action. I choose to be optimistic. I think there is a possibility that we can make a new and improved work environment in Denmark for the benefit of both employees and companies. In fact, I also think that Mr. Hans Andersen had a good point before, when he was in a well-preferably major intellectual debate with Mr. Karsten Hønge. In other words, it is the case that companies are not interested in their employees feeling ill. That's what I agree with, sir. Hans Andersen in. It is also common sense to invest in ensuring a good working environment, both in relation to something that companies understand, namely productivity, but also in relation to the fact that you are dependent on your employees actually wanting to be on your company. So with this, we will return, in a stronger form, to the political discussions, which would like to mean a political agreement before we meet the electorate. My hope is that we can reach a political agreement before there is a parliamentary election, but for good reason I am not the one who issues a parliamentary election, so there is no way of knowing whether that will happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163532	We are not going to get any closer here today, even on the part of the Minister for Employment. But there are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. The last person to speak on this matter is Mr. Christian Juhl, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163556	I would like to thank you for the debate. It has developed more positively than I expected. I also think that there are some indications that we can find significant improvements or, as the Minister said, when we were discussing the Committee of Experts: we may have to fundamentally change some of the things in the way work on health and safety works works works. It is almost entirely revolutionary to say fundamental changes, but we know what this is all about. It is a question of the system we have to work. This is primarily an organisation, and it is the organisation of working conditions at the workplace. Fortunately, it is backed up, I would say to Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, by the trade unions, and the unions make a great and necessary effort and have decided to equip next year to support their health and safety representatives even more. I am now of the opinion that there should also be some political governance in the area of health and safety in particular. It should not be confined to negotiating between two parties. I think we agree that the situation is unsatisfactory. It seems that we agree that something needs to be done and that it should be more than just adjusting a few commas. And then I would like to repeat what the Minister has said in virtually every consultation we have had two or three pieces during the year. I remember that at first we were some who mentioned it to him, and then he said that he might as well take over that, because it is the basics of working conditions, namely that it must be possible to go to work without causing damage to health. I think that is a good starting point for any debate. And the second thing I've heard innumerable times is, and that's enough for the debate that was between Mr. Hans Andersen and Mr. Karsten Hønge states that the Working Environment Act states that the employer has the main responsibility for ensuring that the working environment is fully safe from health and safety. It is a sentence that has been there since 1976 and that is a sentence which is of course important. And employers cherish that sentence, because if we were to share responsibility, we should also share management rights, and that is not so interesting for employers at this stage. That is why they have been given the special duty, and that is why the Working Conditions Act is a worker protection law, as it was originally called, in other words, a protection of workers at the workplace when they offer their labour to an employer to ensure that they can get home whole. I dream myself that once you get jobs where you are actually in a better physical and mental state in the afternoon when you whistle home than you are when you start work in the morning. That must be what must be the ideal for our efforts, so that we are both well laid out, can do the best, but can also live while we are at work. I think we are going to touch on all the points that the Alternative, the SF and we have pointed out in our proposal for adoption, and I would certainly call on the other parties to consider whether they should not take to support it, because this is the path that the Minister actually indicated himself at the sitting that we had to go against. And then I would urge that, as we say in South Jutland, we come up for negotiations with a good mood and clean straw in East Germany. Then we will get a proper step forward for the working environment in Denmark. That is why I would also like to thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163934	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would like to point out again that the vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday 18 December 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213163953	We are opening the debate, and that is what the Minister for Industry is calling for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213164013	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, in which the Socialists are calling on the government to call for negotiations to strengthen the supervision and increase the protection against financial crime. As the authors of the motion know, the government has already initiated such negotiations and the first meeting was held in the Ministry of Industry in November, and therefore it is not quite clear to us why the resolution should be needed. I have several times, among other things. at the negotiating meeting that we had on 6 November, informed that we have initiated a process to lead to the strengthening of the FSA. It is the government's aim that the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority should be at the top of Europe and that we should have a strong and clean financial sector. There are quite a few cases that the government has spent more time and effort on lately, and there are also few cases that the government will spend more on after New Year when negotiations continue. The FSA has been asked to explain what the supervision has learned from the course with Danske Bank, and on this basis come up with suggestions on how to strengthen supervision in relation to intervention possibilities, sanctioning powers, data access, legal basis and what else the FSA might have from proposals. The FSA's statement is expected to be completed by early 2019 and will form part of the basis for the ongoing negotiations. But that will not be the only basis. We are working on a great deal of preparatory work for the negotiations, in which a large number of issues are analysed and, as I have said several times to the parties of the Danish Parliament, we are very welcome to invite in. If you have specific issues that you need to analyse or will bring up in the negotiations, it is just about saying so, then we will do a preparatory work, including on the points that the parties might want. There are several parties that have already made proposals for strengthening supervision, and that is very welcome, and we must at last continue to do so so, so that we can turn all the proposals that might exist into how we can have stronger supervision. In addition, I would like to mention that in the framework of the agreement on the Financial Act for 2019, additional resources have been added to both the Bagmand police and the tax authorities, and I would also like to mention that we are thereby strengthening the fight against financial crime and money laundering specifically. It is also clear from the motion for a resolution that the Social Democratic Party wishes to examine whether the FSA should be divided into two separate organisations. As I said, we accept all the proposals, including this. Without wishing to pour it completely down the board, however, I would like to say straight away that I do not think that this proposal is a good idea. The idea of a possible fragmentation of financial supervision is not a new idea. This is an issue that was raised in 2010 under the former government of VK, which set up a committee on the structure of financial supervision in Denmark. In 2012, on the basis of the thorough committee work, the then Social Democratic led government decided not to continue working in that direction. At that time, Mr Ole Sohn, Minister for Business and Growth, and I quote: 'In the wake of the change of government, the government has looked at the question of the organisation of supervision. The assessment is that it is not possible to find a suitable alternative organisation, which at the same time ensures that the government has sufficient insight and knowledge about financial matters. • In 2013, the discussions on the organisation of financial supervision were finally concluded with a broad political agreement on a banking package VI. Here it was agreed between the then SRSF government and the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party to establish a board to strengthen the FSA. It's just to bring a little history. However, as I said, we can of course still discuss in the course of the negotiations which are under way and which will be seriously intensified at some point after New Year when we have the FSA's statement and there we can easily discuss further proposals for organisation. As I have said, the conclusion is that we have already started negotiations on further measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime, which include: we have planned to intensify the negotiations, and this will be a very intensive process and also a well-prepared process, which I look forward to very much and which I have great expectations of. That is why we in the government do not believe that there is a basis for the resolution. We could almost vote in favour of it, because what it says is actually something that we have already done and then we would not have to do anything, but the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213164611	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213164618	If the Minister reads the motion for a resolution, it is about something other than the FSA, and that is exactly the point. For the reality is that the scandals we have seen in the financial sector just lately and, by the way, when it comes to financial crime... huge fraud cases, which you never imagined you would see... show that there is a need to think together the efforts of the authorities, both when it comes to the efforts of the tax authorities, not least when it comes to SØIK's efforts, i.e. the efforts of the Bagmandspolice, but also when it comes to the work of the FSA. So that's what's indicted. I myself attended the meeting mentioned by the Minister for Business and Industry, and that comes as no surprise. But what surprises me is that we can see in the daily press that we have to wait with these negotiations. So it can be said that there is a good reason for this. However, the Minister of Justice announces that it may also be relevant to look at a reform of SØIK. This should then be waited until autumn 2019 at best, and the tax authorities are working on another big rescue plan, where you could discuss whether there should be a slightly stronger focus on the exact fight against financial crime. Our proposal is to sit around the table with all three ministries and try to see if we can have a much stronger coordination of efforts. Is that what the government is rejecting by rejecting this proposal as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213164740	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213164742	Of course, we will also involve the Bagmand police in the negotiations we are going to have. Because of course I coordinate with both the Minister of Taxation and the Minister of Justice, and we are doing a lot of preparatory work in order to analyse all the possibilities that we see and that others see, to incorporate as many ideas and views as possible, in terms of what we can do together. I can't say now, and that's because we're in the preparatory phase of what's going to be put up by the government. That is why we have asked for time to prepare the negotiations and that is why we have not started yet. But, of course, we look all the way around, including in relation to the other authorities involved in the fight against financial crime. And that, of course, includes the Bagman Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213164831	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213164834	I am asking a little bit of experience because when we made the latest money laundering agreement, there were points about police action. It is true that there are points about the tasks of the Bagmand police, for example. But the reality is that if you read what it says, and if you remember the negotiations, the government was rejecting the fact that it was something that had to be brought money for now. It had to wait for future negotiations on a multi-annual agreement. That is why I just want to know whether the government is prepared for the negotiations that are now being held to be negotiations that will be about the cooperation of all three authorities on this, and that decisions will be taken to improve cooperation and that we can see it in a context. That's what we're asking. The second question I have is whether the Minister will confirm that with regard to the 30 men who are then transferred to SØIK, that is to say to the Bagmand police, the resources to find them will not be new money to the police. It is money that must be found within the framework that the police and prosecutors already have today. There must therefore be savings in one place for that money to be added to another.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213164946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213164949	I can confirm that we are going to look all the way around the setup that is to fight financial crime such as money laundering. And it's clear that you can't just look at the FSA. That is why I also said before that it is not limited to talking only about how we reorganise the FSA, for example. A great many things are at stake, and it is clear that the Ministry of Justice and the Bagman police are, of course, part of it. That is not to say that such a great debate of all the police resources or the whole Bagmand police setup has been set up. However, it is clear that it needs to be involved if we are to have a proper, coherent approach to the fight against financial crime. And in relation to resources within the Bagmand police, I can at least confirm that those resources go extra to fight money laundering.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165048	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165052	Thank you very much. I would like to start by congratulating the Minister, because I think that there has been a rather sharp reaction in recent months to the things that we have experienced, and I think many have seen a marked change in style compared to the former Minister of Business, who had a rather strange approach to the financial sector. So thank you for that. Of course, it will be important to see whether the words are also followed by real action when these negotiations are to be carried out, and we, too, of course, would very much like to submit proposals on behalf of the Enhedslisten before the negotiations begin. But I would like to ask: do you operate, for example? with punishments in relation to the penal code? Because you have increased the fines, and that is very good, but the problem is that such fines are typically wiped off on the bank's owners or shareholders. After all, this is not a burden on the individual responsible who can waltz out of the room with a golden handshake, as we have seen. In the criminal code article on the disinformation of public authorities, there is a four-month prison sentence. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. In Danske Bank's case, doesn't Danske Bank misinform a case that could ultimately threaten financial stability in Denmark, shouldn't we have a different penal framework when it comes to this kind of subversive crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165217	I am not at all opposed to that. This is another issue that will be touched on in the negotiations, because it is clear that this is important. It is a key issue throughout Danske Bank that the FSA appears to have been given highly misleading information along the way, which seems to have played a quite important role in the fact that the FSA has not intervened against the money laundering that has taken place in Danske Bank, and this is a major problem. It is clear that this is one of the things that we will, of course, involve in the negotiations. So that's a really good example of how this isn't just about the FSA. It will also be about all the other things that are necessary to have a strong setup in order to combat economic and financial crime. Thanks for the rose, by the way. I am happy to have it, and I also think that Enhedslisten has acted constructively throughout this process. I think this has been the case widely in the Danish Parliament, and I hope that we can continue to do so, because we have only one agenda here in the Danish Parliament, and that is to prevent such a case that has taken place at Danske Bank from ever arising again, and to ensure that it is fully investigated and that the consequences are drawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165337	I'll give it to you, sir. Pelle Dragsted an opportunity to thank for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165341	Then I also thank you for the rose the other way. And, quite apart from that, I just want to make sure that all the parties of the Folketing are invited to the negotiations held after New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165355	Unfortunately, I have to say that, as a starting point, it will be the financial conciliation circle which, unfortunately, Enhedslisten is not part of. On the other hand, I have also said to the Enhedslisten that I would very much like to meet with Enhedslisten and discuss any proposals that Enhedslisten may have, because I am not closing off proposals because you are not in the financial conciliation circle. Thus Enhedslisten is very welcome to come up with ideas as well. We would also like to examine them in depth and put in place the analysis apparatus we have in order to examine the good ideas that Enhedslisten may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165433	With that, we thank the Minister. Then we will deal with the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213165442	I would therefore like, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, to acknowledge the opportunity to discuss and debate the whole premise of the situation in which Denmark is also in a purely legislative situation in relation to the many scandals that unfortunately face us all as a challenge. Whitewash for 1,500 billion. kr., dividend tax fraud for 410 billion. kr. in Europe, large amounts of millions in exchange fraud, etc. Many Danish financial institutions are involved, others are fortunately not. However, it does bear witness to the fact that the discussion is, of course, very timely and also very important. We need to have some discussions about this, because I think the financial sector as such is interested in that. We are of course interested in ensuring a lasting confidence in the Danish financial sector, which is also dependent on a great many foreign players who invest in Denmark and in Danish companies and who also place their surplus capital in Denmark. So we have a great need to clarify that. We can also say that, as far as the Danish People's Party is concerned, we are at least satisfied that we have a large number of different studies in progress. We have European banking supervision that looks at some of the issues. We have investigations into the accountant's responsibility. We have the FSA's investigation, which has been reopened and established, and we have, in particular, the investigations of the Bagmandspolice, SØIK, which are also ongoing. Of course, all these initiatives have been set in motion precisely to provide an overview and clarity of what the status has been and what actions we, as politicians and as supervisors, have the opportunity to launch in order to ensure that the legislation available is the right and most comprehensive. In the Danish People's Party we do not reject increased supervision, increased control, increased audit requirements. Nor do we reject increased sanctions and increased fines and management requirements. These are many of the things that we already have in the money laundering agreement that was concluded back in September of this year and which is not yet fully implemented, but which of course will be. All these words are merely to say that we are in agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution that this is a very important and fundamental matter which requires absolutely full attention. However, when I think that the authors of the motion for a resolution may be slightly overwhelmed, when we look at what they are actually formally described in their motion for a resolution, where they have such a political desire to signal power of action and an overview, and that the Social Democratic Party has everything under control and so on. The proposal itself, I would say to Mr. Morten Bødskov is on three and a half lines. That is what you can come up with when you describe what you really want. And if you look at the Social Democrats' comments on their own proposal, you see impressive 131⁄2 lines, which are the comments that have to describe why this proposal is important. It could be said that it was relatively quickly read. It was relatively fast and uncomplicated, but of course it does not change the intention that it is good, but I also think that there is such a little bit of self- fatness about it, compared to the fact that you like to appear a little better than all the other political parties in discussing the agenda that is about integrity in the Danish financial sector. Perhaps I do not think that the Social Democrats are much better than all sorts of others in that the Social Democrats, and indeed Mr. Morten Bødskov himself has been sitting on the responsible ministerial taboos for a large part of the period during which these things have been going on. However, as I have said to the press before the debate, the Social Democratic Party has put forward a proposal which is the most natural of all. You try to kick in an open door, and the Danish People's Party will certainly not be the party that closes the door again. So, of course, we can support the proposal, and we also think that we would like to sign that the Minister for Industry has already invited us to the first meetings. After all, we had meetings some 14 days ago, I think, where we established the first one in relation to the further process that has to take place after we made the first money laundering deal back in September. So we support the proposal, but we also believe that the proposal does not contain anything profoundly revolutionary new in relation to the agenda that we all have, namely that the aim is to create better conditions for both supervision, control, audit and security of investors' money and so on. So that's the way it has to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170007	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Bødskov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170010	Although the comments on the proposal are only 131⁄2 lines, we are glad that the Danish People's Party supports it and will of course thank you for it. Then we would also like to stress what is at the heart of the matter, namely that the negotiations that we will then have to start should come all the way around so that we can have the authorities responsible for this around the table. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby and I visited the police force yesterday, and it was heard from representatives of the police behind him that in some areas there was a dialogue with what was previously called SKAT on the legal basis for exchanging information. I was certainly surprised, and I would therefore like to know whether this is not just another argument that we should not see the negotiations separately, i.e. the FSA, the SKAT and the bailiff police, but that we see it all together when we start the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170117	At any rate, the Danish People's Party does not object to the fact that it will be a joint debate, I must say, because we heard at the meeting we had yesterday with the bailiff police that it was informed that the payment patterns that are international are very diverse and that new payment services are constantly being introduced, for example on apps, and you can see that Google Pay is growing exorbitantly compared to the transactions that are above national borders. We also had the issue of PayPal and all sorts of other payment services, which Enhedslisten's rapporteur very wisely put forward. So it is quite appropriate for us to take in all the tools that can be taken advantage of when it comes to coming after the companies and criminals who have a criminal activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170213	Then it's mr. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170215	I must say that I am very pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party stresses the importance of seeing the negotiations together. For some of the things that also came out at yesterday's meeting of the brigand police were that there really is being added, by the way, over several governments, both new tools and more resources for the brigand police, but the question that hangs is, of course, what happens to the cases when they are finished with the brigand police. If they are approached quickly enough, will they be followed up in the police circles, will they be followed up with what was previously called SKAT? I also think that is important when we sit at these debates. So that was argument no. 2 for why I assume that the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party agree that we should have this as a whole debate and not just as something separate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170303	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170304	That can be said, but I think it is also based on common sense that all stones should be turned in relation to the situation we are in. And it has to be said that when the rules change, unfortunately, the patterns and behavior of criminals follow suit. New techniques of how to do this are constantly emerging and those who fake documents are also getting better and better at it, and cross-border financial crime is also becoming more and more professional if one can afford to use that term against criminals. These are some of the things that we are facing, which is why we in the Danish People's Party have said several times that if we have the opportunity to make increased case registration and registration checks across different registers, including SKAT, it will of course be entirely legitimate to make some demands in relation to it. However, I do not think that the proposal we have here today is particularly profound in relation to any of these things, because what the Socialists are presenting to us is just such a feel good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170404	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170413	Thank you. I believe that if anyone had said a few years ago that in 2018, we would be discussing money laundering scandals of 1,500 billion. kr., currency exchange of 500 euro notes to an extent that one cannot at all grasp, so I think one might have thought: we have actually quite well managed in Denmark; we are basically a community of trust; we expect most of us to stick to the right side of the law, and if something goes wrong, we have a reasonably effective safeguard to apprehend those who step next to it. At least my imagination wasn't enough for us to discuss scandals of this size. However, when we are in the situation, we must act, of course, and we have made a large number of political agreements and initiatives over several years to stem some of the things we have witnessed, because it is totally unacceptable when the financial sector is part of or actively contributes to money laundering and financial crime. It simply challenges the fundamental trust we must have in each other in society, and that is why, of course, we also have to respond effectively and hard again. We've done a lot of things. As the Danish People's Party's rapporteur also explained, we made a money laundering strategy in September in the financial conciliation group. Something has been agreed, something else is still under way, and we need to respond hard and effectively to the challenges that we have had to face quite clearly. As regards the motion for a resolution itself, we can say that an open door is coming in. It has been put forward two days after we had the first negotiating meeting, as the Minister also explained, and that is why it is perhaps a bit of a blow in the air, because it is essential that we take more effective action, and that is why it is quite reasonable, as the Minister for Industry said, that a process of negotiation has been initiated, which must be presented with various options, different initiatives, so that we can effectively strengthen our efforts. The specific proposal, which is probably the only one in the motion for a resolution here, is that of dividing up the FSA. The Minister has explained why a social democratic government itself has rejected it. In fact, I also believe that it can be supplemented by the fact that at European level there is a recommendation that it is an advantage that traditional financial supervision is integrated with the money laundering effort, so that the forces of a strong organisation are brought together, and that is the recommendation from, I believe, European banking supervision. At any rate, these are some of the things that are under way in the European Union, and that is probably why the former Socialist Government did not choose to go further with the proposal to split the FSA. That would certainly run counter to the recommendations made at European level. However, the key point is, of course, that we need to have thorough discussions, to get round every corner to make sure that we have the most effective protection, the most effective defence against financial crime, that our authorities have the necessary strength, the necessary tools, and that we, as a society, provide the necessary sanctions against people who step by side. So basically, the motion for a resolution is superfluous. We have already started the negotiations, and I am, in fact, most concerned that we will have some results delivered. Then, of course, we can always see that water is wet and that water runs down, but in the Left it is therefore a question of solving the problems that exist, and that is where the Minister has opened negotiations, and we look forward to them really moving ahead after New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170844	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170846	Thank you. I have a question for the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Torsten Schack Pedersen, to whom either the Minister of Business would not reply or did not have time to answer, namely a question about the 30 men who are being transferred to the bailiff police. Is it really understood that this is not new money, but that it is a priority from the ordinary police, i.e. the police and the prosecutor's office, to the bailiff police?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170917	Basically, it's about strengthening SØIK. We have witnessed some very, very violent scandals, and to be sure that the necessary resources are available, SØIK will be given more resources. I do not remember all the elements of the entire police sector in the Finance Act on a stand-by basis, but of course we can dig deeper into that. But the key point is that we provide SØIK with additional resources to strengthen the fight against money laundering, and I think that is a very sensible priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170951	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213170952	That is a key question. We therefore agree that more money should be added to the bailiff police and the fight against money laundering, but where does the money come from? So, as I read the text of the agreement, this is a priority from the police and prosecutor to SØIK. That means taking the money from the ordinary police, from the police officers, cutting down there and hiring people somewhere else. That is, in fact, just what I am quite calmly trying to confirm, because I think the impression that has been given is that it is something else that is the case. So can the rapporteur confirm that you take the money from the ordinary police and hire new people in the bailiff police?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171040	I do not remember the exact wording, but it does not sound wrong in relation to what I remember that it is the way to move resources. That wording doesn't sound quite biased in relation to how I remember the text. I cannot remember all the other elements of the Finance Act on a stand-by basis in relation to police action. But I think it is a good thing that when there is an area where we have to say that it has not been good enough there, we are of course also making sure that we tighten up so that the people who need to be looked at in extra detail are able to do so and that the cases that are can be examined to the bottom. When there has been so much trouble in this area, we also owe it to us to ensure that there are the resources needed to get to the bottom of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171128	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur of the Left. The next one is sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, who is now hurrying towards the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171147	Thank you. Thank you to the Social Democratic Party for calling for this motion for a resolution so that we have the opportunity to discuss this issue, which I believe is of great concern to many people at this time, namely the situation in our financial sector. I believe that most people, and this is also the case when travelling around the country, are shocked by what has happened, i.e. a historical money laundering scandal, perhaps the largest in European history, in which our leading bank, our largest bank, has been deeply involved, and profit tax scandals, where we have seen how reputable it is then they have no longer taken part in robbing European taxpayers billions after billions. And all this comes 10 years after the very same banks were rescued by the states, by the taxpayers, and I think that is an additional source of the frustration that many people experience. You feel, yes, now I don't want to use nasty words, but you feel taken somewhere. So there is a need to discuss what we do. The Social Democrats' proposal to convene negotiations is positive. We are very happy to come to negotiations. We are sorry that we are excluded from the scope of financial conciliation. I do not know which parties it is that do not want us with, but it may be that we can get it out at some point. But it is also a narrow proposal on the part of the Socialists. It is a great deal about combating financial crime narrowly and there we can do things. We can secure more resources for the authorities and we can stop the unfortunate revolving door between the FSA and the financial sector. Just last year there were three assistant directors who moved directly from the FSA to the financial sector. We also saw how the FSA chairman, Henrik Ramlau-Hansen, had been involved or had been responsible at Danske Bank, while the money laundering case to be investigated at the FSA was carried out. So there are some problems there with independence that we should also look at. We could also discuss the Dutch model, where FSA actually has a representative on the banks' board of directors. There's a lot to deal with that we could look at. As I also mentioned in my question, we could also tighten up the penalties in a large number of areas. The Enhedslisten is not generally in favour of sharpening penalties, too much crime is committed in crime, and it does not mean so much what the punishment is, it has no particular effect, but when it comes to financial crime, it actually has an effect, because it is often crime that is well and thoroughly thought through, where the consequences are carefully considered, and therefore punishments actually have a solid effect on these issues. So we want to be a part of that. However, even with the proposals implemented, we are far from achieving our goal. The financial sector will continue to pose a latent threat to the economic stability of our society. A lot of moral appeal is being made during this time. Morality is of course important, but the problems we have in our financial sector are systemic in nature. They are about three decades of deregulation of the financial area at a time when it was felt that the less the state interfered, the better, and the more markets, including the financial markets, were allowed to flow freely, the better everything would be. We have seen the results of that now. That is why we need far more fundamental reforms in the financial sector, which first of all address the issues of how large the individual financial institutions should be. After all, Denmark is the country in Europe, perhaps except Cyprus, which is most exposed to a single financial group, namely the Danske Bank Group, whose balance sheets account for more than 149 per cent. of our bnp. When compared to the United States, the largest bank has a balance of about 13 to 16 per cent. of bnp. So we are in a very unique situation in Denmark. We know that when banks are so big that they are, as they say, too big to fail, or too fat to fail, a culture can easily arise where, because you know that father state comes and saves you if you get hurt, you act in ways that are not beneficial to the surrounding society. So next week we will come from the Enhedslisten to present a fairly comprehensive proposal for reforms in the financial sector, which we hope will contribute to this debate, because if we do not, this is probably not the last scandal we see. Nor will it be the last crisis that we see triggered in the financial sector. So we look forward to the negotiations, and I hope that the conciliation circle will reconsider, especially when there are broad negotiations, which also involve other ministries, whether to conduct these negotiations without Enhedslisten's participation, but otherwise we will of course participate in bilateral meetings with the Minister for Business with all the good and effective ideas we have on how we can have some more bandits in Habits held accountable. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171653	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171655	Thank you to Enhedslisten for support. Sir. Pelle Dragsted also raises the question that there might be a need to look at punishments in some places. And the fact that such supervision is misleading or that information has been withheld for supervision is really serious. I think everyone has been shocked that it has come out as it is. It's one place. Could Mr. Pelle Dragsted try to say a little about what Enhedslisten imagines of punishments? When I had the pleasure of being in charge of the area, we actually made a package which, in a whole range of areas, tightened the penalty. One of the things one might consider looking at is something like interference in the secret of communication, i.e. whether the tools are strong enough for the authorities who need it to obtain and go for the information they need, if they have the slightest suspicion that they are being detained for the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171803	We're willing to look all around. We are presenting ourselves with a proposal in a few days' time, which also contains a number of very concrete proposals for punishments. This is the question I raised about the misinformation of the authorities, where we believe there should be penal conditions in general in relation to a number of pre-existing criminal acts of responsibility, if these are activities that could undermine the financial stability of society. There's no point in it being the same penalty framework you operate with. In addition, we would like to see whether advice on money laundering and tax evasion can be criminalised more, even when money laundering ultimately does not materialise, but that there is a device designed to provide these services, i.e. more co-responsibility legislation in these areas. So we will be presenting a number of things, and we will, of course, also be sending that to both the other parties in the Folketing and to the Ministry for inspiration for the negotiations to be held.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171912	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213171921	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Social Democrats want negotiations to be convened which had already been convened before the proposal was tabled. It must be said to be a rather special situation. I believe that everyone understands the need for an opposition to profile itself and its policy, but the background may well be a little cheap. In the Liberal Alliance, we think it is relevant to look at what can be done to strengthen the FSA. We just need to pay attention to the rhetoric that prevails in the debate right now, when it sounds to some as if money laundering can be completely avoided if only banks behave properly and there is strong enough control. It is a bit problematic with the rhetoric, because whatever is decided in the Danish Parliament, there will be a check-off. No matter how much we strengthen the police, we cannot avoid thefts and other crimes. We should make a policy in which we weigh attention to catching criminals against the concerns of citizens and businesses. I see many people who already find the current rules frustrating when they, for example, find them frustrating. must report cash or when submitting documentation because they are on the board of a cooperative housing association. There are limits to how much we need to tighten. However, the cases that are currently running are deeply serious and very critical, and I think it makes good sense to look at whether supervision can be strengthened. It is therefore a very good idea to have the negotiations that had already been convened before the proposal was tabled. That is why the proposal is quite superfluous and we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213172113	With that we thank Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. And then it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213172129	Thank you. One might ask how little is enough when we talk about the scandals of financial scandals. And this proposal must be said to be a step at the very lowest level, in relation to what it takes, so that, of course, we look at how to strengthen supervision and increase protection. But basically we are dealing with something where we should look much deeper in the financial sector and look at how we can change the system so that we do not have a system that requires the kind of thing we have seen and how we look at our economic system and so on. etc. However, as I said, it is always a start to look at how we can strengthen supervision when the sort of things that have been going on can take place. Then we hear a little about the fact that negotiations have already been called for; we then know nothing about this in the alternative, we have not been called for negotiations. And with this proposal, as I read it, it's all the parties in the Folketing that are going to be involved in discussing this. Of course, we think this is a really, really good idea. It's a little unsuited to grab hold of old conciliation circles when they're new cases, and that's what the government has chosen to do. It is like asking whether we do not have something old from the 00s that we can get to grips with and drive on, instead of saying: okay, now we are in a new situation with a huge money laundering scandal, profit tax scandal, etc. etc. There, of course, it should have been decided to involve all the parties of the Folketing in that work. That has not been chosen, but I think this resolution is in line with that and the alternative can of course support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213172318	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213172329	The main content of this resolution is that the Social Democratic Party would like to have some discussions and some debates here in the Folketing on how we check that banks and the financial sector comply with the legislation. And with such a little Jysk understatement, I think one can calmly conclude that there may be a need for that. It is, of course, too bad and too poor and very destructive for the trust-based society we have in Denmark, when the financial sector makes such illegal acts as we have seen with money laundering, or when something like the profit-tax case happens I must of course stress that it is not a bank that has done it, but some people. Of course, that is not okay, and there is an obvious need for us to strengthen control. That is why, of course, we can vote in favour of the Social Democrats' proposal to negotiate. It is, of course, a little difficult to oppose, even because, as the government has said, negotiations have been called for. So, of course, we support that. I would also like to take this opportunity to praise the government and the Danish People's Party for strengthening the Bagmandspolice by 30 million. kr. in the Finance Act. It may be said that this is needed. The last thing I want to say is that I also hope that in those discussions we can have a discussion about whether Denmark should not be part of the European Banking Union. For seen with radical spectacles, it is also essential to strengthen international cooperation, because many of these illegal conditions have happened in countries other than Denmark, even if it is by Danske Bank, for example. But we can support the motion for a resolution calling for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213172518	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213172524	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Social Democrats for once again raising this debate. This is, of course, an important debate, and it has been discussed many times, both in this Chamber and in various consultations, it is a great deal in public, and it has also been discussed at various meetings and in negotiations with the Minister for Industry. So it is a debate that fills a lot of places, and it is quite right that it does, because there have been some cases which, of course, have left us all to think about what has just happened here. It is clear that economic crime is deeply unacceptable, and in the Conservative People's Party we also support a tough course towards those who commit financial crime. Economic crime is harmful to society, it also harms the financial sector, and of course we will not be able to tolerate it. That is why, in recent years, we have together tightened the legislation, for example. the money laundering area and, most recently, we have increased the penalty for violating the rules eightfold. This has been done in a number of broad agreements within the financial conciliation circle, and it is actually a cooperation that I would like to sign for, because I think it is also an important signal to send out externally that we are broadly united on this sharpened course of money laundering and how we regulate our financial sector at all. Today, there are a few thousand employees in the Danish financial sector who aim to monitor and prevent Danish banks from being abused for money laundering or to finance terrorism or the like. Those are the people who are employed as the legislation has been tightened, and that is actually a good sign, because that means that the tightened legislation is taken seriously out there. On the other hand, the increased focus on combating money laundering in banks has also led to a large increase in banks' reports of suspicious transactions to the police department for financial crime, SØIK. Therefore, it is also very good that we made a Finance Act with the Danish People's Party just under two weeks ago, where we strengthen SØIK with 30 years' work, so we get targeted action against money laundering. In addition, in the agreement, we have strengthened our tax control by 230 billion. kr., and of course we are also ready to strengthen the FSA on the basis of the recommendations that the FSA will make here at the beginning of the new year. We are also ready to look at other areas if needed. With the motion for a resolution, the Social Democrats will require the government to convene negotiations, but these are, of course, negotiations that have already started, as several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, and we therefore do not really think there is any basis for this motion for a resolution, although, of course, we are always ready to discuss whether we should look at other ways of doing things or whether we should take other initiatives to combat financial crime, something in which I believe we have a common interest. In conclusion, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for having raised the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213172857	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213172900	Thank you. And thank you for the fact that Conservatives take this seriously at party level too. What I am asking now is not to be understood rhetorically or something, but the Conservative Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Brian Arthur Mikkelsen was in the time before he became a minister, in other words during the previous period of government, out to talk about the fact that the FSA posed a threat to growth because they were so after the banks, and later as a minister he made the famous statement that the banks should not be bullied. And I know there's been a lot of fun about this, and it's not really to do it, but I just can't help wondering if it might have had an impact, so when you make this kind of statement as a minister, it's kind of a steering signal, also to a financial supervision and to the financial authorities at all. The rapporteur then thinks that it may have contributed to the fact that there has perhaps been a rather too cautious approach to monitoring, for example. Danske Bank from the Danish FSA?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173011	I don't think that at all. So, I think you know the Conservative People's Party very badly if you do not have a feeling that we are of course opposed to and are also prepared to take a tough course in relation to crime and, of course, also financial crime. In other words, it is unacceptable, whether you are in the financial sector or where you are, if you undermine our society in this way or commit crime that is so damaging to society, such as the United Kingdom. money laundering is. It is precisely money laundering that helps to finance criminal networks or corruption, terrorism and so on, and we must, of course, take action against and crack down on that. And I actually think that no matter what conservative you ask, the answer will be the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173100	I think that is really, really good, because it is important that those who are doing the social-disrupting crime are also those who are going after, and not just those who, if I may say so, may be born on the less fortunate side of society without great opportunities. However, I still find it remarkable that the statements made at that time, especially when we have been told later that the FSA itself says that they have not fully applied the law. I cannot help wondering whether the political signals that came from the Conservative Minister for Economic Affairs in the past have had the boring effect of sending out a signal that now, because we did not have to bully the banks, that regulation or supervision should be a little dampened. Those statements fell while this money laundering thing was going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173154	No, that's not quite right. So this money laundering is something that has happened long before this government has joined and long before the then Conservative Minister was Minister of Business. These cases that we are seeing from Estonia are, after all, things that go all the way back in the time of the previous government. So I cannot even imagine what a minister has said a few years later. What remains is that we are, of course, hitting hard on financial crime; that we as a party stand for that, of course, is deeply unacceptable and that those who commit this kind of crime are punished. We have now taken the lead of a Conservative Minister of Industry to eightfold the penalties and tighten the legislation in a large number of areas, because that is, of course, deeply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173240	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173243	Thank you for that, President. I'm a little looking for an answer to who's paying the bill for these 30 men that the Bagman police are now getting. Is the new money being added to it, so to speak, to the police, or is it the police's response to Mrs Jensen's break-in that has to pay for the effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173310	What has been agreed under the Finance Act is clear in the Finance Act, and that is that some funds, 30 years' work, are being targeted to strengthen SØIK, because we think there is a need for this. It is the case that in recent years we have gradually strengthened the police. We have created a new police force, increased recruitment for the entire police force, which means that in the future we will have far more officers than we have had in the past. We've had the basket broken, and now it's starting to move forward. Now we think that there is a need to make an extraordinary effort in this area, and that is why we are targeting some of the resources, 30 years' work, to SØIK, because that is what is needed. In fact, I believe that Mr. Morten Bødskov agrees that there is a need to strengthen this effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173352	We agree that there is a need to strengthen the Bagman police in this context, but I would just like a clear answer to that, because I think I understand what the rapporteur is saying, and that is that it is the ordinary police who are going to pay the bill for this. Can we not just say yes to the fact that we have to save one place so that we can find money for another place, and yes to the fact that it can then be the police's current efforts to break-in, which must, as it were, save money on so that we can spend the money on the Bagman police? Can't you just answer yes that's what's happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173434	Well, if that's what happened, you could say yes. What is happening is that we are strengthening the police and have been doing so for a number of years, and that actually means that there will be more officers in the future, and that also means that for example. Such things as solving break-ins, there will be more resources in the future. From the conservative side, we are also ready to further strengthen the police. That's not what's missing, but we just can't train the cops any faster than we can. In the Finance Act, we have set aside money for various initiatives in the area of justice, which gradually strengthen the police in the various areas that we consider important to prioritise, and there is SØIK, we think, something that it is absolutely essential to strengthen. We can see that, as there are more reports coming from the banks, matters are piling up, so we certainly think it is important to target resources for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173520	Thank you to Anders Johansson, and welcome to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr. Morten Bødskov from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213173528	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for a very good debate, I think. It is actually possible to have a fine debate in the Parliamentary Assembly on a proposal which, of course, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby said 131⁄2 line is long. It succeeded quite well, and in fact it also succeeded in bringing together a majority behind the proposal. That much can be done in a little bit of space. Thank you very much for a good debate and for the majority backing the proposal. We look forward to the government listening to what the Danish Parliament has discussed today, namely that this should not just be seen as a negotiation that needs to take place in order to strengthen the efforts of the FSA. There is a need to think together both at the tax administration, at the Bagmandspolice and at the FSA. And that is because the scandals we have seen in the financial sector are shaking us all. That has also been confirmed here today. We have witnessed a huge failure on the part of parts of the financial sector and, as the President of Finance Denmark said at the recent annual meeting of the Parliamentary Parliament, the financial sector has broken the social contract of which they are part. As has also been the case, I think it was Mr. Pelle Dragsted, who mentioned it, it is exactly 10 years since these days that the Danish taxpayers had to guarantee more than 4,000 billion. kr. to the total financial sector. This was done because a global collapse was a reality, and not least because we had seen a violently irresponsible behaviour on the part of some Danish banks. And the handshake that the financial sector got at the time I was involved in negotiating it myself and sat at night negotiating these cases and as a collective parliament and the Danish taxpayers gave the financial sector, one can say has been broken. At any rate, it is quite clear that the Social Democratic Party did not expect the answer to the Danish history's biggest economic rescue plan to be a burst of new cases of banks' active aid to tax evasion for billions, attacks on Community funds in the form of active aid to tax fraud, the world's biggest money laundering scandal and, indeed, now, among other things. investigation of large-scale money laundering in the country's two largest banks. All the while the taxpayers guaranteed thousands of billions to the banks and thousands of Danes lost their jobs and the growth of Danish society suffered a historic setback because of the totally unacceptable behaviour of the financial sector, yes, one must understand that this has just gone on. Then it remains, and that is what is actually appalling in it and, as I have said, a fundamental breach of the social contract that was created, which we thought was created between the Folketing, the taxpayers and the financial sector. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. That is because we actually believe that what has happened is quite serious and stronger action is needed. As the motion for a resolution also shows, we believe that the government can easily be more ambitious. The FSA is under pressure, but it must be understood that negotiations start early in the new year at the earliest, as has been said. We have been confirmed as recently as yesterday when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, together with the Committee on Legal Affairs, visited them, is drowning in cases. The negotiations, must be understood by the Minister for Justice, beginning at the earliest in autumn 2019. And the IRS, so that it doesn't have to be a lie, is still pulling away after the weather and struggling with another giant rescue plan. And, as has not been said directly, but as it appears, yes, the money for these 30 men that the government intends to give to the Bagmand police must be found within the framework of the money that is currently being spent on the other police. So we think there is a need for a joint debate on this. We believe there is a need for everything that is announced not to wait for it. We need to see this in a context where both the recovery of the tax administration's action against financial crime, the strengthening of the Bagmand police, which everyone agrees is necessary, and, above all, the increase in the FSA that is needed, are seen in a context. We need to look at how these authorities cooperate better and become more effective in their cooperation. We need to look at whether they need new tools so that we can become even stronger in both the prevention and the fight against financial crime. This is important, and it was confirmed yesterday when the Committee on Industry and Legal Affairs visited SØIK, i.e. the bailiff police, because it emerged that when it comes to the exchange of information between the Bagmand police and the tax administration, there are now discussions on the legal basis for exchanging information. That discussion is between two key authorities, 10 years after we stood in this hall, some of us stood here in the middle of the night to save the financial sector. If that alone is not enough argument for us to see this in a context, then I do not know what. The truth is that the money laundering agreement that we concluded here earlier this year is quite well done, but which has also been mentioned by a number of speakers, the reality is that it would not have become so strong if the opposition had not pressed seriously. The reality is that in recent years there have been signals from ministers and the government, which we do not even need to discuss if it could be misunderstood. The director of the FSA said so himself at the hearing held in the Danish Parliament, where we discussed the money laundering scandal at Danske Bank. He said, more or less literally, that one day we will be told that we will hug the financial sector, and the next day we will be told that we will have to tighten up on the financial sector. Of course, one understands the frustration of such a director when the signals can be as different as they are. And that is why it is important that we see these negotiations together, that the signal is no longer in the direction of us stopping bullying the banks, but that we take this with a completely different seriousness, that is to say, the efforts both in the Bagmand police, the tax authorities and the FSA under one and start the negotiations on it. That is what is needed. We all have an interest in having an efficient and well-functioning financial sector. This is necessary and a prerequisite for having a modern welfare society like what we have. That is why the motion for a resolution calls for negotiations by the government, where it is not just about the FSA, but about the tax administration and the FSA and, above all, about the ability of these authorities to cooperate better and more effectively in the fight against economic and financial crime. Social democracy has indeed put forward a whole series of proposals, as has also been said. Basically, we believe that the structure of the FSA can be discussed. Is there going to be a split? We think that much points to it, namely that it will be able to free up resources and focus on the ability of the FSA as a control body for financial crime. We believe that perhaps the most important thing is that the many fine words on the banks' websites, on proper behaviour and other things are now being brought together in a code of conduct for the financial sector and that the financial sector itself is beginning to take the lead. We believe there is a need to set up a new Centre for the Bagmand Police to combat financial crime. Those of us who have been dealing with justice policy for more than a decade will know that such is the case with the police intelligence service, the Center for Terror Analysis, where analyses are being gathered, threat assessments: where are the threats coming from? If you look at the very violent case with Danske Bank, there is no doubt that there has been a need to see such a centre in action. Well, could you have warned? Could it have been analyzed that the customers who had been inside Danske Bank would have bright red lamps if they had engaged where they had been? There are plenty of proposals that we are ready for, but on the bottom line there is therefore a great deal of thanks to the parties of the Danish Parliament today for supporting the resolution and for following our call for the government to see these negotiations under one, and for starting with the aim of ensuring much better and more effective cooperation between the tax administration, the Bagmandspolice and the FSA. So thank you for your support. I look forward to getting these negotiations under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174519	You are already starting now, because there are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174525	Yeah, hello. It is just that we can be absolutely sure that we understand the proposal that I am asking: is this how widely understood the parties of the Folketing, which the authors also believe should be called for these negotiations? Or is it still the small circle of conciliation which the proposers think is right to call for negotiations on what we are discussing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174553	Well, now it is the government that organises negotiations, and it is the government that deals with conciliation. It's like the government's job. But if the alternative has good ideas, I think they should follow the same path that the Minister of Business invited Enhedslisten to go. Give me the ideas! As a starting point, we think that this should lie within the conciliation circle, but is open to the involvement of other parties in it. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174621	So the idea behind this motion for a resolution is actually that it should continue in the conciliation circle that has already been convened for these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174630	In any case, it can be said that the issues we are discussing here are issues which we have been discussing for more than ten years now in the same conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174640	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174646	My question was: what should this resolution actually do? The government has called for negotiations. We have been to the first negotiating meeting, so basically I do not know what the proposal is going to make of difference, apart from the fact that social democracy may appear to be capable of action and will something more than others. I also hear the Minister say that he is willing to discuss anything that comes on the table, and that is fine. So it is kind of difficult to see what the purpose is, and especially when you listen to the rapporteur's answer to questions put by Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist. It is then said that the rapporteur notes that it is the government that organises the negotiations. So I just need to understand what the purpose of the resolution is. Is this asking for some negotiations that have been started? Or is it to discuss things that everyone is free to put on the negotiating table for those negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174740	The aim is to ensure that we do not just sit and discuss what can happen when it comes to the FSA. The aim is to ensure that the government looks at this with a much more serious view and that we bring together the ministers responsible, that is. the tax minister, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Industry, on the table, so that we look at this in a context. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen knows very well that this was exactly what the Socialists spent a lot of time convincing the government of the last time we were negotiating. Unfortunately, the reality is that it was more than difficult just to get, for example. The Minister for Justice is also present at the table and that what has then been the result of the text of the agreement that can be read in the current money laundering agreement is that a great many things have been pushed into negotiations that will not be available for another year. It is just that we are quietly saying that we want the government to look at this more seriously and to invite at least the ministers responsible for this so that we can ensure that there is coherence in the effort and that negotiations are not to take place independently of each other at intervals of up to six months. That's what's real. And that this is a bad idea, we believe, was confirmed yesterday, when both of us visited the Bagmand police, because 10 years after the financial crisis, we are still sitting away discussing whether there are problems with legislation when it comes to exchanging information. Well, you don't need any more arguments to follow the Social Democrats in saying: it's totally wrong with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213174922	Yet, the answer was to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that of course it is the government that organises the negotiations, and then I have a little difficulty in seeing the great purpose of it. Nothing cuts anyone off in a debate from putting various things on the table. That does not really change a discussion here in the Parliamentary Assembly. The only concrete proposal in the motion for a resolution is the proposal to split up the FSA. And then I just have to hear: what has changed since the Social Democracy was in government? One might wonder a little, because with the enthusiasm and enthusiasm that Mr. Morten Bødskov shows, it seems that the years 2011-2015 have been printed by the Social Democratic Party history. In other words, for four years you were sitting at the top of the table, and there I do not think it is quite clear that new initiatives were swarming. However, the one decision that was made was to refrain from splitting up the FSA, because it was considered to be a bad idea. What has changed since 2012, when a Social Democratic government refused to split up the FSA?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175032	Now we have actually been trying to find out whether this is the case, as has been said here all along. I am in favour of seeing that the previous government has, in fact, specifically looked at what was referred to here, in other words that what is about Financial Stability, according to the English example, lies with the National Bank, and what is about control, lies with the FSA. I have the credit to see if it has actually been discussed. It may be that we are the ones who are wrong, because we have a little difficulty in seeing that this is actually what was discussed. It is true that the structure of the FSA was discussed, but has this been discussed specifically? We have good to see that. Then it is clear that when you look at what else has happened to the stakes in the then SRSF government, one of the things I helped to make was the package that Enhedslisten and Mr. Pelle Dragsted helped. And so that we do not have to swing too high, we could try to take the minutes from the Left Parliament Group and look at what the Left had very difficulty in saying yes to. What was that? That was exactly the package. But you'll have to take that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175144	Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175146	It is true what the rapporteur says, namely that some sensible steps were taken under that government. It also appears in the whole discussion on conciliation that it is not entirely true that all negotiations have always taken place in the same conciliation circle. Unfortunately, there was a shift with the change of government, where, strangely enough, the Enhedslisten got out of the negotiations that took place with the Minister of Industry, but remained in the negotiations that took place with the Minister of Taxation. We used to be with both places. Why that change happened, the government has to explain itself. We think it's too bad. My question is actually about something else. Sir. Morten Bødskov's colleague, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen has just published a book where he among other things. discussing the issue of dividing up some of the largest Danish banks, because we have some very, very large colossians. It is clear that when there comes this kind of crime, where there might be consequences for Danske Bank in the form of large fines from e.g. American financial supervision threatens our society in a completely different way than if the size of the banks were smaller. I know that this is not the official policy of the Social Democratic Party. I have been able to read that in the newspapers, so there is no reason to reply to that, but it is more the rapporteur's own reflections on the context and extent of the threat this type of crime poses to our society that I would like to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175301	There is no doubt that I share very much the analysis which my colleague Mr Beazley has put forward. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen will be included in the book. Well, that's true, too, sir. Pelle Dragsted says that it is not the policy of social democracy that we are about to split up banks. But there is no doubt that we need to be constantly aware of what shocks can happen to Danish and, for that matter, the European economy, when we have such a large financial sector as we have in Denmark and when individual banks are as large as they are. I mean, I've been standing in this hall in the middle of the night and was supposed to be involved in banning short-selling, because it was just about the case that a big bank was being knocked over completely because of it. So we have made a lot of legislation in this area, and I will certainly not deny that, for the sake of not getting into a similar situation, we are going to look at some of the things that are at the heart of this discussion, namely that although we are making legislation, the creativity of the financial sector is proving to be quite enormous and there is a need to keep an eye on it all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175424	I think this is an important message from the Social Democratic Party, because sometimes, when we talk about the financial sector, it sounds like it is almost a natural state, as we do today. But if you look at the history of the Danish financial sector, this is the state we have, with such large banks that fill so much and which have so wide business areas, is a quite new experiment. It starts in the early 1990s and runs until today. At that time we did not have banks of that caliber, and that is why I think that, after everything that has happened, we can ask ourselves: has this experiment actually served the citizens, agriculture, small businesses and financial stability, or was it an experiment that we should perhaps gradually put an end to?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175512-2	We believe that we must be very vigilant about the developments that are taking place. I also think that when you look at what has actually been adopted by legislation, we are also. A lot of things have been done. Structural changes have also been made in the supervision of the financial sector, which means that the things we saw earlier will not be seen again. But it is clear that experience also shows that creativity, as I said, is enormous, and that means, of course, that our approach to the control of the sector must also be. What I also think is needed is that the financial sector is now explaining how they intend to restore the social contract that they themselves believe has been broken. I think that is the crucial question for them: how should that social contract be restored? There I think they should try to read a little bit about those inner tabs, where there is something about their social responsibility, their values, their approach to investment, etc. There is something that I think some of them are about to refresh. It is clear that it is important to get the financial sector to take greater responsibility for the more stable development of their business areas, so that you do not have to hunt down the last decimal place every time and you do not have to do business with people who know that there can be problems. Those are some of the things they're now saying they're gonna look at differently. I think that is very sensible, and I think that we should start by sitting down and then make a suggestion as to how this social contract, which we say we have broken ourselves, should be restored.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175658	Sir. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175700	Thank you. My question to Mr. Morten Bødskov is actually doing this with the financing of SØIK, because now Mr. Morten Bødskov told us how it was financed in the Finance Act. And now I was just looking through this bill of finance published by the Social Democratic Party, that is to say, what is called "Do good times better for everyone," where you acknowledge that things are going well, and there I can't really find that you have given priority to the money laundering area or SØIK or anything else. So, I don't know if Mr. Morten Bødskov might be able to dedicate the rest of us to how we intended to give priority to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175738	For example, the Social Democrats have said that we believe that such a special unit should be set up in relation to SØIK, in other words a centre for combating financial crime. That's what we've been saying. I'm still waiting for you to finance these 30 men, who they say are new, for SØIK. Is it the ordinary police who pay the bill, and how, for example, will it be ensured that this does not mean that the police have to take action in one place in order to be able to give resources elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175818	Well, I think the rapporteur is a little out of the question. Now I understand that it is a very, very important priority for the Social Democratic Party to strengthen SØIK, but in the draft budget that has been presented, it is not mentioned in one word. I have not been able to find one place where SØIK is mentioned or where money laundering is mentioned, so I actually ask quite briefly: how are we going to finance this? Where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175845	I have said right now that the Social Democratic Party has a proposal to set up a new Centre for the Bagmand Police, a centre to help prevent and to help bring together efforts in the fight against financial crime. This is a proposal that we have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175907	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175910	Thank you. Sir. Morten Bødskov, in his reply to the Left rapporteur, says that the purpose of this resolution is to get more serious into the matter here and to bring together the ministers responsible and to have coherence in the treatment and action against money laundering. I think we are all very much in agreement with that. So I still do not really understand what the difference is between this resolution and the negotiations and the efforts that the Minister has already set in motion. Why can't sir? Morten Bødskov didn't bring these things into those negotiations? What's the difference? What difference does this resolution make in relation to what has already been set in motion?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213175955	It may be that it's just me, but I don't know if the questioner saw the Minister of Justice or the tax minister around the table when we had the negotiating meeting. I did not see them, and that is the point: we think this is so serious that we should bring the minister around the table. In particular, we should look at how we can strengthen cooperation between the Tax Administration, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Bagmandspolice. What are the new tools they need? How can we ensure that we do not find ourselves in situations where, when the Committee on Business Affairs and Legal Affairs visits the Bagmand police, we can hear that there are discussions about: do we have the power to exchange information in certain areas? It's just what it's all about, and I can't believe you can be against it. That is why we are pleased that there is a majority behind it. Basically, it's all about • and I think we all agree that this collaboration should be hyper-efficient. Why does it have to? Because what we were told yesterday was that the creativity of the criminal environment in this area is enormous and that it is going very, very fast. That is why it is of no use that the negotiations take place at six months' intervals and that, when agreements are made in one place, we can hear that we are still sitting and discussing somewhere else, how and whether we can at all exchange the information needed to exchange between two other authorities. I cannot understand why it can be so difficult to support this proposal and say that it must stop and that we must therefore bring the ministers responsible around the table and have a joint debate on it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213180127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213180129	There is absolutely no question that anyone is opposed to making a serious effort on these matters, not at all. No one has ever said that; we all agree with it. I just ask: why is it so difficult with all the aspects and all the angles that Mr. Morten Bødskov would like to join us? Why can't he just bring them into relation to the things that have already been set in motion? Why is a motion for a resolution necessary, and what is the difference between this resolution? I understand and I fully agree with all those things, sir. Morten Bødskov would like to, but why is it so hard just to take them to the negotiations that have been started?
ParlaMint-DK_20181213180206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213180207	I am sorry if the questioner thinks that time is wasted. I certainly don't think it is. I think we have had an extremely good discussion. There is a majority behind the Social Democrats' motion for a resolution, and I assume that the government is going to go to these negotiations and that we understand the signal given by the majority and behind our resolution, namely that it is quite important that the authorities who are sitting here should be brought into the negotiating table which we must then wait a little longer for to get started, but which nevertheless, we must understand, get started after New Year, and that is what we think is important. After all, it is broad agreements that are behind this, both with regard to the police, the FSA and the tax administration, but where something is like missing is that we sit around the table and ask them: Are there some places where, for example, you have problems with exchanging information? And there is. We were told that yesterday, and that is the argument number one for the negotiations to be organised in this way, and that is what should be the primary and main focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213180318	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. No one else wishes to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213180342	The debate has been opened and I will just read this out: there is no minister in this area. It is Parliament's own responsibility. I will listen carefully to the debate on the proposal to be discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dam Kristensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213180419	Thank you. The Arctic is undergoing major changes. The political awareness of the Arctic has been strengthened. Climate change offers new opportunities, but certainly also new challenges. A number of countries, including great powers, are following developments very closely, and it goes without saying that the Commonwealth has a great interest in the Arctic and its development, and this should of course also be reflected in the way we work in the Danish Parliament. Until now, we have had a subcommittee under the delegation to the Nordic Council, which has worked well and stable and also engaged. However, among the members of the Subcommittee and the members of the Nordic Council, there has been a long discussion over whether we should not strengthen Arctic cooperation and thus also the political debate on the Arctic in the Danish Parliament, and there we have reached the resolution we are now considering today. It is certainly not because it is a criticism of the subcommittee that has worked well and hard, but it is the desire to make the Arctic something more central in the Danish Parliament, and with the resolution here we are strengthening both the opportunity to discuss the Arctic more intensively, but also to coordinate the Arctic effort. Because I think we can see, when we have the annual debate on the Arctic, that in several groups there are discussions about whether it is now the members of the Defence Committee, the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the members of the Greenland or Faroe Islands Committee or the members of the Nordic Council who are going to take that debate. With this proposal, we are now incorporating exactly the committees I mentioned here, and we say that we want to have 12 members as a starting point and then a representation from these committees, including from the Nordic Council, precisely to strengthen coordination and thus the influence of the Folketing, and there has been a great deal of support for this. We have also been told in the proposal that we would also like to see the North Atlantic members of the Folketing naturally have a place in this cooperation. After we tabled the motion for a resolution, we have also had discussions and the Danish People's Party has asked the very good question: what about the Legal Affairs Committee in all the discussion we have about the Arctic and the Commonwealth, etc.? It has been shown that many found an excellent idea. That is why there is a significant majority which will now come up with an amendment which means that we will extend the committee to include two appointed members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and thus reach 14. In fact, then, we are dealing with another problem, or at least with a demand, as has been the case, not least from Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl and the Enhedslisten, who have actually very rightly said that with only 12 members and with the North Atlantic members as part of an Arctic delegation, there could be parties that could not participate in Arctic cooperation. I think we're gonna take that away with this. It will now be up to the parties in the negotiations following a parliamentary election to help ensure that there is a broad representation around Arctic cooperation. So I should just like to sum up this by saying that the motion for a resolution has clearly and exclusively meant that Parliament should be more closely involved in the important work and discussion surrounding the Arctic, and I think we have found a fairly good model for this. It is new, and it has not been tried before in the Folketing, but I believe it will be effective. I also owe it to a few people who cannot be here today. It is not because they would not have liked to have taken part in the debate, but it is a busy political time that we are participating in, and not least Sjúrður Skaale, who has been one of the architects behind this, is prevented from being present because there are important political discussions in the Faroe Islands. But he's totally behind this, and he's glad we're gonna make it. In fact, he sees it as a new political milestone. Then I have also promised to greet the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, which could not be present but which also fully agrees with the intentions of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213180840	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen. There are no brief comments, so we turn to Mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213180853	Thank you very much. My colleague Mr. Henrik Brodersen has been very committed to this, and then I can stand here foaming the cream, but he has really put a lot of work into it. So it is, we think, a question of involvement in the Arctic, so simply to give it a boost, as I think it is called. The fact that we are gathering together, and I think that will be the result, is precisely the people who want to be involved in this, I think that is very strengthening. I would also like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, for his willingness to include members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. It is also a little because the text itself says that in all fields some of the most important ones, which are the Committee on Legal Affairs, are still missing, since it is the state that runs the police and prosecutors and also the judicial system itself in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I think it's a good way it's landed. I think that this assurance that all four North Atlantic members can participate also makes it easier now that the delegation has been extended to 14, otherwise perhaps it would be a disproportionate part of the delegation's members, which were North Atlantic. So we are very pleased about that. I understand, too, sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen, that it is very likely that it will be a united Parliament that is involved in this. We shall see that in the rest of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181050	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bertel Haarder from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181101	It is very easy to see and argue that the Arctic will have an increasing importance in the world and in the Commonwealth and that we therefore need to have a better and stronger and better equipped forum to discuss Arctic issues in this Parliament. I shall not dwell on this, but the occasion is obvious. I have been involved in the whole process of making this proposal, and on behalf of the Left I can give my full support to the proposal, including the adjustments that have been made following the discussions we have had, so it is now a 14-man delegation that we are talking about. I'd like to thank you, sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen for the way he's handled it. I sense that you must not discuss with the President that it will end up being a unanimous Parliament supporting this, and then it cannot be better, especially since we were not unanimous when we started. Then it'll be fine when we end up being unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181232	Thank you, sir. Bertel Haarder. I think we are skipping the Enhedslisten's rapporteur; he is concerned with other tasks. I have been informed that he is kindly in favour of the changes. I'd like to invite Mr. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181249	Thank you. In fact, when the Liberal Alliance is not co-sponsors of the proposal, it is because at that time our rapporteur had not had it in the parliamentary group and there is great respect in our party for the parliamentary group. So that's why. However, we are in complete agreement with the proposal and fully support it. This can be done with many reasons, but there is no doubt that the Arctic plays a greater and greater role in international politics, and that Denmark, if we are to be honest now, is usually a small player globally, but in the Arctic plays a major role. That is why it is good to strengthen the work and we see that the proposal is intended to strengthen the work and not a pointy finger at what has been going on so far, but an anchoring in the Folketing. And it is, in fact, a recognition that this is an important matter. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181345	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen, and welcome to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181354	Thank you. The alternative also supports the proposal. We are very pleased with the adjustments that have been made, because we have had the same concern about representation and the possibility that some of the smallest parties in the Folketing might not be able to participate in the delegation. I'm in contrast to Mr. Knox. Bertel Haarder has not been involved in the work from the beginning, but has been thrown into it as the new group chairman of the Alternative, but we naturally support the proposal. As a small nob, I can tell you that in our government programme, which we launched when we set up with our own President as Prime Minister's candidate, we have actually proposed a ministerial post to the North Atlantic representatives in the Danish Parliament, which should shift perhaps every two years, precisely so that the Faroe Islands and Greenland simply have more direct influence on foreign policy in Denmark, not least because the Arctic has become so much the subject of an incipient major political rivalry. So it's a little something else we're out in here, but it's nevertheless a really good step in the right direction. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181504	Thank you. Then I would like to welcome one of those who is perhaps the main reason why we are playing such a major role in the Arctic, namely Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181516	Thank you very much. I should like to apologize in advance for my vote; I am a little ill. The existing Arctic Working Group was initiated by the former member of the Folketing on behalf of Inuit Ataqatigiit, namely Mrs Sara Olsvig. I think that is perhaps also important to mention in this context. We welcome the strong support that we can strengthen our commitment to the Arctic here in the Folketing. We also support the amendment that has come from the Danish People's Party, so that we also ensure that smaller Danish parties will be able to be represented in the Arctic delegation, as it will be called. It is very positive that there are so many who want to participate in the work in relation to the Arctic, and it is very clear that the commitment has increased just in the years when I have been in the Folketing. So it's really, really positive. At the same time, it is also important to stress that it is important to have some active members, that it is not necessarily the number, but that it is just as much activity that is extremely important in relation to an Arctic delegation. The North Atlantic members of the Folketing are self-written in the Arctic delegation. It has been important for us to emphasise in that process. It is not least because we know a lot about the Arctic, and we would really like to contribute to the work of the Parliament around the Arctic. A small comment from Inuit Ataqatigiit is therefore also that we think it is natural that it is a North Atlantic chairman who comes to the Arctic delegation. So that is one of the things we need to look for a parliamentary election, that is, how we can ensure the composition of the Arctic delegation. With these words, I would like to say that Inuit Ataqatigiit supports the proposal and I also know that Tjóðveldi does so and we also support the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181712	Thank you very much to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? There isn't. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181213181733	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for a long day in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 14 December 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
