ParlaMint-DK_20181106130014	The meeting is open. From members of the Danish Parliament Carl Holst and Leif Mikkelsen, who are on leave, I have received notice that from 8 November 2018 they can again meet in Tinget. The duties of Hans Christian Thonings and Lene Foged as temporary members of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 87 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Disbursements Denmark. Stine Brix (EL), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 27 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the alcohol treatment package in the context of the reform of health). Trine Torp (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 28 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of the right to be declared healthy for his psychiatric diagnosis). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 29 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to vote against an increase in the EU's multiannual financial framework). Henning Hyllested (EL), Claus Kvist Hansen (DF) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Hasteforskning nr. F 17 (What will the government do about the situation that has arisen where tens of thousands of drivers from third countries can drive across Europe as a result of a gap in the rules on the employment of third-country nationals in combination with cabotage rules, combined rules and rules on international transport?). Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT): Request no. F 18 (What will the government do to strengthen the alcohol treatment to the approx. 30,000 young people who are today showing signs of alcohol dependence, and what specific initiatives does the government consider necessary to get young people out of their abuse?). The titles of the notified cases will be found in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181106130153	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106130249	The debate is open. Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106130313	Thank you. The purpose of the bill is to target rules for transport allowances and allowances by kilometre rate. Specifically, these are the rules which apply to persons who are unable to use public transport and therefore receive reimbursement for transport by other means of transport. The current rules were introduced in the context of the SU reform in 2013. The need to target the rules has arisen because there has been an accidental increase in expenditure compared to what was estimated in 2013. In other words, today's system is not working as intended. For the Social Democratic Party, it is important that there is good support for student transport in connection with education, so that education can be provided throughout the country. At the same time, it is, of course, crucial that the system works as intended. Today, the rules are such that the compensation is calculated and paid at a rate of one kilometre on a monthly basis, regardless of the number of days of actual transport during each month. The draft law therefore provides for the rules to be targeted so that only days when there has been transport between residence and place of education can be reimbursed on the basis of a declaration of faith and law. Here it should be pointed out that the comments on the bill show that the allowance will not be limited to days of planned teaching, but that it also includes days when the student goes to the place of study for group work or literature search. It's important. At the same time, the draft law lays down reasonable limits on what can be characterised as daily transport, in the form of 3-4 hours of journey time each way. At the same time, there is a need to get some outstanding questions out of committee work, both in relation to the type of transport that will not be covered by the direction of destination in the future, but also, of course, its scope. We are thinking in particular of the comments made by the LO's and the FTF on paid internship and the limited group of students who will have a long distance from residence to the place of internship, such as students who train in rural areas or in subject areas where the places of internship are very remote. In addition, there is a need to clarify whether the documentation requirements are arranged in a flexible manner so that there is no trouble for either the student or the institutions. The draft law provides for a fair targeting of the rules so that there are still good conditions for persons receiving compensation for transport by means of transport other than public transport. At the same time, the original intention of the rules is being applied more closely. Finally, with the expectation of a good committee, the Social Democratic Party welcomes the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106130655	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106130706	Thank you. This is one of the legislative proposals that, to me, is based on common sense. It is about grants for transport to students for transport between the home and the study place or the home and the internship. Common sense comes in where the rules do not look at whether students actually transport themselves. Nor do the rules today set limits on where you can live to receive subsidies. It is common sense for the Danish People's Party to decide that you can only receive subsidies when you actually transport and that you can only receive subsidies for transport in Denmark. It also sets a limit of 3-4 hours of transport each way. I guess that's common sense, too. How many students choose to have a daily journey time of over 8 hours? Here there is also a possibility of exemption if there are cases where some really choose to have it. It is also the case today that if you receive too much indemnification, there is no legal basis for you to recover the amount. It is also common sense to say that, of course, we must be able to call back unjustified subsidies. Finally, there is a change for students in paid internship in higher education so that they can no longer receive transport subsidies. On the other hand, they can, like all other employees, be deducted from transport to and from work. That also sounds like common sense. So the conclusion of the Danish People's Party on this bill is, as I have said, that the bill is the expression of common sense. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106130843	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark has a brief comment to make to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106130848	I have also read this bill and think that much of it is common sense. If you're going to find some money, I think it might make sense. However, there is one thing that worries me, and that is the last thing the rapporteur mentioned, namely this point of transport during paid work. What worries me a little is whether students who have been used to getting discounts will suddenly find that it will be much more expensive to go to their internship, especially if they have a long way to go. It is true that they can deduct it, but the money does not come much later. So it is more to hear whether the rapporteur is not concerned that some students who have actually been used to getting discounts will suddenly experience having to spend a great deal more money on transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106130930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106130931	No, I am confident that the students will be able to adjust their advance statements so that they can get that money back. And immediately, when I look at it, there is not much difference between the subsidy you get and the deductions you can get to transport yourself. In my view, it is very reasonable to equate those who are in jobs in one way with those who are paid in another context. So, overall, I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131000	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131001	It is true that one can say that one corresponds to the other. But I think that for many students there will probably be a higher value in being able to get discounts now and here than that you later get something back in taxes. That's what I'm really a little worried about, i.e. whether this is going to hit the students hard. I know that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are also a little concerned about the need to have an equal opportunity to go to places of work, even a long way away. The rapporteur could then be a little interested, for example. To examine in committee what the actual consequences will be, also in economic terms, for the students who are affected by this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131037-2	I would therefore like to take part in the committee's work in looking at how the economy will look in one and the other example. I do not really imagine that it will have the big difference for the Treasury, whether you pay it as a tax credit or you give it as a subsidy. So we can certainly take a good look at that. The fact that you only get it out the following year is, of course, about when you self-declare it. You have seen the possibility of fixing your advance statement at any time, and then you will get the money out. But of course it requires that you as a student have an overview of the world in which you live, and it is not necessarily certain that you always have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131113	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131125	Thank you, President. Students today can be reimbursed for transport costs by car if they cannot take the bus and the train, and I think that is right, very sensible. After all, it is a question of all young people having equal access to education, not least in view of demographic developments. However, the present system has proved to have an unintended result in relation to special compensation after a mileage rate. We in the Left believe that this is due to the way in which the present system is constructed, whereby students today get the allowance calculated and paid on a monthly basis, which means that this does not happen after the actual days the student leaves home and the place of study. We in the Left believe that this should be changed to a fairer model, a more precise model. Indeed, we want to ensure a system that uses the public funds in the best way possible to meet the needs of students. This scheme must ensure a more transparent solution so that students report in future the actual days when they transport themselves from residence to place of education. It is therefore also positive that the new scheme makes it possible to claim incorrect unpaid compensation. This helps to ensure a fair and equitable distribution of the resources available. So with this bill we ensure better framework conditions and a fairer distribution of public funds, with respect for students' needs. That is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131258	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131303	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I am a little curious as to whether the rapporteur has an estimate of what it can bring into the economy to the state to implement this legislation and how many could potentially cheat and would be discovered.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131327	I do not have those figures on the table, but it is, of course, a question of having a system that is fair. Of course students must be compensated for the journey they are taking, but it is something more accurate to do so on the basis that students go in and report how many days they have actually travelled instead of getting some kind of monthly average. It is simply not an equally precise system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131353	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131354	In fact, I agree with the rapporteur. I'm just wondering about this increased bureaucracy, which it will give for educational institutions to check and for students to report to now sum it up and is it worth it? So I am just interested in whether the rapporteur had some pictures of what the cost would be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131418	Well, I always think it's healthy to compare to yourself. After all, there are members of parliament who, if you go to Jutland, for example, to a place where you can get a mileage allowance, then also have to report it. As recently as today we have been told that now we have a small app where we can go in and do it, and it doesn't take many seconds. I have not tried it myself yet, but I think it is more important to have a system that is fair than to provide these monthly estimates. So I insist that this is, of course, the right thing, as well as the system we have is the right thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131450	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. The next is Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131459	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, of course, we share the intention of the bill that students and students should only receive travel allowances for the expenses they have actually incurred for their studies. We know that it is difficult for students to obtain accommodation at a reasonable price, especially in the large study cities. So for Enhedslisten it is absolutely crucial that students who do not live in the same city in which they study also have access to an active study life, where they can meet with the study group, sit in the university reading room and can skip the lecturer's office if they have questions. We therefore welcome the fact that the observations made in the proposal indicate that travel allowances should be granted for study activities which exceed the scheduled teaching hours. In the Enhedslisten, of course, we would have liked the government, with more people, not to have abolished so many educational institutions in the less densely populated areas, but since that is the case, it is only fair for the cohesion to have the pupils and students who are in rural areas properly admitted to reading and studying inside the cities where the large educational institutions are located. We do, however, share the concern expressed in many of the consultations, among others. from the University of Copenhagen, that the scheme will be very difficult to manage and provides a lot of bureaucracy. Another part of the proposal is that it should no longer be possible to receive travel allowances if students are in paid placements. It is unreasonable that students who are awarded an internship far from their place of residence should be placed at a disadvantage compared with their fellow students who are given an internship nearer to where they live. We think it should be possible to obtain a transport discount for all pupils and students who are internship. We are therefore critical of the draft law as a starting point, but we are looking forward to the work of the committee, and if we could change this with the internship, we can easily see ourselves in the proposal. But that requires a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131658	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131703	Thank you for the floor. Bill No. L 16 sets out to clarify the rules we now have for a transport discount, so that students do not receive compensation for transport when they have not transported themselves, but only receive it in cases where they have actually had an errand at their place of education. It is, of course, common sense that you should not have an allowance if there is nothing to prove. And in relation to the question raised earlier by the Alternative's rapporteur, the written submission states that the state saves 17 million. kr. in 2019 and 37 million; kr. from 2020 onwards. So that is also very sensible. This is about the fact that you only reimburse something when there is actually an occasion for it. Marcus Knuth has been in touch with even members of the Danish Parliament, because we also have to prove that we have actually moved between our residence and Christiansborg before we can get our driving reimbursed. That is very, very sensible, and now it will be the same for students. This is, of course, a proposal supported by the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131822	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131825	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur for the speech, and thank you to the rapporteur for paying attention to my question to the rapporteur of the Left before and for being a little more prepared than the rapporteur of the Left to know about those figures. My question is this: this is what the state saves. Does the rapporteur know how much the parties involved, such as the University of Copenhagen, will be burdened? I know that the rapporteur himself is the rapporteur for the debureaucratisation of the Liberal Alliance. They say it is difficult to manage and they say it will be enormously bureaucratic. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131905	Yes, that is in the sentence after the sentence I quoted, because there are less administrative consequences, and I have to refer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131915	Sir. Roger Courage Matthiasen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131919	So the rapporteur thinks that it is at least less than the 17/34 million and therefore the equation goes up? Or how am I supposed to understand the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131931	That's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131939	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106131950	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late. I have been allowed to stand today for Mrs Pernille Schnoor. L 16 has, of course, been well examined by the previous rapporteurs, and we agree that, of course, we must have a system that does not pay compensation when there is nothing to prove. Conversely, we also agree that the bias which has been geographically in Denmark should not have additional incentives to continue or have to stress the students further or to stress the administration further or to stress our educational institutions further with the bureaucracy that we have already built up a great deal of in our country, which I know the rapporteur for LA also very much agrees with. So what do we do? Is this a bill that makes it easier to be a student who makes it easier to live and study all over the country? That's a good question. So as a starting point we are critical together with Enhedslisten, and we would also like to have a change in relation to internships and transport when the internship is far from home. But we also need to ask the question of the scope. I agree that the bill must contain cheating, yes, and I agree that the legislative proposal must ensure that only what has to be reimbursed is reimbursed, but how large is it? I have not read it all through because, as I said, I am just a standin for Mrs Pernille Schnoor, so I will have to do that later in committee, but how many is it about? So I apologise if I stand here and I am ignorant, but at first sight it seems that we are shooting off some big guns here for something that might be dealt with in a different way. Well, in advance, there's a faith and a declaration of laws, so we don't believe in it, or is it just because it can be done more precisely? That's a good question, so I'll check it out, and I'm sorry if I wasn't that precise myself. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132202	There's a comment from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132205	I would just like to say to the rapporteur that money has been set aside for increased administrative costs. In other words, a great deal of money is being saved on this, and we have some questions for that too, but money has also been set aside for educational establishments and to meet the increased administrative costs that will be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132229	Thanks for the information. As I understand the rapporteur, it is already dealt with in the draft law that the Copenhagen University's objections are actually addressed here, and if that is correct, then we are already closer to being able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132245	Thank you, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132258	Thank you for that, President. We in the Radical Left are also generally in favour of ensuring that the transport discount that we grant to students is used for that very purpose, that is to say, transport in connection with being a student. Like the Social Democrat rapporteur, we still have a few questions. We need to be sure that we agree on us, who are behind this, that we ensure that students study and should study, even more places and at more times than exactly where they come to teaching, which is sometimes not very often, unfortunately; not because students do not come to teaching, but because there is not always so much teaching to come to. It is even more important, therefore, that they also study at other times and, of course, we should also be able to get a transport discount on that. I understand that too, but I would like to be sure of it. There has also been exchange of words in the debate so far in relation to the shift to a tax deduction. I would just like to suggest that we ensure that students receive adequate information and advice on this change, so that it does not become something that suddenly surprises students who are in paid work experience and also need transport. It's just that that information goes out to them before they suddenly realize that they don't get it. At the very end, I would just like to ask that we turn this over in the circle, so we're in on what we're dealing with here. I am also pleased to be able to clarify to the Alternative's rapporteur that the costs of this have been taken into account. I think we can support the proposal, but I just want the confirmation of the minister either now or in committee that we have understood it equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132532	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132536	It must be easy and inexpensive to come to your study when you are a student, because everyone must have good conditions to fit it, be to group work, be to hours and be part of an active study environment, no matter where you live in the country. Especially when you live in some of the places that are not as popular as Copenhagen, Århus and some of the other major cities, it is particularly important that we in the Folketing provide a very good framework for studying, even if you come from afar. This proposal contains various elements, which is why it has also been on the basis, when we read it in the SF, that it should at least not be harder as a student to attend to your studies, even if you live in a town that is a little far away from the studio. What the Ministry describes in the law is that there has been an allowance after one kilometre's rate of return • it is part of the current legislation • but that there has been an increase in the cost of what has been quite significant and that one now wants to change the law so that one no longer gets money after all days, but after the time one actually spends on the study. That brings a fairly substantial saving, and that makes sense. Of course, this must be done in a way that makes sense and that is easy for students and for educational establishments, and in the consultation answers several people also write that they really want to be involved in that work. I expect that they will be, otherwise we will at least ask why they have not been, because I think that if this is not to become a bureaucratic monster, it is important to ally with some of those who are actually going to use it. If you have received too much in compensation, then you will also have a legal basis to claim repayment. If you've got something you shouldn't have, it's very fair that you have to pay it back. I actually think I'm gonna spend the last of my speaking time talking a little bit about this paid internship, which makes me a little worried. In fact, it is also intended to remove a transport discount for students in paid placements. This will be done on the basis of the argument that then you have the same rules as in upper secondary education. However, a great many students in higher education have been compared with the upper secondary schools in paid internship and take advantage of this opportunity. They get a discount when they go to their internship. But because you are not the master of your internship, you can end up getting quite a long way to your internship. And when you suddenly have to pay for yourself, I think that, compared to today, it can feel like a pretty substantial cost for students, that is to say that you suddenly have to get up with so much money to get to your internship and that's not because you get so much in pay when you're in paid internship as a student. So I'm a little worried about that. Yes, you can then deduct it from taxes, but will the students do so, so they will be able to figure it out, or will it feel like a rather sharp decrease in student availability? What will that mean for them? Is it really the smartest thing to do it this way, or would it be better to say that they can't deduct it from taxes, but in return we decide that they get some transport discounts, like they do today? In any case, these are at least some of the things we would like to examine. We are in favour of the bill. We also believe that if you are going to spend this money on some other young people, it is good, but we need to know exactly what the consequences are. And I certainly lack a little knowledge of what this will mean for young people in paid work. So I hope that the Minister will be willing to take a look at this in committee, because if we are given a guarantee that the trainees who are in paid employment will not be left behind, then we think that this could be a very fine legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132940	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106132943	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and thank you for the information I received a moment ago. I know that the rapporteur cares a great deal about the opportunities for students in Denmark, and I know that the progress reform, etc. etc. is well spoken against. So it is important to be aware of whether this actually ensures that, for example, we have a good geographical spread in our internships and that our students experience that they can create the academic opportunities they want and need. So how much does that mean to the rapporteur? Is it something that could be a requirement, just as it is from Enhedslisten's side? I do not know if it was a requirement, but at least something that Enhedslisten would very much have liked to have changed in relation to the bill? or where is the rapporteur here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133034	At any rate, it is important for us that students who are in paid employment should not suddenly experience a large reduction in the amount of available money they have, because they already have little money. And Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen suggested that some kind of guidance be provided to ensure that they understand the legislation there is. I would also like to examine whether the law should be turned upside down, so that the discount instead of the tax credit was granted, or at least examine what works best for students. But I do hope to have that guarantee so that we can be in favour of the bill. And if not, I think, what the SF would do was to table an amendment to exactly that part of the law. But overall, I think that most of the law is common sense, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said. So it will be on the basis that we enter the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133123	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133124	Thank you for that and thank you for the clarification. Actually, there wasn't any more. I'm just getting up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133133	That's why, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen didn't get in. Then it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133142	Thank you for that, President. With this bill, we are amending the law on transport discounts for youth education and higher education. In particular, it lays down: up to target the scheme so that students only receive reimbursement for the days they actually travel to and from the place of education. As it is now, we have a scheme that provides mileage money for 5 days a week, regardless of whether there is actually travel activity between residence and place of education 5 days a week. This makes the scheme very favourable for special students with long journeys and few actual travel days. Of course, a study consists of more than just teaching, and therefore it is also an important part of the bill that the allowance will not be limited to days of planned teaching. There will also be the possibility of reimbursement for days when there is no scheduled education, but where the student goes to the place of education for example. to engage in group work. What will therefore be crucial is that the student has had transport between residence and place of education. The reason for the change is that there has been an unintended increase in the special cost of reimbursement by kilometre rate. The cost of mileage increased from 61.5 million. kr. in 2015 to 132,5 million; kr. in 2017. At the same time, we are now giving the right to demand that students should repay a corresponding amount if they have received too much money in kilometres. In implementing the scheme, the focus will be on digital support for the administration to the greatest extent possible and therefore as little bureaucratic as possible. As is the case today, students will also be able to obtain guidance at the place of study, so that they also have the opportunity to avail themselves of the scheme. It is also intended to lay down rules for repayment which are, as far as possible, equivalent to the rules applicable to the repayment of the SU. In the Conservative People's Party, of course, we think it is important that we have a good framework for students, but we also think it is quite reasonable that this draft law is being proposed, so we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133412	Thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133431	Thank you. This is my first reading as a minister, and indeed my first reading of a legislative proposal in general as a politician. And then it is a great pleasure to have put forward a legislative proposal on which several people have used the words common sense. I actually think that's the title of this bill: it's common sense. I would like to thank you for a good debate and some good comments and good questions. I fully agree that what we must do is to support all young people, wherever they live and wherever they wish to train, being equally entitled to do so. So it's a good arrangement we have. We need to spend money on students across the country so that they can transport themselves between their homes and their place of education. It is also very important because many students have a tight economy, and with this they have the opportunity to buy a train card with a discount so that they can just transport themselves. It is also reasonable that we have rules that those for whom taking a train or a bus is not an option, or it is very, very difficult, can receive compensation for carriage by car after a kilometre's journey. However, as has been said several times, common sense also means that this money must be spent sensibly, and the purpose of this has been that it is daily transport to the place of education that must be supported. But that is not the way the arrangements are set up today. That's why, with this bill, we're gonna start cleaning up, so we're gonna get some rules that fit the real world. So we set reasonable and reasonable limits. One word was mentioned in this debate which I would like to shoot down, and that is the word cheating. Nobody's cheated. There are some rules that make you just completely per. automatically, when you go on an education that you may live really far from, get for all days, although you may only need to be there 5 or 7 days with the way in which the training is organized. So we're not saying with this that somebody's been cheating. They have actually just used the rules, and they have once had the opportunity to say: Well I am only 5 days and not the 23 days or the 30 days. So we're the ones who need to make it a little easier and actually make this a sensible way for the students. Then there were a few other comments on the debate here. There was talk of bureaucracy and how simple this can be done. Well, the purpose of this is that it should be very, very simple, both for educational institutions and for students. So it becomes an easy digital solution where you go in and say: I've been at my place of education x number of days, and it's on faith and laws. Then there has been some debate about paid internship. I think we will go into this in greater detail in the committee work, but just a few comments: what we are doing is precisely, as was also said, that we are comparing those who are in paid internship in higher education with those who are in paid internship in youth education. And as it is today, it is actually double up. You can get a grant under the rules we are discussing today and you can get a transport allowance. What we are suggesting is that in the future you will only be able to obtain a transport allowance, and as far as I understand, there is therefore a certain parallelism between these two rules in that for the first 24 km you will get nothing. So it should be economically the same. So I agree with what was said by several of the rapporteurs, namely that we have to try with an advisory effort to do so so that those who are in paid placements cannot suddenly say that they thought they were receiving grants, because that is what they had heard from the other students. That is how it is often in the educational establishments that the other students have told about it and nobody has ever talked about a deduction and so we can actually ensure that the students, whom they may not always be so good at, are planning things a little better. Then there was the question of how many of these are involved. Well, if we look behind the figures, we can see that there are actually 750 people receiving subsidies for a journey over 300 km. And again, and that is probably a bit of a presumption: there are many who do this, namely take such a long journey 20-30 days a month. Then there was the question of whether it is all activities covered by this and who would like to confirm that yes, it is all activities. So we're not gonna tell you when you're gonna be on the program, that it's only those days you've been to class. No, these are the days when you feel there's a need for it. It may be project work at the school; it may be there is a good reading room that you would like to use. We're not gonna be judging that. I look forward to a continued good discussion on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133906	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133910	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for clarification and congratulations on the first reading. I have already been made much more comfortable in the treatment. I was also able to understand that we are not part of the SU conciliation group, and that is why perhaps some information has come out and has been forwarded to us. But when it becomes a digital solution to make it easy and accessible, I think it sounds really good. Just one concern about the involvement of those who want to be involved. Is this something that the Minister is also prepared for in the drafting of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133947	Yes, I can confirm that. We want to involve those who want to be involved, so that we ensure that this is done in a sensible way for those who need to use it here in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133957	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106133959	Thank you. Congratulations on the first bill. I've been a little preoccupied with this paid internship, and how it affects the financial situation of the students, whether they can find their way around it. And I think it is very good that the Minister says that the Ministry would like to look at guidance or make it clearer for students. However, the Minister also said that there is equal treatment with youth education, where there is a transport allowance, and that it is economically similar. However, one might just as well have equated the other way and said that in upper secondary education there must be a transport discount, so that there is a transport discount both in upper secondary education and in higher education, but then no deduction. Has there been any thought in the Ministry as to why one model has been chosen over the other if it goes straight up economically?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106134049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106134050	Well, the idea behind this has been to do it so that when you're in paid internship, you're actually out of that system. That's also why you're out of the SU system. You are part of the collective agreement with the employer, because there you are paid by the employer. And then it also fits into the rules we have in the equation law on deductions for transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106134115	Sir. Jacob Mark, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106134116	Thank you. In fact, I think that was a very good answer. And I would also like to hear: have you made such examples of what it will mean financially for a typical student in paid placement who will receive this from the situation that has existed to the situation that is coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106134138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106134139	Good question: back to SF's rapporteur. I don't know if you have. I would like to take that into the committee's work and see if we have done so and otherwise do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106134150	Thank you, Minister. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I can see that the Minister for Industry has arrived, but as the agenda is on today's agenda, we will not start until 1 p.m. 13:45, we're going to have to be punctual, so we're going to have a little break in three minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106134519	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106134532	Thank you, President. The draft law must include, inter alia: introduce a new EU directive replacing an old 2003 directive. This is the IORP directive, which in Denmark includes the rules on the so-called company pension funds, which manage part of Danes pension savings, and the bill concerns pensions for just over 40 billion. kr. However, at the same time as updating the directive in Danish law, a number of good Danish rules are being abolished which aim to protect pension customers in company pension funds. It is a question of reducing the provision for fair treatment of company pension fund members, removing the requirement for a safe basis and removing the requirement for a company pension fund to have a responsible actuarial. Although only a small part of the Danes are covered by these rules, the rules must of course be so reasonable that individual pension savers are not cheated by complicated rules or by what is worse. The position of the Social Democratic Party is that we would really like to be able to support such a proposal as this, but it is important for us that the Danish rules that exist can ensure that the company pension funds are still subject to rules of fairness and security and that there is still a requirement to have such a responsible actuarial. Why are we doing this? And what is the role of a responsible actuary? The current company pension schemes are such so-called commitment schemes, which correspond to civil servants' pensions, and they are determined on the basis of the Member's seniority. In contrast to a civil servant's pension, however, these are pensions which have been identified in the sense that there must be funds to ensure that the company pension fund can also cover the liabilities of insured persons. And all the calculations, and it is really somewhat complicated mathematics, are based on having the necessary and sufficient reserves to pay the pensions throughout the settlement period, and this also presupposes, as far as actuarial calculations are concerned, for example. how long one calculates that a pension customer's residual life is and something that some people have in control of the calculations. This is the role of a responsible actuary, among other things. In other words, to ensure that these calculations are carried out properly and a company pension fund has such typical rules for situations if there are not enough reserves to ensure that the customer is not placed at a disadvantage. Throughout this very technical construction, which is of course with company pension funds, it is also the case that the companies that have to deliver the money to ensure that the people who have drawn pensions can have their pensions can also go in and change the rules, and the rules they can change are very complicated matter. It is also important to have such a responsible actuary, which can monitor that things take place after a reasonable treatment, as is called in the legislation. If it is the case that new company pension schemes are to be set up, we also have a regulation today about the need to ensure that there are safe conditions to ensure that you as a pension customer are properly treated and that everything written in small print in a pension policy is also something that is correct, so that the customer knows what kind of pension you are drawing. And if you are a pension-holder, a pension-client, for example. If you want to change your pension composition, it must also be the case that some people can see and ensure that the choices you are faced with are also fair. That's all the government wants to flush out with the bathing water by removing these good Danish rules. Then why would the government want to remove these good Danish consumer protection rules? The reason for this is that the Left's own mantra states that Denmark must not over-implement EU directives. I would like to say that this case shows how glaringly intransigent it is to abolish rules designed to protect pension customers because you mistakenly believe that you can save some money. The truth is that if you save and cut away this responsible actuary, the auditors need more time to make sure that they can sign that this has been done properly. And what happens when an accountant spends more time? Then it will cost more money, which is why I do not really believe that the savings that the government is proposing will be made. So the bottom line is: Social democracy cannot support the bill as it stands. We must have the Minister for Industry in an open consultation where the Minister for Industry can decide whether this is right and reasonable. Then I have a large number of written questions and I hope to hear positive tones from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I hope that it will all result in us having some amendments tabled to this bill so that we can maintain that there is protection for these pension customers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135044	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135052	As the previous rapporteur has said, this is a law to replace another. According to the Government's reasons, the aim of the draft law is at least to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council from 2016. This is a review and follow-up of an earlier directive back from 2003. In the Danish People's Party, we agree that we must, of course, always try to show what is called due diligence, and we must also have rules that are not necessary, and we must also ensure that we do not make unnecessary over-implementation of new EU directives and regulations. In this particular case, however, it is actually a type or model of pension funds that was there before the previous directive. In other words, it is an institution model that has been there before the original directive came from the European Union. That is why we do not recognise the premise that it can be equated with other types of simplifications and ensuring the minimum implementation of EU legislation. As it is today, there are 17 company pension funds in Denmark, and that is not very many. They have about 12,600 members, and in fact only 2,500 of them remain in the labour market. Most importantly, it is also worth mentioning that they do not actually include new members in any of the existing company pension funds in Denmark. This is not to say that we cannot find that new company pension types of this type will establish themselves in Denmark, and therefore it is not a good idea, in the view of the Danish People's Party, to remove the need for sound foundations, for example in relation to the fact that some responsible actuarial should not be appointed in the companies concerned. We believe it is timely care to ensure that we do not undermine the quality of the current pension types, as this company pension fund is an example of where independent companies want to establish good, healthy social security for their employees and to take care of it. It's no secret that the largest of these corporations operating with this type of pension fund today is TDC, and they have about 7,500 of these. 12,600, which are all covered by the Danish company pension funds, and it would be unfavorable for them if we now go in and make some minimum implementations, as the Minister calls it, but which really do water down the quality of the already established pension models, as we see here today. So the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal on this basis, because we believe that we must at least secure those pension customers who, in good faith, have invested in these company pensions for many, many years. After all, some of them should expect to be able to receive payments in 40 and 50 years' time, namely those who are still on the labour market and who retire later. That is why it is also a good example of due diligence if we ensure that we do not undermine the quality and safety of the investments that lie there, and we believe that we will do so if we remove, for example, the rules on actuaries. So, first of all, we need to put these questions to the Minister. If the Socialists want to call for a conciliation, they are welcome to do so, but I think it might just be better at first to resolve this in a memorable way, and this is done traditionally in Denmark by means of dialogue, including political dialogue. So I hope that the Minister will respond to the reasons and concerns that have come from at least two parties so far. It may be that there will be more later and it will, in our view, be to show due care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135508	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135512	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. These were quite positive tones, and I would like to pop with the flag for that. It is nice to hear that the Danish People's Party also cares that we can make sure that these pension customers, who are already pensioners and who expect some money to be paid out, cannot be taken by the nose. Something that makes me have a greater fear is what we see at the moment, that is to say that we see some banks which, up until now, we may have had a rather naive perception of being able to behave properly, but where it has become quite obvious to all of us that they have apparently not been able to find out. Now here it is primarily about pension customers and former employees of the TDC; people who drove around and set up phones for people. The fact is that today the TDC is owned by a large foreign capital fund, Macquarie, I think it's called. And it's not always someone who behaves so well, we've figured it out too. So isn't the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also so sceptical about the fact that if this bill had just gone through, then TDC's former employees and current pension customers could be taken a little by the nose of this fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135617	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135618	As I understand it, when the last pensioner of those who are under this scheme and who are entitled to have their pension until the last day of breathing, breathes out, I almost said, there will probably be some final accounting to be done. Nowadays, pensions have been paid for some 41.5 billion. kr. in this scheme. And it is not small change, but of course there are many people who must have their livelihoods for many years to come. But you can't avoid thinking, too, like Mr. Thomas Jensen also does what must then happen on the day when the estate is to be made up and how much money will be left. But it's out of history, it's well advanced, we acknowledge that. But in this situation, of course, you do not feel comfortable with the fact that there are companies like Macquarie, for example, which is an investment company, which I know owns about half of the TDC. So that's a different side of the matter, and I'm gonna have to. Thomas Jensen then opened the door to the conciliation which the rapporteur has now called for. I do not want to interfere with that, but we also recognise and share the fundamental concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135731	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135732	Thank you. I also look forward to the dialogue that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby has set up for us to have with the minister in this case. I'd like to ask Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby about something concrete. Both parties simply want to maintain these special rules. So if it is the case that we cannot have a good dialogue with the Minister and get the Minister to put it forward for himself, is the Danish People's Party prepared to table some amendments at second reading of the bill jointly and perhaps with some of the other parties here in the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135803	After all, I have been in here for 14 years, and I know it is not unusual for an amendment to be tabled before the second reading and even before the third reading. I certainly do not reject that. I am just saying that I would like to appeal first of all to the good practice of making political compromises. And that's one of the things you do. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135834	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106135841	As has already been mentioned, this bill implements the so-called IORP II directive. It aims to ensure a high level of protection and safety for pension schemes. The draft law basically means that we will have a new law on company pension funds which will replace the current law on supervision with the same. What does that even mean a little more earthy? This means that we are implementing the new directive in Danish legislation and that we are strengthening the requirement for management and management of company pension funds. At the same time, the law guarantees the legal basis for good information to pension recipients about their scheme. The proposal takes a number of general considerations into account: removing prudential barriers to cross-border business and ensuring what is in modern Danish called good governance and risk management, i.e. sound operation and sound principles of work, ensuring clear and relevant information for members and pension recipients, and ensuring that supervisory authorities have the tools necessary for effective supervision of pension funds. And yes, as the Socialist rapporteur also stressed, we are also removing a number of examples of Danish over-implementation of EU rules. We do so in a way because we think it is reasonable that we should always be critical of the places where we have chosen to overimplement. We believe that the new directive raises the level of protection in general, and that is why it is specifically proposed as a Danish proposal that it should be removed with a responsible actuarial. This does not mean that the task is going away, as one has a little impression of, because with the new directive and the legislative proposal as it stands, there is a requirement that a statement of pension provisions be made and that they should be certified by an actuarial. However, the proposal does indeed imply that there should be no legal requirement for a responsible actuarial. But it is not the case, of course, that the task of ensuring that there is the money in the pension fund that should be there and that things are done right is lost. It is only the demand for a responsible actuarial to be removed. It is a Danish overimplementation that we remove. So basically it is an update of the legal basis as a result of a directive. We think that a quite reasonable balance has been struck which ensures good and reassuring protection for pension savers' assets, and, as others have said, 17 company pension funds, which probably cover around 1%. of the entire pension area. The large occupational pensions are even more regulated according to what is known as Solvency II, where the requirements for protection are considerably higher. In fact, there is even the possibility in the directive that we could relax the rules even more and could exempt the very small company pension funds with less than 100 members. That is where we have chosen to say that we basically want a high level of protection. There may be some of the requirements that can be rolled out to a slightly smaller extent against the very least, but this will be clarified in the further process when a number of the notices are to be drawn up. But basically we think that this is a quite sensible proposal, and we naturally support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140225	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140228	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Now that we have all been offended by Danske Bank, Nordea and others who have not been able to figure out how to behave properly in relation to money laundering and to keep order in their own house, I would just like to ask whether it is not also causing something in the rapporteur in relation to company pensions. They may be people who may have worked in the TDC for a full working life and who are now retired; they have a pension which they expect to be fully controlled in relation to how it should behave; and if so, they will go in and make some changes in it, for example. If they want a little more money to be paid out, it can be so in the future if this proposal is adopted in relation to the calculations they are being submitted and the options they are being presented, that no one has been aware of it and has ensured that it is fair and reasonable. Can it not make the rapporteur think: it is probably very clever that we have someone who has his hand on a hot plate and is like ambassador, lawyer for the pensioner, pension client in such a case here? Is it not a matter of concern to the rapporteur that we can remove some of the safety net under each pension customer by adopting this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140352	But basically, the whole directive, which is, of course, the main basis of this proposal, aims to increase the protection of members of company pension funds. That is basically what is happening, that is to say, that we are lifting protection, that we are making greater demands on management. There are a number of restrictions contained in the directive. And on the basis of this we say: when we now generally raise the level, we have a Danish overimplementation in relation to having to have a responsible actuarial. We can then do without it now because we generally raise the level. And there I think we should perhaps be a little more focused on the fact that it is not the case that the tasks go away; there is still a demand for an actuarial to be used, but a Danish demand for a responsible actuarial to be carried out, we remove, and I think that is a very reasonable balance in ensuring that we do not impose unnecessary burdens on the company pension funds and at the same time ensure a high level of security for Members.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140458	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140459	The hand on the heart: if you adopt this bill that we are dealing with today, as it has been presented, will the protection of a pension customer in such a company pension fund be better or worse when we remove good Danish rules that really make sure that the individual pension holder is secure? Will they get better or worse if this bill is passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140526	Basically, I think we're raising the level of protection with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140528	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140533	Thank you. I would actually like to ask a little bit about something a little more fundamental. The previous rapporteur may have also mentioned this, but the rapporteur says that the purpose of this directive is to remove barriers to cross-border activities and then create a European market for pension solutions. And after everything we've been through in the last few weeks, I can ask myself: is that really what we want? Do we really want to create some European pension giants who will compete and outperform the local solutions and models we have had in Denmark with great success, by the way? So, once we've seen how these financial giants have all behaved lately, isn't there any reason to try to protect a little more about the pension funds and pension models we have in Denmark rather than this eternal story that we're just going to have a European market for these financial services? Should it not now be time for some reflection as to whether this is the way we want to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140641	Basically, I think it is an advantage when we strengthen competition. This generally gives us, as consumers, better choice, sharper prices, so I am fundamentally in favour of competition. In the Danish labour market, it is an agreement that determines where you have your pension savings, and I have to say that I am leaving it to the social partners to agree on this. But if there are some employees in one company who think that another model could be interesting, yes, I would also like to give them the freedom to make that decision. However, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party explained so well, it is a very, very small form of pension and it is decreasing because the other models in the Danish occupational pension system are the common ones and those that become the new ones when new agreements are made. So maybe we'll make legislation that has an expiration date when the existing company pension funds finally run out of members.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140751	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140753	Yeah, you better hope so. However, when you read the consultation answer from Insurance & Pension and, as such, also the Minister's answer to it, you might get a little worried. Because what at least parts of the industry want is for this law to have a much wider scope, that is to say, that pension funds outside the corporate pension area must also be allowed to come under this directive rather than under the Solvency II directive; that is something we reject in the first place, but it is written that if competition from outside will be of some sort, then we have to look at it. And then we are moving into other areas of our pension market. Can the rapporteur of the Left guarantee that it is certainly not something that the Left will help to ensure that when it is implemented, it is because it concerns a small and perhaps extinct part of the pension market?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140845	The bill concerns company pension funds, and that's why we make those rules. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, there is even an opportunity to relax it further in the directive for company pension funds with less than 100 members, and that is where we choose to proceed on the basis of the same rules. There are so few things that can be said to be dosed slightly in terms of volume, but basically it is true that you only choose to take these rules and pass them on to the entire occupational pension sector; we have chosen not to do so because the Solvency II rules provide better protection for Danish pension savers. In the Left, therefore, we think it is extremely important that the Danes should be able to trust that when they pay a fairly large proportion of their pension, there are, of course, also tough demands that ensure that the money is there and is properly remunerated when they retire.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140938	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106140958	As has also been said, this bill is, after all, an implementation of an EU directive, IORP, and you can start by asking yourself why it is actually that this should be in EU law, so this is really something that we cannot deal with through Danish legislation, but which must be subject to common European rules. If you want to do so, and if the government has also supported this directive, it is for the reason that the previous rapporteur mentioned that you want to create a cross-border market for these pension funds in Europe. I just think it is worth asking ourselves whether this is what we want, whether it is what we need, whether we need larger players across borders in the financial sector, or whether what is really needed, after what we have seen in recent times, is more relocation, where we have a financial sector that we can manage, which we can monitor, which we can see through, which we may even have a democratic influence on. But that is not what this directive wants. The old song goes on that big is good, and competition, where the big can outperform the little ones, is even better. That is the reason for this directive. It will then have consequences. It is true that, as a starting point, it affects only a very small part of our pension customers • around 1%, I think • because it concerns what is called corporate pension funds. For them, however, there are clear deteriorations, there are clear deteriorations in consumer protection, there are fewer demands for diversification of investment, which, as others have said, are removed, the demand for a responsible actuary, which, according to the consultation answers, has provided a certain degree of security and security. As far as the rules are concerned, it is unclear what training should be given to the person responsible for the role previously assumed by the actuary. There are a certain number of forms of member protection removed, and some internal democratic structures would initially be interfered with. I can see that the Minister has accepted some of the criticisms, and I think that is a good thing. It is so problematic in itself that there is this series of deteriorations in the proposal, but what I find very worrying is to read the consultation answer from Insurance & Pension, which, after all, envisages extending the scope of the law beyond the corporate pension funds, that is to say to cover far more pension customers and thus to include them in this much more uncertain and risky regulation regime and thus to expose it to even more so-called international competition, where we risk even more complex and opaque financial systems. It is a good thing that the Minister says 'no' in his reply, that this cannot be the case in the first place. However, I think that the consultation answer also opens up that if it turns out later that other European pension funds will use this directive to try to penetrate the Danish market, one must also be prepared to allow Danish pension funds to come under the same directive. I am concerned about that, and it also shows me that it is a mistake. I do not remember which parties originally supported this IORP directive. So the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal. We are, of course, prepared to support some changes in this, but basically we are simply opposed to the whole idea that we should have a more complex cross-border market for financial products. We simply do not believe that it serves the citizens. We do not believe that it serves democracy and the rule of the people. We believe that we are going the opposite way with our financial sector in the coming years, and we hope that the scandals that we have heard week after week in recent times will help to rethink across political divisions the perception that has been of what financial sector we should have over the past decades, focusing on what has been called consolidation and competition, but whose purpose or effect has been to concentrate ownership on ever fewer groups with a sea of business areas and extremely opaque business practices, with the result that it has become harder and harder for politicians as well as ordinary citizens to understand what is going on and to deal with it and regulate it politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106141457	It was sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no questions or comments. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106141508	Thank you. The proposal is intended to implement new EU legislation for corporate pension funds, that is to say pension funds which cover only a single enterprise. This is not very important in Denmark as it is a relatively small proportion of occupational pensions in Denmark that are managed through a company pension fund. Other cross-sector pension funds are governed by a different set of rules. The proposal is much more important in other European countries where the use of company pension funds is much more widespread. The rules that are being changed are of minor importance. A little changes are made to the requirements of management and management of company pension funds. The intention remains to ensure an appropriate balance between the protection of members of company pension funds and the implementation of directives. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106141602	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106141610	Thank you. I'm not going to go through this whole proposal. I think it was very well examined by the Social Democrat rapporteur. What is always the question when we talk about the implementation of directives is what some say we should be careful not to overimplement. After all, we should not under-implement or implement completely wrong with the systems that already exist. There we in the alternative think that there is something very worrying in this particular proposal on consumer protection, which is also highlighted in the consultation answers and which we clearly need to look at. So, as a starting point, we are not positive about the proposal as it stands because there are simply too many outstanding issues, especially about consumers, in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106141655	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106141705	From a radical point of view, we are positive about having common EU standards in this area. In principle, we see it as a protection for workers who move freely across borders, that there are minimum requirements to be met and that you can be sure of holding, no matter where you live or work in the European Union. Then we agree, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also said, that it is perhaps a little strange that the government has chosen to take a slightly more restrictive approach to this area than has been the case in the past in this quite limited area. This is an affordable issue, so you can also ask yourself how much bureaucracy it is that you save on this one percent, by not having to appoint an actuarial if there is the concern out there that it may mean relaxing security. So we would also call on the government to consider cooperation with the parties of the Folketing and to find a friendly arrangement on it so that we can obtain a broad majority in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106141809	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106141825	Today we are discussing the draft law on company pension funds, and it is an implementation of an EU directive. The new legislation thus replaces Danish legislation. This is a comprehensive legislative proposal that we have before us. The SF cannot support the draft law as it stands, and we have a number of questions that we would like to ask in committee. This is evident, for example. It is clear from the observations made on the draft law that the existing location and distribution rules in relation to the investments of the company pension funds are not continued in the new law and that these rules have been perceived as restrictive by the industry. That is why we would like to hear from the Minister how it is ensured that the risk to pension customers' savings will not increase if the current rules are abolished. It is also a bit like that, my colleagues from the Social Democratic Party and the Enhedslisten, among others. I didn't say anything about it. It is also apparent from the comments made on the draft law that, in the case of amendments to the Staff Regulations and Regulations, the protection of minorities in the past is not continued in the new law. I think that the Danish People's Party also said that it does not seem very logical to have consumer protection. Then we would also like the Minister to respond to and to assess whether the new law compared with existing legislation in certain respects would weaken the requirements of the risk management of the sector and/or the supervisory capacity of the FSA in relation to the current rules. Finally, we also believe that there is a problem and a mix of interests. In any case, we must have asked that question, because I do not see it clearly from the draft law. What if a bank provides good or better conditions for the company's loans, in return for a lower level of remuneration for pension savers? That is why it is at least crucial for us that employees have some sort of control over investments. There are quite a lot of concerns for us, and we see some big risks, including insurance & pension consultation answers. I agree with what the Social Democratic Party also said, namely that we need to take whatever form it should take; a consultation or some questions; to have clarified some of these things, because it seems that we are replacing an excellent set of rules with something that is worse and more risky. And then I would also like to join with Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted's comments from the Enhedslisten that we are already struggling with these financial supermarkets, just at national level, and we are in danger of seeing some financial supermarkets at European level. There are risks to this and we do not really think that the benefits of having a larger market in this area outweigh the risks. And finally, we're also worried about the slide argument in this... what's next? So from the SF we are very sceptical about this bill and we believe that there are quite a lot of questions to be answered by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106142155	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106142205	Thank you. The legislative proposal here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, is, after all, an implementation of the European Parliament and Council directive on the supervision of pension funds for occupational retirement provision, which is then introduced into Danish law by the legislative proposal we are now considering. After all, most Danish pension providers are regulated by the so-called Solvency II regulation, and the draft law here therefore only affects a very limited number of pension providers in Denmark and, in fact, only around 1%. of the pension customers. However, as the company pension fund scheme takes up a lot in other EU countries, much more than in Denmark, it has been thought that there was also a need to create common EU rules, among others. in view of the financial crisis in 2008, because the arrangements actually have a not insignificant role in relation to the financing of the overall European economy. And then it is also to create some consumer protection that goes back into the European Union. However, the vast majority of pension customers in Denmark are subject to these Solvency II rules, and although this directive also suggests that some of the Danish pension customers could have been moved over under the IORP regulation of these new rules, which is less restrictive, then it has been decided to keep the current customers under the Solvency II rules, and I think it is actually a very sensible balance that has been found there, which we can of course support. Of course, we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106142347	Thank you. Then no more rapporteurs have asked to speak. Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106142403	Thank you and thank you for your comments on the bill. It is a legislative proposal implementing the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. That is what we call the IORP II directive. It is a draft law which replaces the existing law on the supervision of company pension funds, which inter alia: implemented a former IORP II Directive from 2003. Like the law in force, the bill will apply to 17 company pension funds, which together amount to approx. 1% of the Danish pension market. The majority of the 17 company pension funds are very small and in liquidation, and they have quite a few members. So in Denmark, the rules relate to a smaller part of the providers who manage the Danish pension savings, and this is because we in Denmark have decided that the vast majority of the Danish pension providers are regulated by the so-called Solvency II rules, i.e. another set of rules which in the main provide more protection for pension savers. This provides a uniform and in a number of areas also more comprehensive protection for the majority of Danish pension savers. At European level, a significantly higher proportion of total pension savings is covered by the IORP regulatory framework. The new IORP II Directive has introduced a review of the rules for occupational pension funds. The audit is justified by the need at European level to improve the protection of pension savings managed by occupational pension funds. In a European context, these pension funds play a rather greater role than they do in Denmark, among others. in relation to the provision of support for ageing populations. Danish company pension funds are already subject to rules which are intended precisely to ensure the protection of pension funds. The company pension funds, like other pension providers, are subject, inter alia, to: solvency requirements, governance requirements and rules of good practice. The main adjustments to the draft law concern the implementation of the Directive's stricter requirements for the management and management of pension funds and the new requirements to provide Members with clear and relevant information on their pension schemes. In drafting the bill, the focus has been on ensuring proportionality in the regulatory framework by maintaining good membership protection on the one hand and removing burdens from corporate pension funds on the other, where this has now been possible and justified. Therefore, for example, the draft law does not continue to apply location and dispersal rules in relation to the investments of the company pension funds. The draft law will instead provide for a principle-based requirement for company pension funds to invest in accordance with the so-called Prudent Personal Principle, such as: implies that the assets must be invested so that the long-term interests of the members as a whole are safeguarded in the best possible way. The draft law does not extend the current requirement for the company pension funds to take on a responsible actuary, and this is due to the fact that there are other rules of an actuarial nature in the directive which otherwise satisfy the needs. I was able to hear that there were some questions on that during the debate, and I would therefore like to clarify that a little. It is the case that, according to the rules in force, company pension funds must have an actuary in charge, such as: may arrange for the actuarial conditions of the company pension fund and report to the board of the pension fund. The draft law aims to strike an appropriate balance between the protection of members of pension funds and the need to ensure a directive-by-law implementation, in other words to avoid over-implementation. Several of the rapporteurs made that sound bad. It's not. After all, it is for the benefit of customers that pension funds do not have too much trouble and too much expenditure. So when we try to keep up with claims against pension funds, it is basically not for the sake of pension funds. Then it is because we want the Danes to make the most of their pension savings. After all, all the expenditure on pension funds means that the Danish pension savings will be reduced, and we are not interested in that. So the aim has been to remove over-implementation and lower the level of economic and administrative burdens on pension funds. The directive contains some other rules. Although there will not be an actuary of responsibility, the directive contains rules which ensure that actuarial calculations are made anyway. This ensures that actuarial competences are used. For example: there is a requirement to establish three key functions, including the establishment of a specific actuarial function, such as: is responsible for monitoring and calculating the actuarial conditions of the pension fund. That is why we have then considered that the demand we have had so far for an actuary of responsibility will no longer be necessary. However, this does not mean that actuarial competences disappear from the company pension funds. In our opinion, therefore, this is not a deterioration for Members. Of course, we are completely open to discussing this. I have listened to the fact that there seemed to be a desire to maintain a responsible actuarial. We would very much like to have a dialogue on this in the future. I would just like to clarify to the rapporteurs what is in the draft law, in order at least to be sure that everyone understands that there are still actuarial obligations for the company pension funds, and then we will have to see where we can then agree, so that there can be a majority in the Folketing that can support it. However, if we are to make an amendment in order to meet a wish that may be in the Chamber, then of course we are happy to do so. It is not something that will bring the government's resting pulse much over 45, I would say, because this will be a rather small change compared to the legislative proposal that we have put forward. I think, as the assessment has just been from the officials of the Ministry of Industry, that we can make a change which means that there is still a genuinely responsible actuarial and which also complies with the directive. It is clear that this will mean a small increase in the cost of pension funds and thus a slightly lower return on pensions, but if that is what you want, then it is in the petty section, compared to what we need to change. So I definitely think we can find a solution to that. I will, of course, take the initiative in discussing this here before we reach the second reading. I actually think that's what I wanted to say. There is a little that we will have to deal with in the next few days before the second reading. Of course, I am also happy to answer any questions that may be raised now or later during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143146	We have a number of brief comments to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143151	Thank you. I have two questions. Let me start with what I said myself, namely the small opening in the Minister's consultation note, in relation to the fact that other parts of our pension sector will be able to come under these rules at a later stage. After all, the Minister himself writes in the hearing that it is a much more uncertain regime with much less customer protection that they will then come under. So I would just like to hear from the Minister very clearly here whether the government does not have any plans to go in that direction and that it is not at all in the direction we are taking any steps, in other words with the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143233	Well, we have no plans for the rest of the pension sector to be subject to the rules that will now apply to company pension funds. As I have also replied at the hearings, it will require a new amendment of the law. What we are discussing today, and what this bill is about, is exclusively company pension funds. So I do not think that is the best reason for voting against this bill, that is to say that we are afraid that we will perhaps come up with another bill later, because then you can just vote against it. I mean, this is all about company pension funds; and no, we have no plans for it to apply to the rest of the pension market.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143311	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143312	Fortunately, there are other good reasons to vote against. But my second question is that it is also stated in the consultation note that the Danish Employers' Association, among other things. I have had a desire for a change in relation to the tax rules, which means that when the money is returned, i.e. if the money is returned to the sponsor company, there has been a 40% tax, and it is now proposed by the government, as far as I can understand, reduced to 25%. I just want to know if it's gonna be part of this bill or if it's gonna be a later bill on the Tax Committee. That's one thing. Secondly, what are the economic consequences? And the third is: will it have any impact on other areas if you make the rule here? Surely you can't have a tax rule for exactly company pension funds that doesn't apply to others? Well, I'd like to hear a little bit about the consequences of this, i.e. whether they're well thought out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143403	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143404	Actually, I'm not 100% sure I understood the question. That is why I would like to reply to it in writing here afterwards. I'm just hoping that sir... Pelle Dragsted is gonna send that question about the tax rules over that, too, I think I'm gonna have to get the tax minister over it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143420	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143422	Thank you to the Minister for opening up a dialogue on this proposal. In other words, the Social Democratic Party takes the view that it is best if we can adopt broad economic policy proposals so that the sector knows that it has stable framework conditions. So I also hope that the invitation will come to the Social Democratic Party in order to get this bill in place. I took note of the fact that the Minister spoke about obtaining a majority, for which there is no need for social democracy, but I think that we should now sit down together and ensure that we adopt a good law. The Minister has focused on responsible actuaries. We have several of us who have done so in our rapporteur's speeches but, in addition, there has also been a focus on the fair treatment of pension customers. It's a concept that's also being removed with this bill. And then there is the question of reassuring conditions. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is open to us looking at all the aspects of the bill that I have just mentioned here, i.e. responsible actuaries, reassuring conditions and fair treatment of the pension customer, when we need to make this bill even better, so that there is broad support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143527	I think it certainly has to be a little more specific, in other words what we think should be more reassuring, because we ourselves believe that we have put forward a legislative proposal which gives us a sense of comfort. So in such general terms we will probably not invite a debate on how it will be reassuring for pension savers, because we believe there is. However, I would very much like to discuss with the Socialist Group the specific issue raised so far about the actuary in charge. The Socialists are always invited; as long as the Socialists continue to behave constructively, we always invite.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143604	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143605	Just to tell the minister that safe relationships are such a concept within this complex, so it's not something I just stand like this and define soft or wide-ranging. This is a matter which the Minister is in the process of abolishing, and I would actually just like to appeal for that to be maintained. My question here the second time is: does the Minister not actually agree with the hand at the heart of the hearing parties who say that if you remove this responsible actuary, then the auditors who have to approve these company pension funds will need more time to be sure that everything has been done correctly, and therefore the auditor costs will rise, even if there is no longer an expense for a responsible actuary, and in this way the one that saves, which is the argument for abolishing these things, will actually disappear?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143651	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143652	The hand on the heart: I do not agree with that. After all, we believe that account has been taken of the fact that actuarial competences and functions will continue to exist in the company pension funds, and that is why we do not believe that it is correct that it will ultimately cost more to pension funds. Well, I guess it goes without saying that we wouldn't have written it this way if we'd thought it was better in another way. But we are happy to take the debate. After all, it is not the world's biggest issue that we think that there should be actuarial competences and a function, and that others think that there should be a responsible actuarial. It is not a big difference, so we take a quiet and calm debate on that and find a solution to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143740	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143742	Thank you. One of the points I raised in my speech was whether there might be a mix of interests here. And, of course, it is quite fine if the Minister cannot reply to it from the platform, but must come back with a written reply. But can the Minister deny that there cannot be a kind of tradeoff or a trade, so that a company gets some advantageous terms in return for more risky terms for pension savers, or generally inferior conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143820	I simply need to clarify what exactly the questioner thinks. Is it in relation to the legal process whether there should be an industry that has been given some particularly good conditions in this bill, or what exactly is the questioner's opinion? I think the questioner will have to ask again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143838	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143839	If, as a consequence of the bill, a bank provides particularly favourable terms to a company in return. I mean, I know it's on the edge of the bill, and I also said in my speech that I wasn't sure, so I couldn't read whether it could be a risk at all. But is it the case that the employees, the pension savers, also have an impact on investment, so that a tradeoff is not possible, where a bank provides particularly good conditions to a company, against the fact that there are more risky or deteriorating conditions for employees, who are also pension savers?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143923	I shouldn't think so immediately. So the protection of minorities, which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also mentioned in her speech, has continued. So immediately my answer will be no. I would like to go into it further if we could perhaps have a more specific example of whether or not something could be done. Then we would very much like to respond to that in more concrete terms. But my immediate answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143954	Then it's Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106143956	Thank you, sir. President. My question is a little bit about the economics of it, because it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party are sceptical about this and that is also what I expressed scepticism about whether this is in favour or not for the employees who have invested in such a type of pension savings that they can get here. The comments on the draft law, paragraph 10, state the economic consequences if this bill is passed, as the government has put forward, that business can have new administrative burdens for 4 million. kr., and that this could have new economic consequences in business terms for 10 million. kr. Similarly, it says about the economic consequences for the state, municipalities and regions that it has no impact on municipalities and regions and we can calculate this but it is also very interesting, I think, that according to the state's expenditure under the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority it will be such an expense that the task cannot be honoured within the existing framework. It also states that it is proposed to increase the contribution of a new measure by covering it through the existing legal basis in Chapter 22 of the Financial Business Act. It does not say how many million kroner it costs, but it must be assumed that it is a relatively large amount since resources cannot be found within the current framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144118	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144119	I cannot give a better estimate on a stand-by basis than what is already there, so I must answer that in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144132	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144133	In other words, the government is putting forward a bill which is not known about the financial consequences of the work of the FSA. What we are just used to here in the Folketing is that it says what it has to do with economic consequences and, incidentally, other positive and negative consequences. And it's not unimportant that things cost. The minister says that this administratively is a good thing because it gets easier and it gets better for consumers and so on. But as I see it, it becomes a worse product and it also becomes a higher price. I therefore think that the Minister should perhaps examine why the amount does not appear in the draft law's observations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144214	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144214-2	It should be remembered here that where we have some freedom of action, such as Parliament, is in relation to whether we are over-implementing the directive. We must then have the burden of some of the rules with which we have no freedom of choice in relation to them. What we can discuss is such a thing as continuing to have a responsible actuarial and other form of over-implementation on the Danish side. And in relation to the overimplementation we have set up here, we are down to some rather small amounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144248	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export, and if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144300	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144316	The proposal here aims to update and adjust our justice law in a number of areas. One of the very positive elements seen with social democratic spectacles is the exemption of legal fees in cases of co-maternity in the same way as in cases of paternity today. Because, of course, there must also be equality here, and that is why we are very enthusiastic about the proposal here. The draft law also contains other important elements, both with new provisions and also adjustments of a more technical nature. We strengthen legal certainty for judges, who are given a warning by the President of the Court, so that in future judges can complain about these warnings to the Special Complaints Court, the possibility for state authorities to be represented by their own civil servants, and certain provisions of the Code of Procedure will be adjusted to bring them into line with the manner in which civil proceedings are dealt with following the introduction of the Court's case portal. The rules on the competence of maritime and commercial law to deal with EU trade mark bans and injunctions and Community designs are adjusted, and then we repeal the rule that the National Police Commissioner keeps a list of interpreters, as that system is no longer relevant. So it is a nice blanket of many different elements, and I have to say that we in the Socialist Group can support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144450	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144459	Thank you. It is, of course, a proposal which contains a great many different initiatives from the Minister for Justice. I have chosen to address what I think is the most important bit of this proposal, and that is, of course, to increase the capacity of the state to be represented in civil cases by its own employees. Nowadays, there are opportunities in this area, but if you look up the bill in the section dealing with the economic consequences, you can read with. Then you can move on and find out what the state is actually paying for legal protection to this day, and somewhere it is a dilemma. Because we need to ensure that our state has proper means of defending itself in these matters, it must also be right and fair, and it must also be financially responsible. So there are several balances in this question. With the proposal, the government then proposes that the state should be able to be represented to a greater extent by employees of the State or the various authorities of the State. We actually think it might be a good idea to do it this way, which is why we are also going to support that part of the bill. It is no secret that the state spends around 0.5 billion. kr. Every year to be protected, and that's this dilemma. For, of course, we need proper protection, but there is also a need to take account of the citizens when, as a state, we meet the citizens in these matters, and there is, of course, the essential argument here that the cost of the state's own legal assistance has increased over the last few years. And I think that is definitely something we should be concerned about, or at least look at, and have a very careful eye on whether these costs will continue. Another thing is that the rule on the National Police Commissioner's list of interpreters is abolished, and that is how you read the introduction to the proposal, which may look very drastic. But I do not think it is, because in reality, you have just made an agreement that makes it go somewhere else, so that part of the bill is also really fine. Then there is the proposal for co-maternity and that part sounds really nice and really positive, but we are going to ask a few questions about that in the Committee on Legal Affairs just to clarify it. However, as a starting point, we very much welcome the proposal, which we expect to be able to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144727	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144738	Thank you. As the only country in the world, we have a system of a private lawyer, a private law firm that has a monopoly on state affairs. It brings revenue close to 0.5 billion. kr. This is something we should be wondering about in a society which, moreover, is doing everything possible to liberalise things. But now, there may be other circumstances when we talk about the state. It should not be a secret that it is the government's aim to reduce fixed turnover with the Attorney General, and this is one of the means for it. According to the proposal, it will therefore be the case that state authorities are given the opportunity to hire people who are intended to appear in court. It should preferably be able to keep some of the cases at home from the Chamber Attorney's Office, and I would say that there must be a lot of people employed if this is to be an expense. Because if you have to match the bills from the DA, there's room to hire a lot of people. These are state authorities, and I note that I am going to ask a few questions during the committee procedure, namely that, as far as I can see, this does not include state public limited companies. For example, if you take such things as Financial Stability, the possibility does not exist. It is a limited liability company and is therefore not covered by this legislation, and therefore the possibility that Financial Stability may employ a person to conduct legal proceedings instead of using external lawyers will not exist today. It may seem a little weird, but I'm sure there's a good explanation for that. In general terms, in any case, the Left can fully support the proposal. This will certainly reduce state expenditure to a certain extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144932	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106144941	This bill consists of a number of very different elements which do not necessarily have anything to do with each other. I would just like to say, because I think it should also be mentioned in this debate, that a problem that we often encounter when there is a draft law from the Minister for Justice is that all sorts of things that do not necessarily have anything to do with each other are piled up. This means that we often have to ask for the bill to be split up. I know that there are other parties who do. So I'd start by saying that. If you look at the hearings, it is in particular the proposal to extend the right of state authorities to be represented in court with their own employees who face opposition. And the opposition does not come only from those lawyers who, if the bill is adopted, are in danger of losing revenue. It also comes from the national courts, the Maritime and Commercial Court and the Court of Justice, which warns against the fact that the employees in court may not have the same experience and professionalism as lawyers. In the Enhedslisten we are in fact sensitive to that criticism, so although we are fundamentally positive about extending the right of state authorities to allow employees to appear in court, there is reason to follow the area closely. I would like to ask the Minister to indicate whether he is willing to include a follow-up procedure or a review clause in the legislative proposal so that we can change course if the experience of relaxed access proves to be poor. The draft law provides for better redress for judges who receive a warning. It provides greater legal certainty, so we support that part. We also warmly support the fact that cases of co-maternity are exempted from court fees in line with cases of paternity. This is an absolutely necessary and much-needed equality, which we naturally support. The draft law also provides for the abolition of the rule of police interpretation. We have no objection in the Enhedslisten to abolishing this interpretation list, but I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the problems of interpretation in our legal system are not solved by it. There is still much to be done. The table of interpretations by the National Police is problematic because it is not publicly available and because the public interpreters cannot assess the quality of the interpreters on the list on the basis of the list. Several studies have shown over the years that the quality of interpretation by the police, by the courts and by the immigration authorities is • to put it nicely • extremely fluctuating. There is a lack of professionalism, there is a lack of interpretation ethics, and there is often a lack of basic language skills in at least one of the two languages which are interpreted between them. Now the interpretation chart has been replaced by an invitation to tender, but the problem with public procurement is that the price is higher than the quality. Whether this has been the case here will, of course, become apparent when the authorities have gathered the experience of the company that won the supply. The basic problems of the quality of interpretation in the public sector will not be solved until we have a certification system that applies to all interpretations in the public sector, both in the judicial system and in the police sector, but also in the rest of the public sector, for example. in health care. Having said that, I can say in relation to the overall legislative proposal that we in the Enhedslisten are positive. We look forward to a reaction from the Minister on a revision clause. Otherwise, we are just going to follow the committee procedure. Then I have promised to greet the Radical Left and say that they are also in favour of the bill, but that they will send some written questions to the Minister, who will decide their final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106145326	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106145334	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing, as several others have also said, contains a large number of rather diverse elements. The main element is to strengthen the possibility for state authorities to face civil proceedings with their own employees. It makes quite good sense for the authorities with the bill here to be able to hire people with the task of facing civil trials for the given authority. This is a matter of improving the efficiency of state resources, and I think that is a good thing. The draft law also strengthens legal certainty for judges and for judges, among others. They are now also being given the opportunity to complain to the Special Appeals Tribunal about a warning given by the President of the Court. Overall, we think that these are many different elements, but good elements, and the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106145427	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106145439	We are also in the alternative in favour of the draft law. There has been nothing but a few of the hearings that just jumped my eyes as something we should be aware of. That has already been mentioned by some of my colleagues, and that is one of them. the fact that there are employees who can contribute to these trials instead, and we really do not see any problem in this regard if we want to debureaucratise and also save some resources in the public sector where it is possible and where it makes sense. Then it is mentioned as a loss of knowledge, and there are some places where it says that it is not treated satisfactorily if you have tried similar models. And we'll have to take a look at that. So, at first glance, we are confident, and what is being proposed makes sense, but if you find out that what is being delivered by those who then come in instead of lawyers is not satisfactory, you have to look at it and do something about it. I think it was the Enhedslisten's rapporteur who said that it might be possible to make a test period or a clause that allowed it to be returned to later. Well, that makes sense. We are not aware that this could be a problem at the moment, but it is certainly not something we would oppose if it were something that came through. So we are on the side of the alternative to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106145549	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106145606	As the other rapporteurs have mentioned, this is a joint legislative proposal which brings together a number of amendments to the law on the administration of justice and the law on court fees. First of all, the proposed changes allow state authorities to appear in court at their own employees. In future, then, authorities will be able to appoint representatives of the judicial authority to represent them in legal proceedings rather than external assistance. At the same time, we make it possible for the costs awarded to go to the assistance of a trial administrator. We therefore make it easier, cheaper and less bureaucratic for Danish authorities when they are involved in a trial. It is also proposed that in future judges may have access to the Special Appeals Tribunal against decisions of the President of the Court of Justice. It is important that Danish citizens are guaranteed legal certainty, but it also applies to judges who now have the opportunity to complain about a decision in the same way as can be done in most of the administration. I do not want to go into any further detail, as several of my colleagues have already mentioned. I just want to emphasise that we Conservatives place the emphasis on legal certainty for both authorities, judges and citizens. We believe that this proposal does not in any way cast doubt on legal certainty, on the contrary. At the same time, we will save a little money and the legislation will be reduced. So we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106145741	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106145751	Thank you for the contributions and the positive reception of the bill. After all, the bill is such a so-called collective bill. This means that the draft law brings together a number of individual proposals within the framework of the Code of Procedure, as well as an amendment to the Law on Taxation. The main aim of the proposal is to strengthen the possibility for state authorities to appear in civil proceedings before their own employees. It is therefore proposed that an employee who meets in the court of a State authority may be employed for the particular purpose of court proceedings. In addition, it is proposed that when a State authority is awarded costs, it may also include the costs of assistance from a trial administrator employed by the Authority. Secondly, it is proposed to strengthen legal certainty for judges and judges who are warned by the President of the Court. I therefore propose to introduce the right of a judge or judge to appeal to the Special Appeals Tribunal against a warning given by the President of the Tribunal. In addition, a number of minor amendments to the Code of Procedure are proposed. There are, among other things: the introduction of the Court's file portal. Finally, I propose to amend the law on taxation, so that cases of co-maternity are exempted from legal duty in the same way as cases of paternity. There has been broad support for most of the elements included in the draft law, and I am pleased about that. On the other hand, the consultation parties have been quite critical of the most important element of the draft law, which has also been mentioned by several speakers today. The proposal to strengthen the access of state authorities to civil proceedings by their own employees has been criticised by both lawyers and judges. The lawyers have among other things: Reference to the fact that an external lawyer can assess better than the authorities' own employees whether a trial should be conducted at all and that therefore it strengthens the legal certainty of the other party that the authority is represented by a lawyer. Let me make it clear that I attach great importance to legal certainty. I am not in favour of restricting legal certainty so that the state can save some legal expenses. However, the draft law does not restrict legal certainty. The bill gives state authorities an opportunity that they do not have today, namely to hire someone with the special task of facing civil trials before the authority. So we are giving state authorities the opportunity for some of their employees to be particularly skilled in conducting civil proceedings before the authority. I would like to stress here that the state authorities can already choose to appear in a civil trial in one of their employees. There's nothing new about that at all. The new thing is that the employee can be employed with the special task of meeting in court. This can only be seen as a strengthening of competences. It is also worth noting that a lawyer represents first and foremost his own client. Thus, when a State authority takes up a lawyer, the lawyer must take care of the interests of the authority and not of the other party. And public authorities are obliged to act objectively and in accordance with good administrative behaviour, and public servants must comply with a number of obligations relating, inter alia, to: legality, truth and professionalism. There is no reason to believe that the risk of an authority acting in secret will increase because the authority meets in court at its own employees rather than at an external lawyer. The judges have referred, in particular, to the risk that government employees without legal training will not be able to conduct a civil trial in a professional manner. However, it would not be in the interests of any authority to send an employee to court who is not capable of conducting the case. In the worst case scenario, the authorities risk losing the case in that account. Thus, when a State authority chooses to appear before a staff member in court, the authority will, by its very nature, place emphasis on the ability of the employee to conduct the trial in a professional manner. I agree, of course, that this does not rule out the possibility of going wrong in individual cases, but I do not believe that the fundamental risk of an employee making mistakes should prevent us from providing better opportunities for government employees to appear before the courts of the authority. In fact, the proposal is designed to reduce the risk of errors in the individual case. It is precisely with this proposal that we are giving the opportunity for employees to specialise in meeting in court and thus to be better at it. As I said before, a state authority can already choose to appear in a civil trial in one of its employees, but the employee must not be employed for the special task of court. Overall, on this basis, I believe that the proposal retains the same legal certainty as it does today. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs again for the various speeches and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106150242	We also thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106150301	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106150309	During the weekend, we again witnessed massive riots in connection with a football match, where stones were thrown and tear gas was used against the police. Thus, 70 officers were subjected to violence, 5 officers were injured, and 1 officer even had to be hospitalized. On the same day, 26 people were arrested in a football match somewhere else in the country, where two fan factions tried to confront each other. This is totally unacceptable and completely insane. Football, which is something you have to go to to enjoy yourself and to be with others in peace, quiet and order, should not end in this way with injured people and with a huge, huge consumption of resources by the police. That's why it has to be stopped now. The proposal for a law here is designed to facilitate the possibility of granting quarantine in the event of a violation of the ban on masking, and it is very clear that masking in football matches is completely unacceptable the first time it happens; if you want to go to football, you have to show your face. At the same time, the quarantine period will be extended in serious cases and the level of penalties for infringements of general quarantines will be increased and specific emergency plans will also be introduced for sporting events where there is an increased risk of unrest. These are very good initiatives, which we have also called for, yes, last time there were a lot, very great riots and police officers who were injured and so we can of course support this part. But we also see that there is a further need to take action against this. That is why we are actually calling on the Minister to call for negotiations in this area, because what we have seen this weekend is not just about what is happening in the stadium; it is very much about what is happening outside the stadium; it is also about what is happening outside the stadium; it has the impression that it is actually someone who has already been quarantined. In other words, the tools that the proposal is about today do not have much effect on this group. So we support the proposals that are being discussed here today, but hope that we can discuss it further, both in terms of how we can extend the quarantine possibilities and how we can make them work outside the stadium as well. A possible ban on zones could be an option. We could discuss the possibility that those who have been quarantined should also report in specific places the days when these games run off the table, so you know that they are not in the vicinity of the stadium. With regard to the issue of how the resource move is, it is hard to start by saying that you send a bill from the police to certain fan groups, but that does not change the fact that we think we should also have an open discussion on that part. In other words, can we do more to make groups that cause violent trouble, which have led to a massive resource move, compensation managers in special cases such as what we saw this weekend, where it is therefore going on outside the stadium and has nothing to do with the actual battle event at all? So we support the proposal but hope that we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106150645	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106150701	Football brings people together. Thousands of happy people in a stadium that creates memories of life, families that have children with, people who meet friends, enjoy life, maybe drink a lager or two, enjoy a sausage, have good memories. It's football, it's sports, it's happy moments that you take with you for the rest of your life. What is not sport is what we witnessed this weekend, when things went very wrong, where up to 70 policemen were beaten, thrown stones or shots at them, and some of the officers were wounded. It is as unsportsmanlike as it can be, it has nothing to do with football, it has something to do with bullies, because the people who did it are just bullies. The Government's proposal, which we are now considering, is therefore a good proposal. We see this not only as the possibility that a group that is extremely violent and extremely dangerous, both to ordinary people and to our officers, can be hit harder, but we also see it as a defence, in other words the bill here, for all the good and positive things that can be linked to sport in general and, in particular, football. That is why it is a good proposal which we naturally support. The proposal here makes it easier for the police to use tools to keep people away, that is to say to quarantine people when someone is masking themselves. That's really, really positive. You're going to sharpen the quarantine in these situations from two to four years. This is the right step to take, but from the Danish People's Party we do not necessarily believe that one becomes a better person by staying away from a football match for 4 years. If you haven't been able to figure it out after two years, then you probably won't learn after four, so you could easily imagine that you could turn this part up substantially. Then it is added that the first time you break such a quarantine, it must trigger a fine of 5,000 kroner. And it is a good thing that this is harmonised because there have been situations, it is quite clear in the legislative proposal where people have received different sanctions. And it's actually good that you put a fixed line and say that, as a starting point, it always starts at the 5,000 kr. Afterwards it will then give prison for 10 days. But we could also imagine giving them something extra in fines so that they can really feel it on the wallet if they can't manage to stay away anyway. Then it is proposed that emergency plans should be put in place, for which the clubs will be very much responsible. I believe that the clubs bear a huge responsibility, at least a huge responsibility for who it is that you let into the stadium, what is happening in the stadium, and it is important that you are naturally aware of that responsibility. However, there are also some points in which we think that the proposal does not quite come to the end. For example: a proposal from the Left has been out in the last few days. This is something that I would like to spend some time on the rest of my time here in the rapporteur's speech. We think it is a good proposal which simply asks: should not those people who obviously cannot behave properly help to cover some of the financial consequences of having the police on the spot in such large numbers? Yeah, we think that's a great idea. In fact, we think it is fair that we should hit harder on those people who cannot figure out how to behave. That is why we will also make ourselves fully available if the governing parties, the Left or others make such a proposal or amendment to this draft law in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Then we'll help. We are happy to put it forward, but we will also be happy to vote in the Chamber. We see no problem in that at all. The Socialist rapporteur raised before the possibility of reporting for people who might be quarantined. I think that's fine, too. We can take that in the hat. But we would also like to see some harder methods applied to these people while it's all going on. Why not use the possibility of water cannons, so simply make these people really wet? Well, then it's a lot more boring to fight the police. So we would like this to be a tool used. There have also been proposals in the debate that we do not like very much. One of the proposals has been to require some clubs to play without spectators. Then we are actually back at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech, because it is not the many thousands of ordinary people who appreciate watching a football match and who can behave properly, who have to be indirectly punished because a few thugs are going crazy. It is the bullies who have to take responsibility for what they have set in motion, and it is the bullies who have to be punished for it. But we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151205	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151212	Thank you. First of all, I have a greeting that has been picked up a little far from the outside. I think Mrs Trine Bramssen forgot to salute from the SF and say that the SF supports the proposal, so I have now been brought up to bring this communication. So far, so good. The proposal concerns the safety of sporting events. Let me just say that the proposal mostly concerns what is going on in the stadium. I think it is important that we distinguish between what is going on inside the stadium and what is going on away from it. Finally, I should like to make a few comments on the madness we have experienced this weekend, which did not take place in a stadium. Inside the stadium, thank God, we are reasonably in control, and we are not going to get it under control by means of this excellent proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is a proposal which facilitates the granting of quarantine, so that among other things: quarantine now can also be reported if you have broken the masking ban. After all, we already know that quarantine can be granted if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a number of other provisions of criminal law are being violated or are being violated. So far, so good. As you know, the quarantine can include 500 metres from the stadium when there are home matches and 3,000 metres from the stadium when there are outfights. So it is an excellent tool all the way through. In addition, it will be possible to tighten up the quarantine period, so that it is not just 2 but 4 years we are talking about. The penalty is tightened so that first-time cases give 5,000 DKK. in fines, and in the second case it will be unconditional prison for 10 days the first time. Finally, emergency plans must be drawn up and all that is quite right and has the great support of the Left. So far, as far as the proposal itself is concerned. Then I cannot fail to make a few comments on what we have seen that passed last weekend. I just have to say that I think it is disgraceful for most Danes to see how taxpayers' money is in my mind the costs allocated to the police are linked to these violent incidents that take place at times around football matches. In other words, it seems that the DBU's battle calendar is being opened up, and then we find out which day there is going to be trouble, and that trouble is therefore financing taxpayers by sending out police to a large extent with the result that my colleague has mentioned, namely a completely crazy result. Yesterday I sent a question to the Ministry of Justice, because I would like to know what options we have under current legislation or whether there is a possibility of amending the legislation, and the purpose is that those who are responsible for this and deliberately set this up at certain times will also pay for the costs that their actions have demanded. It's the police's expenses at first. The latest figure I've been told that the police should be informed is that this weekend's trouble has cost 1.2 million. kr. In police hours and 300,000 kroner. In broken cars. I do not know how to calculate the figures, so I cannot vouch for them, but everyone can clearly see that a great many police officers are allocated to this, and we simply do not think that can be done on behalf of taxpayers. That's why we're waiting for the Justice Department to come up with options. It is, of course, the case in Denmark that we do not normally have a principle that a convicted person can also have a bill on police assistance, on the assistance of the judge, on the rent of the court, etc., because it is like part of the package we have in society here, but I think that in these very special cases where you order the ballad, to put it that way, and thus order the expenses that the citizens have to pay, it would be only fair if they were reimbursed by the person concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151634	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151638	Thank you. I think the rapporteur made a very good speech, at least I very much agree with many of the considerations. However, what I would like to return to is the proposal that the rapporteur made yesterday, which was partially addressed in the speech. I think that was a good suggestion. It was like these thugs were just gonna help put in the box, compared to what it cost the police. There are, of course, considerable resources being drawn from our hard-pressed police at the moment. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur could perhaps clarify a little. As far as we are concerned, I can say that we in the Danish People's Party would like to be prepared to vote in favour of an amendment if that is what the rapporteur of the Left wants there to be, but we would also like to be involved in making it. So we are at least fully ready to help the Left with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151726-2	The proposal, as I have already outlined, is that, in addition to what you get from punishment, whether it be a fine or a prison, you also get some kind of compensation for the costs that you have caused to society, in this case the police. I just have to say, as I also indicated in my speech, that it is then a peculiar view in Denmark that you are going to pay for police assistance. That is why I am not quite sure that this can be done for some reason. It will probably also be a little difficult to make up for this. But then it is just that I ask the Ministry of Justice to explain what might then be possible, i.e. either that it is possible, or that something else might be possible, and it could be an additional penalty or something like that. And when I have that statement, I would very much like to reply to Mr Seligman's question. Peter Kofod, but I will not stand by and answer whether I can support an amendment that I do not know what is going on and where I do not know whether it is legal, because we are in a situation where I say that we are at least on the way to a new ball course, to use that expression now. But we share our thoughts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151832	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151834	That's fair enough, too. I'm not gonna drill that anymore. We can always talk about this in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The second thing is in relation to the quarantine period of 4 years. Could the rapporteur of the Left imagine that this could be a longer period than the four years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151848	Yeah, I could imagine, but that's true in terms of all possible punishment. If you get a fine, you could imagine that instead of being 1,000 kroner. 1,500 kroner.? You can imagine that, but everything must have a limit, and here the limit is set at 4 years. I think we should see how this works. Most people, however, get older over the years. At least I can sign that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151910	Yeah, you better hope so. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106151919	Thank you. Yes, I can only report in the series of rapporteurs who distance themselves from what happened this weekend, namely that officers were attacked and injured in that way. It is, of course, totally unacceptable and does not belong anywhere. I may also be particularly sorry because of the outcome of the fight, but let it go. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is a tightening up of previous legislation to limit disturbances at high-risk matches in professional Danish football. It has been legislated on in 2008 and again in 2013. Yet, unfortunately, we often find ourselves in trouble at these high-risk battles. It is typically around the park at Østerbro in Copenhagen or around Brøndby Stadium in Brøndby, depending on who is now playing at home. Many thoughts have been given as to how this problem can be resolved and, as the bill says, the football organizations and the organized football fans have entered into a good dialogue with the authorities. Of course, we can only warmly support this in the Enhedslisten. If we are to continue to point out the positive things in this bill, we think it is a very good idea that clubs, in other words those companies that make money from football, can be required to draw up concrete contingency plans for a high-risk fight. When we spend society's money to allow the police to create security around the fighting, it requires an extensive degree of cooperation between the police and the clubs, including the preparation of contingency plans. So we have no objection to that part of the bill. In the Enhedslisten we actually take this problem quite seriously. We want to help prevent football riots. For example: We agreed in 2013 that the police were given the power to move the battle time for high-risk matches to earlier in the day, so spectators should not leave the stadium after dark, and so the alcohol intake among the football fans might also be at a different level than if it is a late fight. This was a quite sensible change for which the two current governing parties Liberal Alliance and the Left could not vote in favour at that time in 2013. On the other hand, we have difficulty with quarantines imposed at the discretion of the police, and legal uncertainty is increasing if the Folketing adopts this bill. Now, as the comments on the draft law state, there is no longer any demand for the police to be able to point to specific circumstances which would make it possible for the person concerned to commit another offence. There just needs to be a reasonable suspicion of violation of the masking ban. In our opinion, the bill leaves too much to the discretion of the police. We have the courts to make decisions, not the police. We have the courts to make decisions that interfere with citizens' lives, not the police. Here too, the bill, like so much else in this House, is marked by a very strong belief that more severe penalties prevent crimes. We would like to see it documented that stricter penalties should be used to prevent spectators from being alarmed about football matches before we vote in favour of punishment in this area. So, overall, it's going to be a no from here if the bill looks like it is now. But, of course, the Minister of Justice could choose the sensible solution as one of his predecessors, sir. Morten Bødskov, in 2013, chose when we last promised in this area, namely to split up the bill. If that happens, we would very much like to support the element of contingency plans. Then I have also promised to salute and then you can judge for yourself whether it is a greeting far from or close to the Radical Left and say that they can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106152324	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106152332	Thank you. Unlike all the previous rapporteurs, I know nothing about football, and I also usually do not care who wins, but I know that a football match is supposed to be entertaining and that it should be exciting and cozy to go to a game. We cannot legislate for that from Christiansborg, and that is probably also very good, but we can ensure that it is safe and safe to go to the stadium to watch football for those who want to, and that is what we are trying to do with this bill. We raise, among other things. the quarantine period from 2 to 4 years in serious cases, and we align the penalty levels for violation of the quarantines. As many of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, we had a boring case this weekend in a football match between Brøndby and F.C. Copenhagen. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, and we must take action against that behaviour as well as we can, so that football fans can see a match without having it destroyed by boring types who cannot figure out how to behave properly. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106152439	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106152448	It is important that we balance this in a sensible way. It sounds very politician-like to say to get it balanced, but it is also often essential to do in political matters, so that you do not go completely black or completely white in the assessment you make. I myself have been employed in a football club back in 2011-12, namely the top club Silkeborg IF....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then there are some elements that I would like to discuss in more detail at the end, which we need to find out if there is any criticism. But I would like to say that football clubs are really doing a lot for this already. It is a major problem for the largest of them to ensure that there is no unrest, but it is not necessarily football supporters who cause these riots, but thugs and troublemakers who might have found places to cause unrest, whether there had been a football match or not. As one rapporteur said before, they look up the DBU's battle calendar and find the places where there is the greatest opportunity to create as much havoc as possible. It does not only happen in Denmark, it happens in many places. So when we talk about the responsibilities of clubs, they certainly have a responsibility, and it may well be that you have to put even more on them, but it is my experience that already today, both in the small clubs and in the large ones that it is all about here, mainly Brøndby and F.C. Copenhagen is very much self-insight about the responsibility they have, and great resources are also being spent on it. So once it has been established, I will take note of a quote handed down to me by our Minister of Justice, which he made here a few days ago, in relation to what the role of the police in general was. The police were, in fact, something that you didn't have to pay for separately, because it was something we all had together. We think that's a pretty good attitude to this area. How, then, do we stop the fact that some taxpayers' money, all of our money, goes directly into the drain, as we can see on a weekend like the one that has just been, in the millions, because it does not give anything good to our society, except that we ensure that the riots do not run completely out of control? We have to look at this and we can look at it in committee, i.e. whether there is any possibility of doing anything. At first sight, it is far away from us in the alternative to punishing clubs for having to pay part of the police bill, and at the same time it also sounds legally difficult to punish individuals with fines which are one for one with police costs, but we must look at that. We do not reject what we actually think is a very interesting discussion to take. In the stadium and around the stadium it is, of course, the responsibility of the clubs, but what if one simply cannot stand for that part alone, then we must also say in all sorts of other areas that it is the organisers' responsibility to ensure safety and not the police's, and thus also to give the organisers responsibility for any expenses that may arise in the event of riots. We think that's a slippery slope. Then there's something about the masking ban. As I read it immediately as a new legal rapporteur, it is one of the first places where I am clearly enthusiastic about the ban on masking. It is often you see a hooligan dressed in a scarf so you can only look at the eyes, and then there may be a single little club icon somewhere, and there we are at least willing to look at whether it is okay to relax the possibilities that exist for the police, to use it for something in terms of sanctioning and imposing quarantine too, but I will look at that in committee, i.e. whether it is too far to go. In relation to the penalties, it is a basic rule for us in the Alternative that if you act in affection or are personally involved in something with other people or some other relationships where conflicts arise, then we do not believe so much in raising the penalty. In fact, we do not believe in it at all, because we believe that it should be preventive, but in such cases, where we are deliberately entering into something to cause unrest or to do something for our own gain, it may help, so we are also not opposed to lifting the penalties with our mandates for once. So we are positive about the proposal, but maybe we can take part in some changes here and there. But I think it is important finally to say that football clubs are doing a great deal already and that they already have financial costs, even if they do not have to pay any of the police's bills. There are a lot of people who need to be engaged, and there we also need to listen to their needs, so that they cannot just be imposed on them by a high-risk fight to say, as one of the hearing answers says, that 500 men have to be made if they have the empire that it is enough with 100. Then it is important that we have a dialogue, because there is therefore some knowledge in the clubs as well. But I wonder if the clubs are very much in agreement about supporting what we are now landing on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106152941	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106152952	The proposal here is to implement a number of the proposals that were part of the Minister's proposal • Security at the Danish football stadiums, which aims to combat the riots at football matches and which are based on the events that took place a few months ago. There was something again this weekend, and it's a bad thing, because we have to remember that it's not something that has to be there. This rarely happens and is more the exception than the rule, and it is actually very good at football matches. It is not as bad as it was in the 1990s, when we had a lot of hooligan fighting, at least that was what dominated the 1990s. It's been very much better... the clubs have taken greater responsibility... with the security provided by private companies within the stadium. I also believe that fan clubs could take even more responsibility than they do today. I have been told that the chairman of a fan club was interviewed this morning and that he said that if he knew that someone was going to cause trouble, he would not give it up, but report it, and I really think that is a pity. You have to keep a greater degree of self-righteousness, it is in your own interests and in the interests of the club. So what is happening is that a lot of police resources are being seized which can well be used for much else. After all, we do not have much police resources, and I think it is a pity that resources are being spent on this. Some have been out to say that you have to send the bill for police resources to those who cause the trouble. I think that's a slippery slope, 'cause what's next? That discussion was also held about Rasmus Paludan's father's out in his opinions but when he reports a demonstration, he takes advantage of his constitutional law, and then the police choose to be there. And the saying that he must pay for it himself, or that those who are protected in Denmark must pay for it themselves, is a slippery slope, and we are not in favour of it in the Conservative People's Party. It is, of course, absolutely reprehensible that there should be scenes like those we have seen this weekend, and that is a pity for the majority of spectators. I'm very often inside watching the FCK, and they're playing well at the moment.Brøndby doesn't, so if they get a little better, we don't get so much trouble. But I'm often in there with my son, and most people who are in there are there to watch football and be with others socially. I think it is a pity that something like this is being destroyed by football hooligans, because there are a lot of ordinary people going to football with friends and family, and who are not interested in anything but having fun and watching the ball game; it should not be destroyed by a small group of hooligantosses, we just need to get them out as soon as possible. The proposal we are debating now is precisely targeted at this group of hooligans, and it is acting, among other things. to make it easier for the police to quarantine people who break the masking ban for a football match. We increase the quarantine period, we raise the penalty level, we send a clear signal that this kind of behaviour does not belong in the Danish stadiums. The proposal also contains initiatives aimed at improving the preparedness of high voltage matches and improving cooperation between police and clubs. The kind of scenes we saw this weekend must be past in Denmark, because most people associate football with a sausage during the break and have fun with family and friends; it should not be destroyed by a bunch of football psychopaths. That is why we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106153411	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106153417	Thank you. I noticed a perhaps wrong remark from the platform when I heard Mr. René Gade said that he had been employed in a top club, Silkeborg IF, and that they are now at the top of the 1st division. You'd have to look at the position, because there's Viborg. But let's just leave it alone. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the very positive contributions we have heard here today. After all, the purpose of the bill is to ensure a safe, safe and enjoyable soccer experience. The positive fan culture that helps to create cohesion in our society must be safeguarded. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of a hard core of troublemakers ruining the experience of others at football matches. We have among other things. the fact that there have been fights, so it has been necessary for the police to move into the stadium, and as recently as this weekend, it has been seen how football thugs in two different places in the country after the fight have caused riots to such an extent that policemen have been prone to caste when they have tried to stop the trouble. I do not need to say that this behaviour is totally unacceptable and must be stopped. In August, I presented a series of initiatives on which the relevant players in the field have agreed and which tighten the rules against football thugs. The bill is implemented as well as those parts of the proposal that require legislation. Masking in connection with football will, as a starting point, be a clear indication that there are riots. We will therefore give the police easier access to general quarantine in cases where the masking ban has been violated. We are doing this in such a way that, in future, there should be no demand for repeated risk in the event of a breach of the ban on masking. Quarantines help to ensure that troublemakers do not gain access to the stadium and therefore cannot cause unrest. Longer quarantines can have a preventive effect on potential troublemakers. With the bill, we increase the quarantine period from 2 to 4 years in more serious cases. It can, for example, be done. be in cases where weapons have been used or where harder action is needed because the same person keeps causing trouble. If you violate a general quarantine, you are punished, but today there are great variations in the level of punishment. There is therefore a need to standardise the level of penalties and, at the same time, to increase the level of penalties. With the bill, we propose that the first time a general quarantine is violated, it will cost a fine of DKK 5,000. If you break the quarantine again, we'll hit harder. Second-time violations therefore provide 10 days in prison as a starting point. Finally, it is crucial that there is good cooperation between players in the field of football when a game is to be played. The police and football clubs together are able to deliver good and professional action in general, but there are some very special challenges in high-risk matches, i.e. matches with a particularly high level of tension. It is important to ensure strong cooperation on these battles, and therefore the bill allows the police to decide that the club should draw up a contingency plan for the security design and conduct of the fight. The emergency plan must be approved by the police. It must help to ensure that the necessary measures are taken and that it is safe and secure to go to football. There is a need to take tougher action against the core of football thugs we have seen. And at the same time, the development of recent years paints a predominantly positive picture, which must be maintained so that football fans can be comfortable by going to football in the stadiums around the country. That's what this bill is supposed to help secure. With those comments, I would like to thank you for the positive statements that have been made today and to look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106153806	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106153810	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for an excellent legislative proposal. I think there are some fine elements in it, but I can also hear from the media and from the debate in this Chamber today that there are several parties that have new proposals on how to make this bill better. I just want to know what the Minister thinks of them. Something has been said about allowing parts of this police task to be financed by the fact that it is the football thugs who have to pay in the form of fines. There have been proposals for reporting for famous football thugs, so you know where you have these people before. I myself suggested that water cannons should be used more outside the stadium, because if it's cold outside and you're soaking wet, it's not so fun to fight afterwards. So there are such different options. What is the Minister's position with regard to some of them? Is there anything where the Minister of Justice thinks that that is exactly what we are going to have and to which one could add here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106153908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106153910	That's a lot of things. I don't think I should interfere with the operational effort. Well, if the police come and say that now they want to use water cannons, I won't be the one to cut the brake. But I think it must be the police who are like coming and saying what they need operationally, and then we have to talk about it from there. I understand that position that it cannot be reasonable for us to spend the money in this way, for all the trouble around football. I understand that. I'm just very, very afraid that we'll start with what I think I've previously called such a partial privatisation of the police. I'm just very, very worried about that, because what's next? Do people who go out in the night life have to pay part of the police bill? Where's that line going? That's kind of what I'm worried about. I think we just have to say that one of the reasons why we have a police force is to be honest now that they have to take care of those who are just idiots and can't figure out how to behave. It costs some money to create law and order, and that's why I'm not so excited about that part of it. Now I have a question from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, and we shall have to answer that later, because I cannot stand up here and say what the legality is of one thing and the other. Then maybe I can answer more when another round has arrived.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154019	Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154020	I understand what the Minister is saying about the fact that we have a police force because some people do not know how to behave, and the police then intervene against them. I do not think anyone can agree that it is the clubs that have to pay for the police service. I think it would be a terrible slippery slope or that it is football fans who have to finance it over the ticket to this football game, but that it might be said that we could compensate this by saying that it was some crazy fines we put on these people, that is to say that you simply had to pay something more so that it is not just police resources for millions that we pour directly into the sewer every year when someone cannot behave properly. I really hope it's just a comment, a request that the minister will take the lead so that you can move along this road.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154102	I am always happy to discuss what is possible, it is more so as to see the questions of principle in some of it. It is important to say that, if you do damage to things, you are also liable to pay compensation today. I understand it's not exactly that, but it's just to remind you of it. The fines are, of course, also about the fact that there must be proportions in relation to other forms of crime. Then let's discuss it. I mean, four years of quarantine is what the police can give, and it's gotta be equal to something else. I would just like to remind you here that I am quite sure that the questioner knows, but then it is just the case to the public that it is the case today that if the clubs want to, because it is private companies, they can give lifelong quarantines, and one could then consider whether they should use something more of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154142	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154144	I am glad that the Minister in this way can be said at least as I interpret it a little leans the proposal of who is to finance the presence of the police for these games, of the board. So I'd just like for the record, now that we've had this debate, if the Minister of Justice can just confirm that there's a difference between being a bully and going to football and being a football fan and going to football on Sunday afternoons quite quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154216-2	There is a very big difference, and I have found that when I write about this on social media, there are many people who react wildly to what I imagine and one, the other and the third. If you are a real football fan, you do not throw stones or beat other people or attack others. Football fans are people who love football, the others are just some thugs who need some beatings in a figuratively sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154239	Yeah, so we got it together with the 1st Division position. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154317	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154326	The legislative proposals we are discussing now translate the agreement on combating juvenile delinquency. It is an agreement to ensure an earlier, more targeted, preventive approach to the approximately 700 children and young people who commit serious crimes each year, such as violence, rape or possession of weapons. The new effort must therefore ensure that we see in the past those young people who commit serious crime so that they are not allowed to develop so that the child and young people become hard-boiled criminals. The core of the agreement is that cooperation between authorities and alignment across municipalities is strengthened. It is the case today that far from all municipalities are good enough to get young criminals on the right track, just as cooperation between authorities is far from always good enough. In addition, it can sometimes be suspected that some municipalities choose interventions for young people on the basis of economics, more than what is most professionally supported. These are basically the problems that the agreement and the draft law here are going to solve. Let me just make clear what children and young people we are talking about. These are serious crimes such as drug trafficking, robbery and violence. The proposals are not about the boy or girl who has stolen a Marsbar down at the Sparbuyer, but rather the group of children and young people where there is a statistical risk that they will end up as adult criminals if they do not break the bad behavior early in life. With the agreement, the Social Democratic Party has ensured that the age of crime is not lowered. It was otherwise a clear and unambiguous election promise from the government parties and the Danish People's Party, but by going to the negotiating table and staying there, by focusing on what makes sense professionally, we have ended up with an agreement based solely on social policy elements. No punishment, no juvenile court, no child imprisonment. In this context, I would also like to say that I think it is really a pity that there have been so many myths and really untruths promoting both the agreement and the bill here, because no, you cannot just put 40% down. I would also like to make a few comments on a proposal to strengthen its debate position. This is simply not a real way of going to discussion. This is not least a pity, because it is a shadow of otherwise very good incentives for improvement when it is claimed that the agreement lowers the age of criminals and places children in child imprisonment, which is actually wrong. In the Social Democratic Party we would very much like to listen to improvements and criticisms, and in fact there have also been some very good initiatives for the agreement during the consultation phase, which we have had occasion to discuss with the Minister of Justice, and we have largely had them changed and clarified. This applies in particular to the desire to make the mention independent. It's being mentioned. Furthermore, we have ensured that it is clear and made clear that uniformed police should not, of course, go to schools or at home and pick up children or young people, just as the UN Convention on Children is clearly included in the agreement, because of course there must be no doubt that we are complying with the conventions, even when it comes to children and young people. On the part of the Social Democrats, we would have liked to see the children's experts sitting in the Chamber to have the right to vote, but that part has not been accepted, but we will take it up again with the Minister during the forthcoming evaluations. There have been many evaluations and follow-ups, and for us it is absolutely crucial that we follow closely the work on combating juvenile delinquency from the political level, because, of course, we will keep a very, very close eye on the fact that a criminal low age is not introduced by the back door, or that the intention of the agreement alone to be a social effort is slipping. If it turns out that all or part of the agreement does not live up to the political intention to bring children and young people back on course and back in the community early, we in the Social Democratic Party are, of course, ready to discuss it and make the necessary changes. The need to look also at the possibilities of increased differentiation, differentiated placement in 24-hour institutions has emerged in the efforts to strengthen the fight against juvenile delinquency. This is also apparent from a number of consultation responses. This has nothing to do with this agreement, but precisely because critics have mentioned it in connection with the agreement, I would like to make it quite clear that we in the Social Democratic Party would like to focus on a more targeted and individual placement based on age, gender and cause, for it is not appropriate for an 11-year-old suicidal girl to sit with, for example, a 16-year-old rapist. The bill also contains a number of new tools for locations, such as door alarms. This is not something that we have been thinking of in the contract circle, it is actually a wish of the institutions, and it is several of the tools that are given to institutions, and so I could have hoped that some of those who have criticized the tools would have been involved in the study trips we have been on, for example, in the Legal Affairs Committee, or had visited the institutions of their own motion, for that is what the institutions want, because they have seen young people trying to harm each other because they have seen young people who have produced murder weapons or other things that could be used to harm others, such as toothbrushes, knives or forks. That is why we think these are good tools, and we think it is really important that we listen to them in those places which have long expressed a desire to extend their toolbox. Against this background, I must inform you that we in the Social Democratic Party support the bill, but at the same time I would also say that we will be following the implementation and experience of the law very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154924	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106154928	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. There are some things that Mrs Trine Bramsen says, which I wonder a little bit about and which I hope to be able to clarify now. First of all, I took note and maybe I misheard that Mrs. Trine Bramsen said no punishment. Does the Social Democratic Party really believe that there are no elements of punishment in this bill? That is the first question. Secondly, there's this thing about what makes sense professionally. As far as I am aware, five out of seven institutions are opposed to this bill. So I am a little surprised that the rapporteur is saying that this draft law has come into being on the basis of requests from the institutions. I'd like to get some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155010-2	There is absolutely no punishment in connection with this legislative package. What we are talking about is reactions, and that is from the social toolbox. There we have to be very clear because punishment is something that is used in the criminal justice toolbox. Punishment is not something you use in the social toolbox. And it is only social initiatives that can be used here for young people. If, in free interpretation, you think it is a punishment to go to football or clean up after your injuries, you can of course start to define it as punishment yourself, but when we work with laws, I think it is very important that we are precise as to where the different concepts belong. Punishment therefore belongs over in the criminal context, and that is not what we are dealing with here. In relation to the other, it is quite true that there have been about 100 stakeholders involved in the creation of this game, even in several rounds. Some want tools, others do not want tools. But that does not change the fact that those who have expressed a desire for major alarms, for example, must have the opportunity to use them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155124	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155125	Then perhaps on another occasion we can have an exciting talk about when something is a punishment and when something is not. I think that this bill lies very much somewhere between some social efforts and something that is criminal law. Well, I think it's moving much closer to something similar to punishment. However, I would like to hear about Mrs Trine Bramsen's position on all the stakeholders that we have read about and seen. For Trine Bramsen himself mentions that there have been many stakeholders involved in the process, and when I read the consultation answers, I don't see much enthusiasm for the professionalism of this bill. I would like to hear the views of the Social Democratic Party on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155208-2	We just need to be very precise as to where punishment belongs. Punishment belongs in criminal law. This isn't criminal law we're working on, but it's social law. When you talk to your friends and people like that, you can do your own conceptual explanations, but when we talk about legislation, there are very precise definitions of what is punishment and what is social legislation. Then I hope that Mrs Rosa Lund has read the response to the hearings. Now I have been a legal rapporteur for five years and I would like to say that I have never read such a blank rejection of some false allegations, and unfortunately there have been many of them in the hearings.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155249	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155252	Thank you. After all, the reactions of actual organisations, both legal experts and organisations in children's areas, may be a little annoying when they are rejected by the fact that the criticisms they have are myths and misunderstandings. In other words, one might also think that it was perhaps because the legislation was unclear if they could misunderstand it so much. And the fact that it is actually being dealt with in this way right now, that it is the Minister for Justice who is putting forward the proposal, not the Minister for Social Affairs, and that it is the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that has to deal with the proposal, and not the Committee on Social Affairs, is pointing to the fact that it is not social legislation that we are now making. I would like to ask the rapporteur to reflect on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155342-2	I mean, it's no different than the juvenile delinquency that Social Democracy, Radical Left and SF launched when we had government power together. It was also launched under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice, although several ministries were involved in the work. So it hasn't changed. In relation to the answers to the hearings, I hope that Mrs Trine Torp has read all the places where the critical consultation answers have been accepted, because there are not so few places where there have been any response. I mentioned them myself in my rapporteur's speech, just an extract and they have been important for the Social Democratic Party: the Convention on the Rights of the Child, evaluations already after 3 months and then follow-up every six months, many clarifications pointing out that something was unclear. So there has certainly been listening to the critical consultation responses, but it is simply not right to claim that there is punishment or that it is a question of lowering the age of criminals or introducing child imprisonment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155441	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155443	I have certainly read it, and I also recognise that there have been some improvements to the legislative proposal and thank you for it. However, according to the Children's Convention, the child's best interests must be at the top of Danish legislation when we make legislation, but if it is to be for the child's best and more holistic and build on the child's own resources and be organised on the basis of a concrete assessment of the child's needs, why should it be under the police's control?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155513	Well, it's not supposed to. It is very clear in the clarification of the hearings that there is independence for this board. So the name becomes independent. It's not exactly going to be in the same place as the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155529	We thank the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beazley. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106155556	There is hardly anything more important or more meaningful as a legal politician than helping to make an agreement like the one we have concluded with the governing parties and the social democracy. After all, it has the clear aim that fewer children and young people should be swirled into an environment where they can't breathe; that fewer children and young people should be part of a criminal environment, where they get started very early on committing crime and not being corrected and then eventually end up sitting in an adult prison, not as a child in an adult prison, because we don't do that in Denmark, we couldn't dream of doing that, but because we don't want children and young people who get a skewed start in life very early and get into crime, to grow up and become adult criminals who are going to waste the majority of their lives in prisons with lots of victims. That is why it is a good agreement that we have made with the government and the Social Democratic Party. I would go so far as to say that we are actually very proud of the agreement we have made. I believe that the parties that are part of it can raise their backs, because what we are doing here sets in on two crucial areas which I think we can be very happy with. As part of the proposal, these juvenile delinquency boards are being introduced, where, at the age of 10, if you are suspected of having committed something really ugly, you can enter. There is an independent judge sitting at the end of the table, and there is a group of different people around someone who can best and together initiate the necessary reactions to stop the young person from committing crime, that is to say, that the young person stops moving into an area where, at some point in his life, he ends up in an adult prison if he does not change his behaviour. That's pretty good, actually. In addition, we are looking at the closed institutions. I think there has been good reason for that. A number of guidelines are laid down. In his speech, the Socialist rapporteur referred to the issue of door alarms. There is also the question of video surveillance. In fact, I think that this is an area in which more energy can easily be used. Fortunately, that is also what the agreement provides for. I'll get back to that. I think that in many ways the debate in Denmark over the last few years has been incredibly skewed. On the one hand, we have spent 20 years discussing whether it should be a case worker or a judge who should place children and young people who get a bad start on life, in some offer, some institution, open, closed, whatever. Is it that crucial for the young person whether it is a judge or a multidisciplinary team or a caseworker? I don't think it's the meeting with the system that makes you either really good or really bad. Of course, I think it is a good thing that there are several wise heads meeting and who can see the different perspectives, and that is actually the solution that has been found in the agreement. But I also believe that over the last few years in Denmark the important debate about what the young person is meeting with on the other hand has been neglected, that is, when it has been decided what reactions should be set up. I think that has been neglected. Instead, the debate has flown away with all sorts of other things. It has been driven by a debate on emotions, and yes, there is nothing wrong with that, but there may have been a great many feelings in this debate. I would just like to mention a few examples from recent weeks after we have reached this agreement. Does the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have this agreement children's prisons in Denmark to taste the word children's prisons? Do we? No. Are we gonna drop the criminal low age to 10 years? No, neither do we. Is it new that ten-year-olds could end up in a closed-hour institution with this deal? No, it's not. And is this agreement at odds with the conventions? No, it isn't. I just have to say that this debate has been extremely toxic. In my three and a half years as a legal rapporteur, I have not seen a debate so little driven by objectivity and so much driven by someone's desire to make themselves known in the media. In fact, I do not think it has been very pleasant to witness, but that is the way it is. I can say that I am pleased that we have reached an agreement which has been driven by reason and driven by a desire to see things as they are and to explore different angles. I think I can say that on the part of my party we have asked incredibly many questions to various ministers over a long time to find out what has been up and down this situation, and I am actually very pleased with and proud of what we have achieved. But I am not proud of the way this has been dealt with externally. One has the impression sometimes that Denmark has become such a developing country, that is to say that Denmark has become a country in which we treat children and young people quite awfully. Last week the Committee on Legal Affairs had the opportunity to go to Holland on another matter, but also had the opportunity to discuss juvenile crime with some of the people who work with it, both politicians and other authorities. I just have to say that it is not my impression that Denmark is getting out of the world with this agreement, or that Denmark is doing something completely wild compared to what other comparable countries in Europe might do, perhaps rather the opposite. Perhaps, on the contrary, Denmark is driven by being a country where we as parties sit down and make some agreements and actually put all that previous goods away from us. We have discussed it very much and meet to see if we can't make a system where it actually bats something and where what we want is actually going to work. As part of the agreement, we also need to look through the institutional area in the future, and it is not a question of pointing the finger at someone or suspecting someone, but it is a question of whether, if we are going to change something, it should be based on knowledge, it should be based on seeing these matters from different angles, and that, when we have done so, we come to what it should look like. That is why we also have plenty of time to wait for it. We have plenty of time to wait for the government to be ready with what needs to be prepared for us and, of course, also to take account of the other party or the third party to this agreement, which is the Social Democracy. I cannot really help thinking, when I say here, that this is the culmination of many years of work, where we have actually discussed some very wrong things; where we have discussed whether it was the judge or the social worker who should determine what should happen to children and young people. I have to say that I do not quite understand it. One of the things that, I think, should be one of the most important things is how to limit the presence of more young criminals. They get a bad life if they're criminals. It's not an optimal life. You generate a lot of victims that also get hurt and get a worse life. I think it is actually thought-provoking that this is the way the debate has been conducted. One of the most important things is that it is children and young people who have got off to a bad start, and then it has been said that you could have 98 different levels in this country in 98 different municipalities. So I see an incredibly great advantage in the fact that we now have standards that are more similar. Because whether you are young or a child who does something that is wrong and lives in North Jutland or South Zealand, you can therefore look forward to having a treatment that is more uniform than it may have been in the past. Because there have been different approaches to this question, depending on where in the country you have lived. There is no question here that it is a child who is going to chop a Marsbar down at the local supermarket. There is no question of that at all. After all, we have done something very bad and, of course, I think we have an obligation. Whether what you do is very little, so a very mild social measure must be taken, which will take place in a completely different context or in a completely different direction, or whether it is something that is very hard, then I think it should be taken care of. Frankly, I find it sad if very young people should just fall between the chairs. It will be a declaration of failure. Now I see that my speaking time is running out. I hope to have the opportunity to answer a lot of questions from Members. I should like to conclude by thanking the Minister for Justice and the governing parties for a long and, I think, constructive course on this package, but also thanks to the Social Democratic Party for this. It has been very long, but I think we have made the best of it, and I think we can be happy and proud of what has come here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106160526	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod. There are no brief comments. Yeah, they came all of a sudden. We take brief comments from two people and the first is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106160543	Thank you. And I'm sorry about the slowness of the button here. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I think that this is a very interesting area, which I have followed very closely as Social Rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, and which is important in our optics, in other words because we are dealing with a very vulnerable group of children, because these are very, very vulnerable children. Most people live in poverty, have themselves suffered violence or abuse, may be self - injuring. When we talk about children who commit serious crime, there are always problems. So it is not something that just comes out of thin air; it is quite vulnerable young people. And they need help, support and guidance to develop into adult whole people, you might say. What I note in the rapporteur's speech is that the matter is referred to. So I would just like to hear what kind of children's organisations, professional organisations, professors think that punishment and consistency are the way to go because I have only met professionals, experts who say the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106160702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106160704	Well, I would like to know, and I can ask the questioner, when the questioner himself becomes rapporteur, where it was that punishment and consistency I think these were the words that were used as an element of my rapporteur's speech, because I do not really think I mentioned that. I don't think this is punishment with punishment, not at all. In fact, I think what we are proposing is extremely caring and I mean it. Well, I mean, it's extremely caring. If you are a child who, as the rapporteur says, has got off to a bad start, that is to say an exposed child and needs help, support and guidance, then it must be the best possible help, support and guidance that what you need to move on to is something that is searched by a wide range of professionals sitting on this board, so that independently you can look at this case from different angles. Actually, I think that's a helping hand. Well, I don't think that's punishment, and I don't think it's hard. I am well aware that there are a lot of hard fates, and these are the ones we need to take care of and make sure we move on and have a better life than they might have grown up in. But I don't think this is awful in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106160813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106160815	I do not think the rapporteur thinks this is a terrible thing either, because then I actually believe that the rapporteur would have fought against it. I think that these are just some parties that have perhaps basically misunderstood social educational efforts and perhaps forgot to ask whether it is now as bad as it is supposed to be. Because the premise of the rapporteur's speech is also that it goes to Pomeranian and that a whole lot of children are being lost. The fact is, however, that juvenile delinquency has fallen almost beyond comprehension and that this is also true of the special group of young people who are doing very serious crime. Perhaps the rapporteur could agree with me on this, but at the same time he could also answer my previous question as to whether there are any professionals who support the proposals of the government and the Danish People's Party, because I have not heard them. Youth crime has plummeted, so isn't the existing system actually working, as all the experts are pointing out to the government and the Danish People's Party at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106160925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106160926	Yes, juvenile delinquency is decreasing, and so is it in countries where you have a major other system, that is to say where you have one, I think, too hard a system on some points; there too we see that juvenile delinquency is decreasing. Should I then turn it around and say that because you have a harder system, that is what has worked, that is what has led to a fall? Well, that's unspeakable, Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Pernille Skipper must be able to do better than that. I mean, I think that the half-arguments that are not connected should be swept away. I still don't think away and I'm not ashamed that this is punishment; I don't think so. In fact, I think this is a more caring system than what we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161005	Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161009	Thank you. One of the things that, among other things, Says in the bill, the pickup of children and parents, if they don't show up for this juvenile felony board, can or must be done by the police. In both the new law on family law, to which the rapporteur's own party has contributed, and in the recent agreement on the transfer of children from one location to another, there has been a wide range of parties which have wished that this type of use of force against children should not be used unless it is specifically intended to protect the child, so it would therefore be a failure not to retrieve the child by force. That is why I am just a little surprised at how this proposal rhymes with the intention of at least the Socialist rapporteur from the rapporteur's party in the two other areas, namely that we should bring down to zero the situations in which children are taken from the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161122	I think it rhymes fine, and I should like to explain why. It's a fact that in this long phase, when the negotiations have entered into and the government has made a bill, there's also been a focus on this part. I'm not gonna tell the cops to go out like that, babu-babu and get somebody. I couldn't possibly dream of saying that. That is not the way I read the comments in the draft law either. It is easy to ensure that people are taken care of in a different way. So in one case or two it can happen that some people just don't want to go, and then a nice countryman comes along and says, "Don't you want to come with me, 'cause we need to talk about this?" I have to say, if that happens, I'll probably survive that part too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161207	Well, if it's supposed to be caring for the kids, why are the police picking up the kids and the parents? What we have agreed in the other agreements is precisely that a child should not be picked up by the bailiff or the police, unless the child is in danger, so it is actually to protect the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161228	It could be someone else who picks up the baby. I don't mind at all. I don't have any religious feelings for it if someone else thinks it's fine that others are picking them up. That is quite fine; it is quite fine. However, there may also be individual situations where this may be necessary. Then I have to say: we do not have a vicious and terrible police in Denmark. We actually have some very good employees in the Danish police, who are able to handle the different situations. I get a little sad when you talk down to the police in this way and make it sound like they're gonna show up with helmets, protective gear and everything. That is not the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161310	Then we go to Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161312	Thank you. I would like to return to this debate on care and punishment. Does the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party think that this bill has elements of punishment? The rapporteur himself says that this means that a child who you are when you are 10, 11, 12 years old who is a suspect, that is to say a suspect, and who we do not know about has done anything, must appear before this board. Can the rapporteur answer me if there are elements of punishment in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161352	I don't think there is. And I do not think there is that in the example that was mentioned. Well, what's the difference? If we take a 10-year-old child who may have been suspected by the police for having done something and I should just like to point out that the suspect is there where, in normal circumstances, if a person had been above the age of criminality, the police had handed over the case, that is, where it had started running.What had happened to the current system versus the new system? Yes, with the current system you had been dragged into the municipality, but with the new system you come into a circle where more people can look at things from several different angles and decide which response to set. I don't think there's much punishment in that. I think there's common sense in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161436-2	The rapporteur's party is probably in the agreement because the rapporteur's party considers this to be common sense. I'm just trying to figure out what's in it and, as I see it, the difference is that what the child is going to meet now is, of course, a judge, police, just like we know it from the criminal justice system. And that is why my claim will be that it has moved a lot towards criminal law. I understand that it is not in the penal code, but I think it has moved in that direction. The sanctions which may be imposed on the child or young person also bear the stamp of punishment, or what is the rapporteur's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161520-2	I disagree with that too. The reactions that can be made are essentially the same as the reactions that can be taken today. So I don't think that argument holds up. That's one thing. The second thing is that the questioner says: yes, but what if you meet a judge? So, to put it bluntly, the judges I have met are now usually nice, friendly, decent people, so it is not because you use some who have fangs. So let's just take it really easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161553	Sir. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161556	Previously, Enhedslisten's rapporteur asked about the trade unions and interest groups supporting the proposal. That's what I'm left with. I simply do not see that there is much professionalism behind the proposal here. On the other hand, I would also like to say that I understand a great deal of the rapporteur's speech in such a logical, rational way. I might have thought of saying something of the same, because I'm also a politician. I am not an expert, which is why I always lean very much on the hearings. That is why it is very, very important to me that I actually recognise some of what the rapporteur and also the Social Democrat rapporteur say, namely that much of it has actually been accommodated in the consultation answers. It is possible, but I can still hardly see any of these experts backing the proposal, and I do not think Mrs Lund was given an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161638	Then I would like to try to respond. It is true that a large proportion of the organisations concerned are concerned about these two legislative proposals, and that is the case. We'll take that with us. The fact that I don't understand many of those concerns is another matter. And I think that some of that, frankly, is quite unspeakable and that some of the things that have been said in the public debate are quite unspeakable: child prisons, low age criminals in 10 years, at the edge of the conventions, and I could go on like that. I don't think that's a fair way of dealing with this. In fact, I am very sincere when I say that the system we are going to introduce, I think, is better than what we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161730	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161732	I would also like to mention this in my rapporteur's speech, but at least I still do not feel that the rapporteur can see, just as I myself do not see that the professional organisations, those who should have the expertise, are being consulted in this draft law. It may well be that we are getting better in relation to what the rapporteur thinks we have today, but it is for me to see a political view, it is not a professional view, and it can also be quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161759	Yeah, but this is a political debate, and that's the way it is. I do not believe that there are such major arguments in what has been asked about which raises any significant doubts about the agreement we have made. Yeah, what am I gonna say soon? I think what we have done is perfectly reasonable. I don't think there's that big breakup. There are quite a few parties that I think should sit down at the negotiating table to look through these things or should have done so some time ago instead of shouting out loud about this afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161836	I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod. I do not think there are any more who would like to make brief comments, because then we will be able to move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Can we calm down so that the rapporteur can hear himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106161859	Well, it's better that the others can hear it, too. Thank you. Today we are discussing the government's proposal to set up the Youth Crime Board, etc. The proposal has been debated in the press and some have been critical of the proposal. There have been factual and unspeakable criticisms, in my view; unfortunately, as several rapporteurs have pointed out, there have been extremely unspeakable criticisms. I shall not give you all the examples. Let me be blunt: the easiest thing would have been to do nothing. The easiest thing would have been to welcome the development of crime here in Denmark, including the development of juvenile delinquency, and then leave things as they are. Similarly, we could have left the ghettos to care for themselves, as many governments have done before us, and then in this government we would have avoided getting the scolds that we have now received here in the Folketing from the opposition around it. We could also have done the same thing around the rockers, yet the government chose to make a comprehensive rocker gang package. In the area of juvenile delinquency, as I said, we could have welcomed what has been correctly highlighted here in the Danish Parliament today, namely that fewer young people are going to have problems after all. We could have just closed our eyes to the hard core, the 1%. of a vintage which accounts for almost half of crime and thus with a certain boundless probability will be on the way to crime on a long, long track. The government didn't want that, and thank you for that. Six months ago, the Committee on Legal Affairs visited the Gellerup Park. We not only had the opportunity to talk to the representatives of the Brabrand Housing Association, we also had the opportunity to talk to the local police on the spot and for that matter also the Commissioner. We could hear that things were moving forward, but we could also hear four stories about four young children and their start on what I dare call a secure criminal career. There was the boy who committed his first break-in at the age of 13. Before he reached the age of 15, he was registered with the police 14 times, including cases of burglary, theft, robbery and general disorder. At the age of 17, he was registered 130 times with the police, among other things. concerning cases of arson, violation of the law of the knife, vandalism. At that time, he had been indicted in 15 criminal proceedings, I guess it was about six months ago. We could also see that his buddy started out at 8 with a shoplifting. Before his 15th birthday, he was registered 35 times by the police with arson cases, drugs, shoplifting, unrest, vandalism and robbery. At the age of 16, he was up to 65 registrations in connection with, among other things: biker involvement, and at that time he had been charged with 7 crimes. This is information I have from the police. As I said at the outset, the easiest thing for the government would have been nothing to do and let Per and Poul, Ahmed and Abdulla sail their own lake. The government just doesn't. If the proposal is adopted, the Youth Crime Board and the Youth Crime Service will be set up in accordance with the rules contained in the proposals, which time does not allow for a review of here at first reading. A board of judges, police and local authorities has been set up for consideration. It is not every offense that comes before the mention. These are cases in which the person concerned is suspected of serious personal crime or suspected of other crime with imminent risk of continuing. Finally, the 15 to 17-year-olds who have been convicted before the courts and who have received a judgment are subject to appeal after the decision of the court; then the case is transferred from the court to the court. The decision of the jury may be a punishment reaction of a more restorative nature. We have shown to skinlessness mentioned this with the fire truck to be washed, but it's just an example, it could also be the removal of graffiti and other. In addition, it can provide a longer-term improvement process, all after a concrete and individual assessment. It all takes place under the supervision of juvenile criminal services, which, as I understand it, will be a branch of criminal justice. But what about legal certainty? many people will say, and this has also been the subject of debate here today. It is surprising that we have not dealt in the past with legal certainty in the existing system, to which access for a young person today is also the suspicion of the police and where lawyers are only involved in forced removal, and where sanctions are practically the same as those we are now introducing: where is legal certainty? Well, that's something you can argue for. It doesn't make it any better to repeat it. I am surprised that no one has wondered where legal certainty is in the already existing system. But the reality is that the vast majority of these cases, apart from being very simple, are characterized by Peter not being punished in the sense of the penal code, but rather by a loving hand in order to get on the right track. But yes, and I can say that to Mrs Rosa Lund as a lawyer, I should not forget that some aspects of this may well remind me of punishment. Well, if Peter hates washing a fire truck, but the name comes with the decision that he should wash it, then I have to be honest and say that Peter will probably see it as a punishment. I can give more examples from my own youth, where I also have to say that there were things that I perceived as punishment, and yet I could not call for city law, land law or the Supreme Court; things have gone a little easier afterwards. But let me say: I was put outside the door several times and was also sat after. Well, I probably missed a criminal trial, but there were no processes. In other words, there are some systems to which it has to be said that if this is to work fairly quickly and reasonably smoothly, then there is no time for the very large procedure. I think we need to go where Mrs Rosa Lund herself said the right thing, namely that it may have a touch of criminal law, but I have to say that it is far, far away from traditional criminal proceedings. Enough about that! In addition to the things we are talking about here, we are also discussing L 85 on the extension of parental leave and parental leave, and here the aim is the same: an early social effort towards young people, whether by forcing parents to attend parent meetings or other measures contained in the relevant instructions. Finally, we are targeting the 24-hour institutions with the establishment of video surveillance of common areas for safety and the establishment of door alarms, in order to have greater control over things. All these actions from the Youth Crime Board to the Youth Crime Service and on to actions against parents and institutions are not amusing, but they are necessary. Finally, let me make it clear: the boards dealing with these matters are not North Korean tribunals. The judge is not a Commissioner whose purpose is to put a young man out of business, the police are not a secret folk police, and the Minister of Justice is not evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments and we will start with Mrs Trine Torp from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162724	Thank you. With this bill there will be a parallel system, you might say, to the municipalities with the Youth Crimes Board and the Youth Crime Service... a system that must be able to control the municipalities. There I would like to hear: how does it really relate to the Government's desire for holistic efforts and a cohesion reform, which is running in parallel here, that we are now inventing another body at the risk of everything falling between several chairs and that it can make it very unclear who is making the decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162801	I have tried to prepare myself for many questions and also brought many papers. I wasn't quite in on that, but I'm gonna have to make an honest attempt to answer that. I cannot relate to the cohesion reform, but I can say that what we are doing here is, of course, a system involving young people aged 10-17 years, and it is clear that it replaces the current system. We believe that this is a better system now, and I do not see the overlap that the questioner apparently sees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162835	But what is at least the facts is that it is a parallel system in which we do not necessarily know about the opportunities for the specific municipality to put some social efforts into action. So you spend 118 million. kr., or whatever it runs into, just to establish the system and make it run. This does not, of course, include the cost of the efforts that are then being made towards children and young people. They come on top of that, and it is worth noting that there will be some expenditure on which the municipalities are charged and on which they have no influence. Normally, there is such a principle in Denmark that those who decide are also the ones who pay, but that is not the way it is in this system. So I just want to know if the rapporteur's party has any views on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162921	So, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, these are, in fact, the same sanctions. We are moving competence over to a board, and it is, of course, about the same sanctions that are being applied. That is why it is probably also roughly the same expenditure for the municipalities, so I do not see the problem that the questioner sees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162940	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106162942	I take note in the rapporteur's speech of the fact that we other people, who are critics of the draft law, are being blamed for the fact that we will just stand by and, if we have given that impression in any way, I must quickly regret it. Because this isn't a question of whether to do something or not. Because we are only finished when there is not a single child who lives exposed, is at risk of crime or is living under the extreme social problems that the young people we are talking about today are actually doing. So let's start with that. It is not a question of not doing anything, it is a question of doing the right thing, and that is the problem with the government's legislative proposal. We disagree that this is the right thing to do. It is children's organisations, law professors, trade unions, social workers who are also involved in these matters. In other words, it is funny how everyone outside who works with vulnerable children is of the opinion that it is possible to exacerbate the problems while the government really thinks a golden egg has been found. Then what makes it not just a touch of punishment, but a punishment-like system? Yes, it is police and judges, it is quick consequences and everything else; it is that everything must be the same and that the individual is not taken into account and that the fact that you commit crime when you are a child is linked to family problems, with social problems, with violence, abuse and abuse. Children do not just do such things for fun or for themselves, which is why you can't just send a police officer out and hit a child on top of your head. You create counter-reactions instead. That's what all the experts say. So is the rapporteur not concerned that the experts are right, that is to say that young people will only react with counter-reaction to this criminal justice-like system and that this will make the problems worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106163141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106163142	After all, it was a longer round that contained up to several questions, but we can take the last one first. Because it is actually an excellent example of communication when Mrs Pernille Skipper says that one should of course understand this in a figurative sense... send the police out and give someone one on top of her head, and at the same time complain that the organisations have not had any influence. I can say that one of the points that has just been made in the previous proposal is that the police should not act in uniform when they are out, and have also mentioned a number of other options for not picking up the police. So, as I said, this is not a police system, but it is the one that assesses whether you need the police action and, as I said, if it is used, it is made as lax as possible. About the organisations: yes, we have 179 people here to adopt the country's legislation, and we listen to the organisations, and they are also among those who have said in the past that we have not done so and that we should have done something quite different. I'm sitting here with 19 pages on relationships I assume that it's available somewhere... that's changed in the original bill due to consultation responses. So I think that this very thing has been the subject of treatment, even outside Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106163307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106163307-2	It is so good that some minor changes have been made. However, the criticism from child organisations, from legal experts, from professors, from social workers, from social educators, all those who have long education and years of experience in working with extremely vulnerable children, is, of course, that some minor changes have been made, but this system is basically at risk of doing more harm to children than it is beneficial because it is a criminal justice-like system, as the rapporteur himself says. It is a system based on the fact that, if it is not with a punishment in the real sense of the penal code, it must be punished. And when I say it with the police and a gook in the nut, of course it's figuratively important. Is not the concern justified, that is, that the young person will react to it and go another way?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106163405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106163407	You can never rule that out, but I don't think so. I think it is a very good proposal that contributes to a hand-held and individual effort towards young people, and therefore I cannot share that view at all. I know that professors are referred to, and without mentioning names, I would like to say that I have seen a speech from a former professor. And let me just say that I am neither impressed nor in agreement with that, and the way in which children's organisations publish this proposal I shall not go into it. But it is the Folketing that decides what to say in the law, and we have listened very much to the organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106163447	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, and welcome to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106163459	Thank you. As you know, the two legislative proposals we are discussing today are the implementation of the agreement of the government, the DF and the Social Democrats on combating juvenile delinquency. When we have this debate in the Chamber today, and when you listen to the debate that has taken place both after the summer holidays and before the summer holidays, you could quickly get the impression that we in Denmark have major problems with juvenile delinquency. We don't. Fortunately, juvenile delinquency is falling, and that would suggest that some of what we are doing today actually works, that there are elements in the system we have today that work, and I think that is worth considering while we have this debate in the Chamber today. Having said that, we are certainly not in the finish line, and I think it is very sensible to discuss how to eliminate juvenile delinquency, so that no one ends up in a criminal career. So it is not a question of how I am convinced, however, that the two legislative proposals we are discussing today are not part of the solution. The proposal says that it seeks to achieve remedial justice, i.e. that the person who committed the crime should relax and restore to what has been done. I think that is very sympathetic. If this is to work, the person who committed the crime must be involved and help to make decisions about what is going to happen. It is, of course, the case that if you are part of the decision, you will feel a responsibility. If you are part of the decision to help clean up a fire truck yourself, you have set an example that we have heard earlier in the Chamber today; if you are going to help remove some graffiti that you have been stopped from painting; if you have been caught doing vandalism and have to clean it up; if you are going to help make that decision yourself, you will feel a greater responsibility. Fortunately, this can already be done with the system we have today, and that is not even what this bill is about. Actually, I don't think it's close at all. For responsibility in relation to the person who committed the crime, the young person or the child, and I think it is important that we just remember to hold on to the fact that we are talking about children as young as ten years old. We are now being taken away from the social system and put into something very similar to criminal law, namely a juvenile delinquency board where the young person or the child meets a judge, police and a very court-like system. It will be for me to see a lifted index finger from the outside that punishes, and you cannot punish children and young people to be better people and get on the wrong track. But you can raise them and support them to do so, and it is important to remember that these are children who need something much more than punishment. I therefore disagree with the previous rapporteurs who have mentioned that these two legislative proposals should be an expression of concern. I certainly do not think so. Children of all ages need to be met with positive expectations from the adults around them and not negative, because it can help keep them in a bad running path, and in the Enhedslisten we will not be able to stamp children as low as 10 years of age. I agree, in fact, when it has been said that there must be a rapid response when a young person or a child shows a criminal behaviour, but a proper response needs to be made. I also agree that it can have a good and educational effect if the young person is helping to clean up crime, but the young person must be involved and, instead of the court-like system proposed, the young person must meet with strong sp cooperation. We believe that cooperation in the Enhedslisten should be given priority so that it gets faster and better. It could, for example, be done. Priority is given to employing social workers in schools. For it is the continuous work with the child or the young person that makes all the difference. It is not that some other adults, whom the child or young person does not know at all, come from outside with a raised index finger. What makes the difference when a young person or a child is exposed or at risk of crime is the continuous work of some adults that the child knows, trusts and trusts. Children as young as 10 years do not belong in a secure institution, even if this is the case today. I believe that we can be against something, even if it is the case today and they do not belong at all to institutions which, according to the proposal here, will have increased powers. In fact, the majority of the heads of the secured institutions are strongly opposed to this bill. A survey by SL shows this. I think it is worth noting that professionals and here I am not talking about them, as some in here claim to have misunderstood something about criminal low-age and such things, I do not mention that at all, I am talking about professionals who have everyday life with the young people, those who are in the secured institutions, are very critical of this bill and therefore do not demand it. I think it is worth noting that several of the institutions point to the fact that they already have the necessary measures and that they are not calling for new tools. A good example is the institution called the compass. They have a fuse room. It is an empty room with a mattress on the floor where the young can be isolated for max. 2 hours while they are constantly being video-monitored. According to Danske Regioner's annual statistics for the secured 24-hour institutions, the compass did not use the security room at all in 2016, and in 2017 it was only used four times. So this isn't something that's being asked for. Another important point I think is about the target group. If you are a child who is at one of these institutions, you will usually be in a very vulnerable position yourself. One thing is that you are at risk of crime, another is that you are an exposed child who has been the victim of failure and perhaps even abuse through his or her upbringing. This means that the young people in these institutions often do not have the ability to assess the consequences of their own actions, and therefore the consequences and penalties will not bring young people away from crime either. For they simply do not have the ability to evaluate it. That is why I think it would be better if we gave the institutions the opportunity to teach young people how to understand the consequences of their actions and to give them these tools. So we are not doing this by detailing the institutions by, for example, regulating them. We must establish a house order that they have a duty to video monitor and all these demands that we are now making on the institutions. I think that we will see very, very strong results if social education were to be freed and those we are actually training to take care of these young people were allowed to do their job. So now that we're looking at this area, let's do more of what we know works. Let us involve schools, let us involve leisure institutions, strengthen networking and increase the resources for sp and ensure that all children become part of binding communities very early, as this is a very important factor in preventing crime, and we should also support initiatives from here to ensure that young people get easier access to a leisure job, an internship and complete their education. There are many things in this area that we know are both preventive and that we also have very clear indications that can prevent young people from getting into a criminal career, and I think we should do that instead. I do not think it comes as a surprise that the Enhedslisten cannot support these two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164325	Thank you. There are two brief comments. One of them's from sir. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164331	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Yes, it is probably no secret that we are not agreeing on this issue, to say the least, but there is something I would like to hear from the rapporteur, and this is what happens when it is said in the rapporteur's speech that it would stamp out the fact that I shall see whether I am quoting correctly young people as young as ten years. I think that was what was said. Then I just can't help thinking that, as it is today, if you're young or a child and 10 years old and the police suspect you're doing something that's very bad, then you have to go to the municipality. In the future, you're gonna have to go to a jury. In other words, does the rapporteur not think, if we are to follow the logic of being stamped, that we are already doing so by the municipality? Well, I really do not see that what we are doing here should be significantly worse. It's not like it's about branding people. It is not a matter of people dragging around a criminal record for the rest of their lives. I simply do not understand the reaction of the left. Now I'm just gonna ask you about this stamping thing. If we were to buy the argument that we should stamp out in the future, do we not stamp out today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164442	It is quite possible that we do so. I think there is a significant difference between meeting the system we are meeting today and looking at meeting a judge and meeting the police on a board, which is what is in this bill. That is why I see this clearly as, what can we call it, a tightening up of the way the law is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164501-2	Okay, we'll leave that alone. Then I will move on to something else, and it is that the rapporteur said that we must do what works. And I agree that we should do so. I strongly believe that what we are doing here will work. However, the rapporteur was also on a trip to another country, Holland, last week and, by the way, thank you for a good trip, I thought it was a nice trip, but some of what I remember was that juvenile crime in the Netherlands too is declining, just as it is in Denmark, and that is wonderful. I know they have a completely different system down there, a real court-like system with a lower criminal low age. So if you ask, on the basis of objective criteria, what they do in the Netherlands, which makes crime fall among young people, they will say that it is because they have a system that works. The reason why I take this up is that I also believe that what we are doing here is working, but I think that we are looking at it too unilaterally by saying that there is just a fall in crime, because we see this also in countries which, to put it mildly, have a completely different system from what we have in Denmark, a system that is difficult to compare with what we are doing here. I just think it's kind of a lame argument just to ask that crime doesn't just fall? So I would like to ask something else, and that is: What if crime suddenly increases or has been increasing? Would the rapporteur have agreed to this if the scenario were different, namely that crime was increasing rather than falling?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164628	Well, it's always hard to disagree with the phrase: let's do what works. I can see that. If crime was increasing, I'm not sure this would be the solution either. I'm actually pretty sure that wouldn't be the solution. I will still insist that what would be the solution was to create a strengthened sp cooperation. After all, sp cooperation has suffered a great deal from border controls and from the tasks that have generally been rained down on the police from in here. So I would say that if we had an increase in juvenile delinquency, we should strengthen sp cooperation, then we should strengthen some of the many initiatives that exist, such as: working to get young people at risk of crime in leisure jobs, thereby making them part of a binding community, so that they feel responsible for getting up in the morning and going to do their job, just to give the rapporteur an example. I would also like to say that it is a good thing for the Netherlands that they also have a falling juvenile delinquency, but I certainly do not agree that they are doing it the right way. I mean, for example. It is not that we in Denmark should lower the age of crime, but that is not what we are debating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164730	Before we go any further, I would like to politely, but urge that we try to keep the times. It's 1 minute the first time and 1⁄2 minute the second time. Pretty much everybody pulls it. I know you're very committed to this debate, and it's commendable, but we have to try to keep time just a little bit. Mrs. Karina Due from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164752	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. Mrs Lund talks a lot about this being a court-like relationship, and I would like Mrs Lund to clarify what she means by that. Because when I look at the bill, I see nothing more courtlike than there being a judge present. The name consists of the judge, who is not wearing a cape or wig or anything, and then there is a police officer, not a police officer in uniform, but a police officer, and then there is a representative of the municipality. Every time you've talked about who's on this board, nobody has mentioned the representative of the municipality, who among other things. could be a sp-worker. So I'd like to know where the courtesy comes in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164842	Well, it comes in precisely through the points mentioned by the rapporteur himself, namely that you meet a judge and that you meet the police. It doesn't matter whether it's a police officer or a police officer, because it's someone who's with the authority, the police, and that's exactly what makes it justice-like.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164859	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164859-2	I simply cannot get it to vote, that is, that it should be different from when you come in and need help from the municipality today. After all, it is also officials who sit there. What difference does it make that it is another authority? I just don't see the difference. And then to call it court-like we're not going into a courtroom.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164925	I think it makes a really big difference that the child or the young person here meets a judge. I think that makes a very big difference, and that is what makes the court-like, that is, that there is a judge present.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164938	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106164941	I'd like to stick to this because it was supposed to be court-like because there's a judge with it. Today there is also a judge on a forced removal committee. Does Mrs Rosa Lund think that this is a court-like situation there? And does Mrs Rosa Lund not think that it is better for a judge, an employee from the municipality and a police officer to assess the child or young person on the basis of professional knowledge than it is today, where it is politicians? This means that it may be a politician from the Danish People's Party and a politician from the Conservatives who ultimately decide on a matter because they have a majority. Is it not better, after all, that it is a child-educated judge, one from the police who is trained in dealing with children, and one from the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165030	Thank you for the question. In fact, I wish it was an employee who had a social education that helped to do this, and not a judge. That is, of course, what helps to make it justice-like, and that is what I think bears so much emphasis on punishment, according to the debate that Mrs Trine Bramsen and I had in the Chamber earlier today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165051	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165052	After all, I did not get an answer to my questions: is it also a court when a judge is sitting on the forced removal committees today? And is it not better that in future it will be a child-educated judge, a child-educated student from the municipality and one from the police than it is today where politicians make decisions? This may mean that one from the Danish People's Party and one from the Conservatives sits and decides what to do with a child.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165118-2	Then I will try to answer Mrs Trine Bramsen's question by simply saying that I am not working on social policy. I'm working on legal policy, and that's why I've dealt with this bill. I must admit quite frankly that I do not know much about forced removals. But I think that what would be best in this case when we talk about juvenile delinquency would be that there was a social professional education, for example. a social educator, and not a judge or a politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165147	Thank you, Mrs Lund, and warmly welcome to Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165206	Thank you. The two legislative proposals we co-examine implement a number of initiatives from the agreement reached by the government with the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party on a reform of the fight against juvenile delinquency. I also think, in the light of the debate that we have had for a very long time now, that it is important to establish that the criminal low age in Denmark is 15 years old and that children are not going to prison. That is the case today, and it will be the same after we have dealt with and, hopefully, adopted these legislative proposals. The draft laws establish a juvenile crime board and a juvenile criminal welfare service. The Juvenile Crime Board is to deal with cases involving children aged 10-17 who, in one way or another, have their feet on their way into a criminal career and thus potentially with the prospect of a slightly dim future. It can, for example, be done. It could be cases of robbery, it could be cases of rape, and it could be cases of drug trafficking. In the Liberal Alliance, we are aware that the Youth Crime Board is being set up in order to tailor a holistic and targeted crime prevention effort for the young with the aim of lifting the young person out of crime and back into the community and hopefully for a better future than the young person would have if we just watched. The Youth Crime Board can determine what is called an immediate reaction, which is of an educational nature. It can, for example, be done. Be that as it may, the young man has to clean up after vandalism. We think that the consequences for the young person should be meaningful. It is also worthwhile. It should be quick, and it should basically make young people understand that if you commit crime, it has consequences, just as any other action we commit in this life has consequences for us. Youth Criminal Services must monitor the young person's compliance with the decisions of the Youth Crime Board. It is important that we take action to help young people who are at risk of becoming involved in criminal activities, rather than pulling their shoulders. We are delighted that things are going better, because they are doing so, but we are not in the end. That is why we support the initiatives that we in the Liberal Alliance think are really very good and, as we believe in this, the evaluation will show that in fact they will also have a positive effect on the children and young people that this is actually about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165500	There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165504	Thank you. I just want to know if the Liberal Alliance can't be a little worried about this tendency to criminalise social problems in this way. And I'm just gonna grab some of that. I mean, I do not use a word like child imprisonment, but I do think that there are some such basic things that are taken from young people, such freedoms if they come to a secure department: video surveillance of indoor common rooms 24 hours a day; door alarms for all rooms by standard; a mandatory house order, which is determined nationally; pull in the pocket money if you do not comply with the house order; more opportunities for close body search, without being protected by the Code of Procedure; increased access to physical force, for example. if the child does not comply with the house order, etc. Does the Liberal Alliance have no concern that in this way we are actually depriving vulnerable children and young people of some of the fundamental freedoms?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165611-2	But the premise of the questioner's question is based on an incorrect basis, because the questioner starts by asking whether we are not concerned about criminalising social problems. I'd be very worried about that if that's what we did, but that's not what we're doing. There is no addition to the criminal code with these initiatives. Nothing is being criminalised by these laws, which are not already criminal. Then we can talk about the framework for how we deal with it when crime is committed, i.e. when acts are being carried out, which are also now criminals. And there I am glad that with this board we have a more holistic and broader perspective on young people and on the individual situation of young people than what we have today. But that is not what the questioner is saying, namely that we are criminalising social problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165711	No, but if they end up in a secure section, the rapporteur must agree that what is being introduced here is a whole series of powers which do not exist today, which can be used generally in all the branches of security, and where there is no specific individual assessment on the basis of which these rules of force are applied. Does it not concern the rapporteur at all that in this way we are imposing restrictions and restrictions on the freedom of these vulnerable children and young people, by being able to be treated in such a way in sheltered departments?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165750	However, it is not the case that young people today cannot be placed in a secure institution even down to 10 years old. I think that is a very big misunderstanding, which is important to get rid of. It is not the case today that if you are 11 or 12 years old and commit something grossly criminal, you cannot be placed in a secure institution. You can do that. The difference is who decides to be placed in a secure institution. And there I think, and one must disagree with that, that it is the panel of knowledgeable adults that we are now putting together on this board to make an individual decision for the young person with a view to the life and circumstances of the young person in general. However, there is no question that new groups of young people who today cannot do so will be able to be placed in sheltered institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165845	Thank you, Mrs. Christina Egelund, and welcome to Mr. René Gade from Silkeborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106165854	The alternative also exists in Silkeborg, and throughout Denmark, and we are growing. As far as this bill is concerned, it is one of the fantastic days to be a politician, because I am going into the Chamber and have a fairly clear mandate from my parliamentary group. We have listened to the experts, we have read through the hearings, and that is actually also where I am now, after I have heard all the good speeches. I mean, we are against this bill, but on the other hand, I do want to go back and find out what it is that makes us not agree with the rapporteurs who have actually made some very good speeches and who are in favour of the bill. I said earlier in a question to the DF's rapporteur, Mr. Peter Kofod that I could almost have made the speech he made in favour of the proposal. That sounded very reasonable, I thought. My problem, then, is that when all the experts, all the professionals and institutions that we tend to lean on in the hearings, it seems to be at least as I have read them so far, very critical, then as a politician I have really difficulty in supporting the proposal. We have this in the alternative in general if the consultations are going in exactly the opposite direction. But now we are politicians, so we must also make ambitious decisions if we think we need to move in a completely different direction. I just haven't been convinced yet, but there I have a job for myself in committee. There are some people with whom I, as the new legal rapporteur, am going to have a dialogue with not just my colleagues in here, but some of the experts who have spoken. Because it may well be that some of those who have spoken out a little too skirmished and took part in this political debate and perhaps painted things up from the interests that they are supposed to defend, so that it becomes an even more black and white picture than what we in the alternative are currently doing. Seems there is. It is ahead of us, but as a starting point I would say: it is against what we stand for in the alternative. We would also like to fight juvenile delinquency. I think most parties will. I think all parties will. I think all parties will, but once the damage has been done, what are we supposed to do? And I am also inclined to remind you that we are taking something from the social area and putting it into a criminal framework. Not that I am legally competent, but it is the whole wording of some of the examples that have come up that it is the police that have to pick up instead of others. Well, maybe that's details, but there's got to be a reason why the experts say we shouldn't do this. I think that is very healthy for those who are listening to the debate here today. It may be that you really think the government's proposals are really, really good, but how can it be that so many of them know so much about it and that we have employed to perform these functions in society that think it is bad? We'll have to take a look at that. I may be wiser, but the alternative is therefore against the proposal as it stands. To inaugurate others a little in how we work on things here in the Danish Parliament and at least in the Alternative, I can say that while I have been sitting in the Chamber, I have been able to be in dialogue with our advisors who have been sitting and examining whether it really can be true that so many of these answers have been accepted as I have heard from among others. Social Democrat rapporteur. Yes, a great deal has actually been achieved, but so far that is not enough for us in the alternative. Now we have to see where we land, but the alternative is against the legislative proposals so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170200	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170205	One thing, of course, is to disagree with something, that is fair enough, but in fact I have very much respect for the rapporteur's speech, which Mr. René Gade holds here, in relation to the fact that you may want to explore some things or learn more about some things or see it from another angle. I think that's quite fair. In fact, I think it deserves some credit that you stand up and say that we need to have a second look at this. So I would like to thank you for that. I do not have a question, but I would just like to say that if we can help in any way with the work of the Legal Affairs Committee to look at these two legislative proposals, then the alternative must finally come, because then we would like to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170247	I will then commit myself to accepting that invitation. It will then be our first meeting as legal rapporteurs. There is nothing new in what I am saying, because I think we all agree that we should interrogate ourselves and become wiser. But thank you for the rose.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170259	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170305	I would also like to express my support for the rapporteur's speech. I think that is a very good way to go to such a debate. For the Social Democrats, it is really important that we follow this work and this agreement very closely, so that we follow the legislation very closely, and I hope that the alternative in this respect will also contribute. I think everyone has the same wish, and that is that young people should not grow up to become hard-boiled criminals, and if you want to break the food chain to the crime they commit when they get older, you have to start somewhere, and it is probably best that it is when young people start committing crime. However, what I would like to ask is whether the rapporteur does not think it is a pity that some otherwise very good organisations, which are usually extremely credible, have misunderstood as much of the proposal as is the case here. The word 'child imprisonment' is used, and it is said that it is about the introduction of a court of law and the lowering of the low age of criminals, which is, after all, strongly contradicted in the hearings from the Ministry of Justice. Isn't it a shame when you get a hearing answer that's so high on the ball?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170420	I'm at the moment. not competent enough to judge whether they have spoken wrong or whether they have simply misunderstood something or used violent words. I have been handed down by several rapporteurs that this is the case. If it had been in the field of business, IT and perhaps tax, I would have been a little more categorical in saying what I thought was right and wrong. I'm new to justice, and I'd better get in on what's really going on. It sounds like the fronts have been pulled up sharply, but I am usually able to rely very much on both the wording and the level of the consultation answers we receive. So I cannot say yes to that, because I simply do not know if it is true that they are wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170502	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170503	Then I can just say that this is the first time in my five years as a legal rapporteur that I have seen some hearing answers that, unfortunately, have been so wrong. I think that is a pity, because they are so important in our political work, and we must at least be able to rely on the factual content of them to be correct. Because we're so leaning on them. I just had one last question. If a child or a young person is stabbing another child or another young person with a knife, who will the rapporteur himself call? Now it sounds like the police are very, very violent, but who would the rapporteur call if one late night he went on the street and there was one child who was stabbing someone else with a knife?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170546-2	If I were in a situation where I or my family felt insecure, I'd probably call the police. I shall not go into the specific example we are talking about here. I would just like to follow up the point made by the questioner about the answers to the hearings and the lack of validity in them. If we find out and I have to find out that they're wrong, then I have to be the first to come and say that for a rare time there were some answers we couldn't count on. I have also heard criticism from elsewhere, among others. from the Left rapporteur, so I have to come back to that, but it should surprise me.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170620	Thank you, sir. René Gade from the Alternative, and welcome to Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106170628	Thank you. Childhood has value in itself. We don't choose who our parents are, but the first months and years of our lives are absolutely crucial for the rest of our lives, how much Mom and Dad look into our eyes, how much they're babbling with us, how much they're playing with us. All children are born curious and loving, and we are only what our parents like give us the chance to mirror us in. This is why this is for me as a radical one of the worst legislative proposals this year, because the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, will send children down to 10 years in something that looks like a prison: less focus on the social effort and more punishment. The Children's Council, the educators and the social workers say in their hearing answer that this is really a reduction in the age of crime. What's the Minister of Justice's equivalent to that? It's a misunderstanding. The children just need more tangible action, more consistency, but there will be video surveillance, you can lock up, you can use force, and it will be no less prison-like when you say it is not a prison. Children's Terms and Children's Council says that children will experience this system as a criminal system, although we know from the research that it is bad for children that children, when they come into contact with a criminal system, will identify with a criminal and therefore also risk becoming more criminal of it. What kind of children are we talking about? Children's Terms describe it very well in their hearing response. They write that these are children and young people who may have been victims of neglect of care and may be struggling with addiction problems and diagnoses such as: Adhd. As a result, many of these children and young people will have a lower level of cognitive function than peers, and they will be more inattentive, more hyperactive and more impulse-driven than other children. They have problems in understanding the correlation between cause and effect, and therefore a consistent immediate reaction will not have the crime prevention effect that has been taken into account. This bill does not contain provisions, ambitions and resources to develop new knowledge of prevention and quality in the pedagogical practice that the Crime Prevention Council is calling for. And what kind of problem do you want to solve? In the years of the current system, juvenile delinquency has fallen dramatically. The social workers' association believes that the current system has worked very well and they are unaware of why a new system should be introduced. It doesn't make sense. On my way here, I was riding by a poster with Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who wants to be the prime minister of the children, but you are not the prime minister of the children if you do this. Ten-year-olds still sleep with teddy bears, and they don't have to be isolated or in prison, they need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171020	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171023	I would like to say that I am actually somewhat surprised by the speech by the rapporteur of the Radicals, because this suggests that the rapporteur has not read the comments made by the Ministry of Justice, where the allegations made by the rapporteur are knocked down one by one. For no, it is not a question of child imprisonment, and I think that is clear to everyone who has been in this debate today. I would actually like to ask the rapporteur what she then calls the institutions we have today. Because it is the case that precisely the same young people who will be able to be placed in institutions in the future will be placed in institutions today, even down to 10 years, and for the closed institutions you cannot open the door and go out. So what is the rapporteur's view of the institutions that children and young people are being placed in today, if they are child imprisonment in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171122	Firstly, we are taking the wrong step here by opening up more use of force, which we do not have today, and secondly, I heard well before that the Socialists tried to say that all the child organisations, social workers, educators must have completely misunderstood this bill. Actually, I don't think it's a misunderstanding. I think that when they say it looks like prisons, it's because they're looking at what it is you'd be able to do in these places. People don't say it's a prison, but it's not gonna be less prison by just saying it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171201	I did not get an answer to my question: what is today, if it is not child imprisonment, but in the future it is child imprisonment. Because today it is the case that you can place exactly the same 10 to 16-year-olds in these institutions as you will be able to do in the future, so what do we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171221	We have secured institutions today, but what is new in the draft law is that greater powers for the use of force will be given here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171233	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171235	Thank you. I was, I must honestly admit, rattling down the chair when I heard the rapporteur's speech. I think what was said was crazy, I have to say that. So it was a crazy speech. The last time we had a debate with each other in this Chamber, the rapporteur was told that it was, I think, Trumpian conditions. I guess that's how I felt about the speech. There was a Trumpsk relationship to the truth and to the bill in what was said from Parliament's platform. The rapporteur concluded by saying: 10-year-olds are not going to prison, that was something there, and we certainly agree on that. Well, I don't think I've heard a single member of the Folketing say that 10-year-olds are going to jail. I would like to know with what evidence the Radical Legal Rapporteur is standing on the floor of the Parliament's platform and depicting it as if someone would like to put ten-year-olds in prison. Nobody wants to. And neither do we with this bill. So if the radical legal rapporteur thinks that we, those of us who have concluded this agreement, are putting ten-year-olds in prison, then I would like to ask for a justification for that from the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171343	I did not mean to provoke the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. My last sentence was, in fact, just inspired by what the Danish Teachers' Association writes in their hearing answer, namely that instead of isolating children and sending them into something reminiscent of prisons, we should help them much more than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171405	So now it's just like prisons. Some people have also believed that these were child prisons. I do not know whether the Radical rapporteur thinks so. I am not going to know whether the rapporteur means it, but what is making these institutions in the future as terrible as they are not doing today? So, I simply cannot understand in concrete terms what kind of breach it is, such as the one we are discussing here today. The Radical Left believes that we can see what the rest of us cannot see. What is it that makes this bill so terrible? At least I can't see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171437	When you video-monitor when you lock up, when you have to use physical power, that's what several organizations point to. This is among other things. The Children's Council and Save the Child, who says it looks like prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171456	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171458	I kind of like it when you use passion in politics, but it doesn't work that passion so overshadows the facts. And I actually agree with the previous one that when you do, it kind of reminds me of Trump. And I think in particular that the last part of the rapporteur's speech could have been taken out of Donald Trump's very passionate mouth. I would actually like to follow up on the question that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen proposed, where it is in these draft legislations, that the rapporteur can point out that we intend to send children of 10 years of age away from their beds with teddy bears and into prison, as the rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171541	It is actually a bit strange that the rapporteur thought that my speech was so passionate, because it is actually one of the speeches I have made where there is the least of my own words. Most of the speech was actually based on the consultation answers, and I shall tell Anders Bondo, who wrote the last sentence that children should not be isolated or in prison, that the rapporteur thought it was particularly passionate. The difference is, of course, that we have increased powers here, that the institutions we have today will enable us to have video surveillance, that physical power can be used and that we must be able to lock the doors, and that is what makes it possible for the children to experience it as a prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171635	Good to be inspired by Anders Bondo and other good people, I think that is quite fine, but as legislators in Parliament we have a responsibility to ensure that what we say is actually true. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether she still believes that it is a fair representation of the bill to stand on the platform and claim that we intend to send children of 10 years old to prison, because that is what the rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171704	What I am referring to here is that we have the Children's Council, Save the Children and others who say that the elements introduced by the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, make it look like prison. And we in the Radical Left are against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171723	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171725	The moon is a green cheese. What if I say it enough times, it's gonna be right? I would like to make it clear that in Denmark there are no child prisons, there will be no child prisons, and we will never see children in prison. Having said that, would the radical rapporteur not agree with me that, when you were in government with the Socialists, you put forward a proposal for a package on combating juvenile delinquency, which actually looks like this? And then it's that I don't understand what's wrong now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171810	What was important to us when we made that package was that it should be people who know the child who make the decision and not that what is here is something similar to a court of law. And then I just want to say thank you to the Danish People's Party for saying so clearly that you do not want to send children to prison; so I also assume that you say clearly no to putting the criminal low age down.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171840	No, we don't. We're not gonna put the criminal low age down. It's gonna stay where it's been all the time. But we are not going to vote against this proposal because it is a very good proposal. Ten-year-olds must sleep with their teddy bears; yes, they must. 99.9% Of the 10-year-olds sleeping with their teddy bears. But there is a tiny part that is hard-boiled criminals, and I suppose we should take care of them somewhere, and that is what we are giving the opportunity to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171914	I think I would just say to this whole debate that, in fact, I find it a little strange that it is allowed to become such a debate where the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party believe that all the organisations must have misunderstood it, rather than discussing what is contained in it, namely that there will be scope for increased powers. There's a reason the organizations are shouting and saying it's like a prison. So let us discuss why it is a good idea to do so, instead of going the other way, which is what we in the Radical Left believe in, where we prevent and where we strengthen social work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171955	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106171957	Thank you. Now I am not asking according to the Danish Teachers' Association's view of the bill, but I am asking about the Radical Left's view of the bill. Where in the bill does it say we can send children to jail with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172011	What is the problem with this bill is the introduction of powers which make it possible for children to experience it in prison-like conditions. That is what the children's organisations are pointing out, and I think that is a perfectly reasonable criticism and which I wish we could discuss instead of the government trying to make it a discussion of words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172036	And then I ask again: does the Radical Left believe that the bill says that we can send children to prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172044-2	What I am saying is that power is being introduced which means that, for children, it will be experienced in prison-like conditions. We in the Radical Left think that is quite the wrong way to go. We think that what we should be discussing today was all that the Crime Prevention Council is asking for, namely where all the preventive action is needed to help children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172111	Thank you very much to Mrs Lotte Rod and warmly welcome to Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172118	It is the Minister for Justice who makes the bill, not the Minister for Social Affairs. The legislative proposals are dealt with in the Legal Affairs Committee, not in the Social Affairs Committee. In the SF, we see it as social policy to adopt laws for socially vulnerable children and young people, and that is why I, as social rapporteur, speak on behalf of the SF in relation to the legislative proposals. I am concerned about the paradigm shift in which the changes in the law are an expression of where children and young people's dissatisfaction and exposure, which are reflected in problematic outward-looking behaviour, must be dealt with in a completely different system than if their exposure, for example, is to be addressed. was expressed in self-destructive actions. The aim of setting up the Youth Crime Board is, according to the proposal, to prevent juvenile delinquency for children and young people between the ages of 10 and 17. The big paradox is that juvenile delinquency has just fallen and fallen over the past many years. We therefore have a solid success, first and foremost because the municipalities are making better and more coherent efforts, which are often well coordinated with the police, for example. SSP cooperation. We should analyse and build on that success so that it could be even better, because of course it can be better. There are still children who are not getting enough help and who could easily, as a social system, move even closer to them and their families. A wide range of consultation responses reflect scepticism from a wide range of child-care organisations and legal experts that we usually listen to and involve. Organizations such as the Children's Council, the Children's Conditions, the Institute of Human Rights, the Social Advisors, the Social Pedagogues, the National Association of Municipalities, the Council of Lawyers and the Think Tank Justitia point out, for example. all in their consultation responses to massive challenges in the proposals. The Ministry calls it misunderstandings, and the Minister and others have been out calling it a scaremongering when the critical voices of the organizations have sounded. But when so many consultation parties misunderstand, it must be the law that is exceptionally unclear. I would like to look at some of the problems we see in the SF with the proposals. Firstly, we believe that the proposal comes very close to lowering a criminal low age to 10 years. With a judge at the table of the Youth Crime Board, a representative of the police and a municipal representative, crime will be at the top of the assessment of the case. Only in some cases will there also be a child lawyer present who can assist but who is not a member of the board with the right to vote. Children between the ages of 10 and 14 come for the mention alone on suspicion and following the decision of the police. Youth Criminal Services must monitor the implementation of the agreed interventions, and this means that, overall, we will have a new extension to the judicial system and to the criminal services for children down to 10 years of age. They will be imposed by a judge on sanctions equivalent to community service, and the police will be deployed at all stages to implement the cases and decisions. It's quite problematic in our eyes. Secondly, we believe that there is reason to be sceptical about how thoroughly the individual child's relationship will be examined; today, rules have been worked out for studies in children's cases developed over the last 25 years, namely section 50 studies. The new system comes in several ways to make up for that approach. The Youth Crime Board must first and foremost work quickly and with consistency, so that the municipalities only have a week to investigate the conditions for young people between the ages of 15 and 18 and 3 weeks for children between the ages of 10 and 14 before the police send the cases into the list. Thus, the legislative proposals in several ways attack the previous practice of thorough investigations, and we believe this in SF is a serious undermining of the foundation stone of work with vulnerable children and families. Thirdly, the bill will lead to a two-tier system in which the Youth Crime Board has only a weak connection with the municipalities and does not know the specific possibilities in each municipality. At the same time, however, it must be possible to impose immediate reactions and improvements on children up to 4 years of age. The municipalities have to make the specific visits and have to pay everything, but the mention has the decision-making authority, and the Youth Criminal Services follow up on implementation, in addition, at the same time as the municipal follow-up. This will inevitably lead to superficial decisions and standard solutions, which will have a major impact on the effort itself, and in addition, school free time provision, employment and education are far away from the mention of all factors that are crucial to the child. Fourthly, there are the secured institutions which the proposal proposes to change systematically. The terms of the secured departments will be amended by the bill with a wide range of extended powers, video surveillance, mandatory housekeeping, pocket money pulls, more opportunities for close body search, increased access to physical force, etc. Even more serious is the fact that everything must be managed by the Ministry of Justice, which knows nothing about the specific circumstances and the educational work of the individual institution. The principle of proportionality has been forgotten in the proposed changes to the terms. Moreover, it is surprising that just two years ago we adopted the law on adult responsibility on the basis of a broad political agreement, albeit under the auspices of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which among other things. was based on a thorough preparatory work in the Committee on Power Use, where it was just not recommended to make this kind of extension of power which is on the table now. What are we going to do about political agreements if they do not even get to work before they are changed by a smaller majority? All in all, we in the SF believe that the proposals are a serious breach of the approach we have traditionally had in working with vulnerable children and young people. The draft law risks creating more crime, because the new system will be stigmatising for children and young people. If the system stamps children as criminals at an early age, they identify with it, and it may be difficult to have that stamp removed once it has left traces of the children's identity. It sets foot for the effort that should help the children on the right path. Against this background, the SF cannot support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172809	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are a few brief comments, and the first is Mr. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172817	It is stigmatizing towards children and young people, I think the rapporteur had said, because one could...
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172831	We're just waiting for a little technical help. I see the speaker isn't on. Now it is!
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172835	Now it's working. Thank you for that! It is stigmatizing towards children and young people, I think the rapporteur was told, because there could be a risk of being labeled a criminal. So I would like to ask: what happens today if the police suspect you have committed something criminal? Then you come up to the county. Is it then also to stigmatize people as criminals? Is that also to give people an identity as criminals? Well, I just don't understand these big words being used against this bill. Well, one has to understand that it is one of the most dangerous things in the world and that it is quite awful that instead of being a case worker up by the municipality who decides with 98 different municipalities what to do with the child or young person, it is suddenly an independent judge, and also the municipality and the police who sit and see a case from different angles. I don't understand why this should be so bad. But I would just like to ask: are we stigmatizing today, in the current system, children and young people who are suspected of having committed something terrible?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106172941	No, I don't mean that as a starting point. In other words, the fact is that vulnerable children and young people are expressed in many different ways. For some, it is committing some very serious acts that affect others. For others it is by self-destructive acts that harm themselves. In this way the children show that they are miserable, and that is what the social studies are all about: what is the basis for the signs of dissatisfaction shown by the children? And that's why it's so incredibly important that the studies on children that are being carried out are broad studies which investigate the child's conditions, which examine the family's conditions, and where a plan of action is being drawn up on the basis of this broad study, which focuses not only on concrete actions but on the whole child's situation, that is to say that it is the basis for the action plan that is being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173038	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173040	Great! So this means that today you do not stigmatize children and young people out in the municipalities as some who have done something criminally • the 98 different municipalities with 98 different levels of service and a lot of things that may be different. You don't stigmatize there. So I would like to ask: is it being stigmatized today, with the current system, children and young people, if they are placed in a closed 24-hour institution at the age of 10? That could happen to this day. You do not have to be ten years old either, because age is not so crucial in this context. Is it so stigmatizing today? I mean, if you're suspected of committing something that's very horrible, and the municipality places you in a closed-the-clock institution, is that also stigmatizing? Or is it only in the future that it is stigmatizing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173125	Now it is the case that the children and young people who are placed in sheltered wards and who are under the age of criminals and thus do not have a conviction are, of course, placed in the light of the concern of the child's development. And that means that it is based on, broadly speaking, what is needed. There are, in fact, some who are there because they have to be observed educationally, in other words where it is not a consequence of some actions they have committed, but because they are so worried and because they actually need to protect the children, also against themselves, that they are placed there. So there are so many reasons why there are some children who, in exceptional cases, are placed in a secure ward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173206	Next to a brief remark is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173209	What the rapporteur says there, I think, is very interesting. Does this mean that the rapporteur says that a 14-year-old boy who has tried to kill someone else or committed very, very serious violence will not be placed in a youth institution? That is, of course, the consequence of what the rapporteur says; it is not being done today. So is the rapporteur saying that we are not now being placed in a closed institution as a result of our actions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173238	Yes, if it is an overall assessment that this is what is needed for the child. I would just like to attack the premise, because there is a reason why we have a criminal low age. It is because they say: Children who strike do not commit violence. Kids who take something apart don't steal. You know, you don't start putting an adult-crime theory down on what kids do. After all, there is a reason why we do not make children responsible in the way we do with adults, that we do not call them criminals, but that we see precisely the signs of very problematic behaviour that they have, as a sign of exposure and as a sign that they need massive help. Because they do. I myself have been employed as a psychologist, and I have children who have suffered massive failures and marginalisation, and they need massive help.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173333	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173336	That answer puzzles me very much. For it is perfectly clear in the draft law that it is on the basis of an overall assessment that children and young people can be placed in institutions in the future, precisely not as a punishment. So what is the difference between what we can do today and what we can do in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173356	But it is basically that you make the decision in another system and that you actually suggest that some of the broad studies that need to be carried out should be made more efficient and, what can be said, squeezed down to a very, very short course of action. What is crucial for me and for the SF is that when children do such serious acts, we must take it seriously, both for society's sake and for everyone, it had to suffer, but not least because there is no clearer indication that children are miserable than when they commit such acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173433	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments for the moment, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mr Beazley. Naser Khader for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173448	Thank you. The two proposals we are discussing together today concern the fight against juvenile delinquency. These are two proposals that stem from the government's initiative... All actions have consequences... for which the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the government have entered into a political agreement. There is therefore a broad political majority behind a reform of the fight against juvenile delinquency. Fortunately, juvenile delinquency in Denmark has fallen for a number of years. There are fewer and fewer criminals and the few who do so account for a disproportionate proportion of the total crime rate of the year. The young criminals are therefore a small but relatively hard core of young people who start a criminal career early in life. They must meet tangible and consistent efforts that show them another way. The municipality and families must have tools at their disposal that reflect the seriousness of the situation. Because we need to get these young people out of crime, and if we do not have an early effort, there is a great likelihood that the young criminals will turn into adult criminals. So the Minister of Justice has also hit his head on the nail with this proposal. Conservatives want to address the root of the problem. All actions have consequences. It's the right kind of tough laws that this reform shows. Of course, there has been a small but quite unspeakable outcry about the proposal. Some people think the government is trying to throw children in jail. It's fake news. Some believe that we want to introduce a new criminal low age by the back door. It's fake news too. And I think that in parts of today's debate, particularly from the opponents of the proposal, there has been too much focus on the rights and well-being of the criminal youth and too little focus on the victims. And that's what I'm saying from my own experience. I have a daughter who was attacked by young girls by a gang, and they were under 15 years old. There were no consequences. My daughter's still missing the mark of it. I think too much gunpowder was spent on the criminals and too little on the victim. I think there has been far too little focus on what the criminals do to the victims. What we experienced in connection with the attack was quite grotesque: there were no consequences. That is why I am very, very pleased with the proposal we are debating today. There must be consequences in the future. There is nothing in this reform to suggest that we are now throwing children into prison. It is based on existing social legislation. Kids aren't going to jail. However, there must be consistent social action against the minority of minors who commit a great deal of crime. It is only time for us to step up our efforts. The proposal contains a number of elements to which other rapporteurs have referred. However, the main element is the creation of a Youth Crime Board. It shall be chaired by a judge with police, municipal and child experts as other members. It can decide on immediate reactions to young people's crime. It can be an improvement course for 1-2 years. At the same time, a number of provisions are introduced to ensure that the decisions of the Youth Crime Board are complied with. We believe that this is a very right way to go. Children, of course, are still children and should not be thrown into prison. But when you are 15 years old and on your way into a tough criminal career, there must be a real consequence, a consequence that young people can take seriously. Otherwise, we'll leave them behind. Or we'll do them a disservice. All in all, we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173910	I do not see anyone commenting briefly on this rapporteur, so we have now reached the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106173927	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate and the speeches we have heard here today. There are strong opinions and feelings in this debate, and that is really, really, really good. As you know, the two legislative proposals we are discussing today implement a number of initiatives in the political agreement on the reform of the fight against juvenile delinquency, which the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party signed in June. It is a comprehensive reform designed to ensure a new and holistic approach to juvenile delinquency. Youth crime has been decreasing for a number of years. The number of charges and suspicions of criminal offences against children and young people aged 10-17 years has more than halved over the last 10 years. That is very positive. But there is still a hard core of a youth year, which accounts for a disproportionate and excessive proportion of total juvenile delinquency. We must put an end to this. When children and young people commit crime early in their lives, it may be the start of a criminal career that can end up with extensive and serious crime, and therefore more consistent and earlier action must be taken against juvenile delinquency. There must be a noticeable reaction so that the child or young person understands that all actions have consequences. The current municipal action against juvenile delinquency lacks a common direction and consistency. Children and young people who are on their way into a criminal career are not adequately dealt with, and therefore a new effort is needed with a clear objective: children and young people must be brought out of crime and back into the community. After all, it is no secret that the reform of the fight against juvenile delinquency has recently been the subject of a lot of debate in the media. Several organisations have, among other things: It was argued that this is really a reduction in the age of crime and that the aim of the reform is to punish children. That is simply not true. It is a fundamental misunderstanding that the age of crime is de facto reduced by the reform. The age of crime will continue to be 15 years and the reform will not impose penalties. Kids aren't going to jail. Instead, the reform must significantly strengthen social action so that children and young people are brought out of crime as early as possible and back into the community. It is also a misunderstanding that it is something new that a concrete suspicion of crime affects whether action should be taken in relation to a child or a young person. Today, the social system is already designed in such a way that the police inform the municipality when a child or a young person under the age of crime is suspected of crime. This is so that the municipality can lay down measures for the child or young person. So the social system is already dealing with cases where the child or young person is suspected of crime and where the child or young person may refuse to commit crime. With the basic misunderstandings cleared up, I will now turn to the new initiatives that the government wants to implement with the legislative proposals. A key initiative in the reform is the creation of a new Youth Crime Board. This is done with the draft law on combating juvenile delinquency. The new action against juvenile delinquency is on the shoulders of existing social legislation and no new social measures are needed. The Youth Crime Board will therefore be able to impose on children and young people practically the same measures as are currently laid down by the municipalities or the municipal children and youth committees. But as a society, we must show that we take responsibility for ourselves. We must commit the responsible authorities and we must dare to rethink our efforts so that there is both a tangible and rapid consequence for children and young people when they commit crime, while at the same time helping them to get out of a criminal path. That is why, as something new, the Youth Crime Board must oblige children and young people, their parents and municipalities to actively help ensure that the child or young person does not end up as a criminal adult. This should be done by the Youth Crime Board setting tailor-made and long-term interventions based on the individual child. The development of the child or young person must be closely monitored, and there must be a rapid response if the child or young person returns to their path. The decisions of the Youth Crime Board shall be binding on the municipalities. The Youth Crime Board will deal with cases involving children and young people aged 10-17 who are suspected or convicted of perilous crime, for example. Violence, rape or robbery. The Juvenile Crime Board shall also deal with cases where a child or a young person is suspected or convicted of other serious crimes, including burglary, gross vandalism and at the same time is at particular risk of committing further crime. The decisions of the Youth Crime Board shall be taken on two legs, an immediate reaction, which shall be of an educational and restorative nature and a long-term improvement process, a process determined in the light of the situation of the child or young person and the circumstances of the case. It brings the child or young person back on track. I would like to stress that the task of the Youth Crime Board is to determine the response that is specifically best suited to getting the child or young person out of crime and back into the community. Therefore, the mention in all cases must make a concrete and individual assessment based on the overall situation of the individual child or young person. In order to ensure that the decisions of the Youth Crime Board are followed up in reality, another key initiative in the same bill is the creation of a youth criminal justice service. The youth criminal services shall, together with the municipality of residence, ensure that the child or young person complies with the decision of the Youth Crime Board. At the same time, the youth criminal services must monitor the implementation by the municipalities of the interventions decided on in the report. If a municipality fails to comply with its obligations under the Youth Crime Board's decision, the juvenile criminal services are obliged to inform the jury. Minor offences, which will not fall within the scope of the Youth Crimes Board, can also be a slippery path to repeated or serious crime, and therefore it must be ensured that municipalities quickly and effectively engage in social action against children and young people entering a criminal path. We have a responsibility to ensure that children and young people do not end up as criminal adults, and therefore children and young people who commit minor offences must have a clear response to their criminal behaviour. At the same time, parents must be obliged to take responsibility and support the child or young person in getting out of crime. In concrete terms, the government is proposing that we strengthen the use of parental instructions and children and young people's instructions. The scope of the sanctions is proposed to be extended to all cases where a child or a young person is suspected or accused, for example. for violation of criminal law. Today, the impositions can only be imposed by criminal offences of a serious nature. We should not wait until a child's or a ung's negative behavior has intensified. We must intervene early, and where voluntary cooperation between the child and the parents does not produce results, we must instruct the child and the parents to take responsibility for the child's return to positive development. We also propose that this target group be extended so that the restrictions can be applied to children aged 10-11 who are already showing such negative behaviour at this stage that their development is at risk. We owe it to our children not to let go. We must deal early with the problems and take action with a comprehensive preventive approach which will bring the child back on course. For some children and young people, it may then be necessary to be placed outside the home to get out of a criminal career. It is often children and young people who have very complex problems and who need a daily life that is built around firm routines and rules. Here it is particularly important that the 24-hour institutions in which children and young people are placed can create a predictable and secure everyday life that best supports their return on course. We can see that today there is a significant difference in educational practice across 24-hour institutions where young people are placed. The reform therefore also focuses on standardising action against children and young people placed in a 24-hour institution. Among other things, it has to be done. • a new provision in the Social Services Act which clarifies the purpose of the efforts made in places of residence and 24-hour institutions. At the same time, there must in future be a duty to establish a house order in partially closed and secured institutions and departments. The house order must set the framework for acceptable conduct at the institution, and there must be clear and tangible consistency if the house order is not respected. This may be the reduction and withdrawal of pocket money and, if necessary, the staff must be able to use physical force to stop a violation of house order. This does not mean that the staff should ignore their social education knowledge. They are the ones who know the children and young people, and that is why, of course, they must always work from an educational approach that prevents the use of force. However, we should just bear in mind that this target group of children and young people often has some very complex problems, which is why it must be possible for staff to be able to intervene against children and young people when they step aside. An accommodation shall be provided in safe and secure conditions, and a child or young person placed in a position shall not put himself or others at risk. The staff must have a secure and secure framework so that they can work educationally with the children placed, and therefore the safety of daily life in the partially closed and secured 24-hour institutions must be strengthened. This must be done by introducing mandatory television surveillance of indoor common areas and the obligation to use door alarms for young people's rooms. The fight against the smuggling of weapons and drugs must be strengthened by the fact that, in certain cases, there must be a body search at the secured 24-hour institutions. There are young people who are suspected of serious crime and who are therefore placed in custody. Some of them are also subject to communication control. In the same institutions, there are children and young people who are not under communication control, and these children and young people can therefore be threatened by the children and young people who are under communication control and who are trying to reach a telephone. It can create distrust and insecurity. Therefore, provision is made for telephone calls to be made only in certain areas and for certain periods of time. In this way, the safety of children and young people placed in care will be enhanced, and communication control will be better enforced. As I mentioned at the outset, the aim of the reform is clear. Children and young people must be brought out of crime and back into the community. This is crucial for the individual child's and individual young people's opportunities in life, and it is also crucial for Denmark to remain a safe and secure country in the long term. With those comments, I should like to thank you for your contributions and look forward to the further consideration of the legislative proposals here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175130	Thank you, Minister. Three comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175138	The government is opening this to lock up 10-year-olds, video surveillance them and, by the way, use physical power. So how is it that the government is surprised that the Children's Council and Save the Child say it's like a prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175159	After all, everyone has now hung up on the hearings today, but I would just like to call for an interest to be taken in the commentary from the Ministry as well. It's just said as a comment. That would be really, really good. Then it is just the case that the use of force is many things, and it is of course very, very few ten-year-olds that we will see being placed in those institutions. We must remember that today too. But if a young person, a child, has decided that I will obstruct everything and that I will not go into my room, I will not do that tonight, then today a teacher can sit out in the hallway next to the young person until it suits the gentleman or the lady to go into the room. That doesn't make sense. It's fair that you can just grab the arm of the person and say that come here, buddy, now you have to come in here. So it is also the use of force, and we must not do so today. So that's common sense. That is why I am saying that there has been a scaremongering campaign of dimensions against this bill, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175257	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175258	What if this is not a scaremongering campaign and if all the children's organisations, social workers, educators and teachers have not actually misunderstood the bill, but simply say it as it is, that whatever the government calls it, elements are being introduced here which, for the children, will be experienced as a prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175322-2	I do not deposit my political right of self-determination on the basis of what organisations say in consultation responses. I read it, I relate to it, and I think I can refute a lot of it and other things we listen to. But I am a politician and I reserve the right to have opinions on how to do things. Could it be imagined that these organizations might either be stuck in positions that are not really moving, or could it be imagined that some of these organisations might also have a political attitude or an agenda? Yeah, maybe you could.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175354	The next brief remark is Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175358	Thank you. After all, I am still puzzled by the fact that there has been a power-use committee for a long time and has made recommendations to the law on adult responsibility which we adopted here just a few years ago and which has only got a year and a half to work in. They specifically recommended that the powers of force conferred upon them by this proposal should not be introduced. It still puzzles me that, as soon as an agreement has been reached, something quite fundamental will be changed in it. Now there has been for and against whether you can call it prisons or prison-like. Could the Minister say quite clearly and specifically: where are the crucial differences between the institutions which have been secured here, after the new powers of force, from prisons, and where are the similarities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175454	Where it's from the prisons? In other words, the closed institutions, as we know them today, will be so forward-looking with that supplement, and it is true that there will be video surveillance of common areas, and there may be a doorbell for the room, because then you can also hear if suddenly a door dies and there has been a conflict, that something is going on here, so that we may be able to prevent an attack on a young person. I know that the institutions disagree. I respect that. But we who made this agreement have just chosen to listen to the institutions that so kindly asked us if they could get some of these tools. And we have given them that, because we think that is the right thing to do and that is the best way to look after young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175545	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175545-2	I know there was one leader of one institution who, in the use of force, wanted it here, all the other institutions did not want it. I would like an answer to the question: where is it quite specific that the new shelters will differ significantly from prisons?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175606-2	It is, after all, a completely wild question that says in this way that the questioner believes that closed institutions and prisons are similar. Then the questioner must also think that it is today, because with the few changes we are making, it is already thought that these are prisons. I would just like to ask: should we just let the young people beat each other or commit abuse, or what should we do? Are we just gonna make sure this happens because you're afraid to use force? From an educational approach, power must be used when it is needed. Why does this have to be about prisons? This isn't about prisons. Kids aren't going to jail.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175645	The next brief remark is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175649	Thank you for your statement. Through our debate, I have committed myself to going home and listening very carefully and looking for some improvements in this proposal. So far, I have found some improvements here and here, but I would like to ask the Minister, as I have also asked earlier in the debate: is it not at least atypical that you think the hearings are correct or wrong that there is so much incongruence between the draft law that has been put forward, that is, the government's presentation, and then the opinion of the consultation parties on the matter? I am not saying that what the consultation parties say is necessarily true, but is it not atypical? Now I am new to the legal rapporteur, and for me it is at least difficult to support a proposal with such a difference between what the experts say and what the draft law says.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175732	Overall, I agree that this is atypical. But then I would just like to ask so kindly that during the committee procedure, and perhaps even until then, we go in and read the commentary on the consultation table, because it could also be that these organisations and others have had an interest in portraying it here as much worse than it is. And when I have to listen to some of the things that have been said in this debate about the de facto reduction in the age of crime and prisons and all that, I just have to say that this is not what makes you take something like this more seriously. But you can also disagree, that is fair. It is fair when organisations have a different political approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175813	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175816	Perhaps that is where I think it might become a little dubious, because if the organisations have a different political approach, it is one thing, but what I lean on is if they have a different professional assessment. I think that the political approach they must then confess somewhere else, but it may well be, because some of the organisations or institutions are actually under pressure on the economy and resources, and so they say: okay, if we can't get anything else, then we have to do this. And it may then end in something similar to a political approach. Perhaps that was mostly a comment. I will look at it in the seams, and then I can say that I have of course also read the commentary on the hearing replies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175851-2	I heard it more as a comment, and there will be an opportunity in committee to go deeper into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175904	Then I give the floor to the next one for a brief comment. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175905	Thank you. I can then start by reassuring our minister with the fact that I have read the commentary. I should just like to ask the Minister what the position of the Minister is that five out of seven institutions actually disagree directly with the Minister's proposals, so they do not demand these things and do not directly disagree, do not actually need these legislative proposals, but perhaps need some other things. After all, this is not one of the issues on which the Minister of Justice has a disagreement with the organisations. But in concrete terms, five out of seven institutions say no to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106175947	The very simple answer to that is that here we are a circle of parties that disagree. This is a political disagreement. Well, I am not saying that the five institutions are political, because they then have some views on how they want to feel. I think and have listened to those who say that it would be good to have that alarm on the door, for example, so you know when they go out and in and so there should not be an adult standing outside each door.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180015	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180016	However, the consequence of this has been that a great many things are now being put down on all the institutions, even though they are saying in the institutions: here we actually have another social-professional approach; we have another social-educational approach to the young people and children that we are dealing with here at our institution. And I think that is very disrespectful of the professionalism represented in our institutions. I think it should then be possible to have a different approach to the various institutions and that social education and training should, as it were, be given priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180055	You might think so. I call it democracy and the rule of the people that we in the Danish Parliament make some political decisions that sometimes disagree with. Because I am very puzzled by the educational approach that people in those places really think it is quite awful, and that if there is surveillance or anything else, it can destroy all educational work and I don't know what. This is the kind of thing I'm actually getting a little spooked about, because that's not what we want with this proposal. What we want with this proposal is to secure young people and we want to ensure more uniformity if they are placed. I acknowledge that you can then have different views on this, but I think it is legitimate to have different opinions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180130	I would just like to say that there are still three brief points to be made. The next is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180138	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. I would like to continue a little along the same lines, because if I am to be quite honest, I think it sounds a little like the Minister is now saying that because there is democracy and popular rule and it is the Folketing that passes the laws, then you do not have to explain why you are doing what you are doing. And the Minister doesn't. I would ask the Minister to try to deal with the substance of the criticism. I do not call any institutions prisons, and I do not say anything about the criminal low age being put down or any of those polemics, so I would ask the Minister not to interpret it into what I am saying. I would like to ask the Minister to deal with the substance of the criticism. As Mrs Lund says, five out of seven secured institutions have decidedly rejected the tools contained in this bill. In fact, the last two have also said that they do not need all the tools that are being put in place here, but that they are being forced on them. For example: And why don't they want that video surveillance? They say it is because the Minister should deal with them, and that is what they are going to have worse conditions for their social pedagogy work; it creates counter-reactions, it creates a culture of distrust among employees and young people. They can simply do their job worse when the minister forces that camera into the common space. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180312	The Minister says to that: then I am quite concerned about where this is going and how we will ever improve the existing system if, for example, we do so. to have video material as evidence, if something happens, and that can be done, is contrary to the fact that one can do educational work. You may say so, but what is the reason for this? Well, how can that cause mistrust? We have to remember that it is not very clear from the debate what kind of young people in this system are being placed there. It may be some who have committed very serious personal crimes. Well, it's not necessarily Mr. Knox. and the children of Denmark on the villa roads, it is a small, small group of young people, and that is why we are going to do this safeguarding of the institutions. We have then reached a political agreement on this, where we have not subsequently listened to all those who thought that we should have done something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180420	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180423	Now we are getting closer, because now we are talking about the substance. And the Minister is not in a position to answer why the Minister is imposing a proposal which no institution wants and which the institutions say gives them worse conditions for doing social pedagogy work. The minister is asking: How can that be? What is the reason for this? Yes, I wish the Minister would have sat down before the bill was on the table and had been enforced. But I will try to tell the Minister in the few seconds I have. It is because by setting up a monitoring regime, young people are told that they do not believe in them; then they tell the young person: Now you have come into another place in your very young life, where the adults do not listen to you, where the adults do not believe in you, and where the adults control you instead of helping you. That is why the social educators say that the little camera is ruining their work, but the minister is forcing that regime of power through. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180525	We do this because it is the system we want, in other words, where we can document if there is abuse of staff or young people between them and use it as evidence. We want it on these institutions, because it's all about looking after and protecting some of these young people; because we want some institutions where, if they're put there, we're sure which regime they're in, who's looking after them and how they look after them. That's why we've chosen this too for the preventive reason. When you know that some people see what you're doing around here, it might have a bearing on whether you're doing crime or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180607	The next brief remark is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180611	Thank you. The Minister did not answer my colleague Trine Torp's question. Compared to the secured institutions, with the changes that have been put in place, as we have heard, there is a 24-hour surveillance of common areas, door alarms for all rooms, more opportunities for close-up body searching, perhaps even for children who have been subjected to abuse, increased access to physical force and many other things. The minister was obviously very upset that my colleague asked how this differs from a prison. But then it should also be easy for the Minister to give just a few examples of where these proposals for a change of the secured institutions are quite different. And that is just what we would like an answer from the Minister today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180715	In a closed prison, you're sort of locked up for most of the day, for example. But I just think it is a bit of a slippery slope that we are starting to talk about this in relation to prisons, because then it is at least a disgusting criticism of the system we have today, where you can be placed down to the age of 10 or younger in a closed institution. I would have liked Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen to have been with Mrs Pernille Skipper and me when, in connection with recordings to Far from Castle, we visited the Koglen. There we saw several boxes of more boxes of different fabricated weapons, or what can be used as weapons that were found on these young people. And then you find it incredibly intrusive that you should be allowed to search the young in a good way. Should we not? Should we say it's just too bad if they come in with something that can be used as a plugging weapon or something? Well, what's the alternative? I could ask. Why don't we take care of these young people? Are we just gonna let it go?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180814	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180816	Judging by the look on Mrs Pernille Skipper's face, she and the Minister do not see the same on that experience, I think one can safely say. But the Minister did not answer my question or our question. You are locked in, yes, but here we are also talking about secured institutions, and the Minister says this is a criticism of the way this is going on today. It's not. It is a criticism of the changes in the law in relation to what it will be if the minister gets his way. So I would like to hear the Minister's comment that these are also children locked up, these are 24 hours of video surveillance, they are body search, they are door alarms.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106180908	Firstly, I would hope that Denmark's Radio will release the tape material they have from when they made the recordings, if you doubt the correctness of what I said just now, that the leader stood and found the boxes with the weapons they had found or what could be used as weapons. I'm always on target for that clip if it's shown. In fact, I hope that you will find that at the Danish Radio. Secondly, as regards today, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen knows the regime today in the closed institutions. So what are we changing? Yes, it's video surveillance, it's door alarms, and it's searching for the safety of children and young people. Does that make it all of a sudden to Vestre Prison and the closed regime that is there? There's a huge difference between that. But it is clear that it is
ParlaMint-DK_20181106181002	The last one to make a brief comment right now is Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106181007	Thank you. I have a proposal for the Minister and it is as soon as possible to arrange a trip where we can look at prisons and closed institutions, because apparently the trips we have been going on have not been enough. I mean, if the man with what the government has put forward here can confuse a closed prison with one of these institutions we're talking about, then either you don't know what a closed prison looks like or what one of these institutions looks like. So there must be a basis for the Folketing to go on a trip again. That's one thing. The other thing is, I'm just gonna back the minister up with the plugging guns. Well, I have those pictures, so if some of the rapporteurs are in doubt about what they have found in these places, then you can come down to see them in my office. There are so many that you could wallpaper a wall with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106181049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106181050	Thank you for that, I just want to say. In any case, we should be happy to contribute to getting around and seeing both prisons and closed institutions. I have visited a great many prisons and also closed institutions, and I think they are two very different things. But, you know, if members of the Folketing want to see these different things around, we're happy to arrange trips. I've seen a lot of them, so I don't think that's where I'm gonna spend my time, but we're gonna have to arrange something.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106181119	Thank you, Minister. Before I go any further, I'm gonna need a bearing on whether or not somebody would like another round... that's what I've been feeling. I need to know if that feeling is right yet. I see that you are shaking your head, including the honourable Member, who might have suggested that a second round was needed. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I will make a service announcement before we start the next item on the agenda, and that is that we have, of course, adopted a new experimental system in questioning debates, in which we are trying to bring together the rapporteurs in the first place in the Chamber. We just need time for everyone to find their new seats and for the technology to be in order as well. I can also remind you that the question debate is the first since the amendment of the Rules of Procedure in June. Here it was decided to give the rapporteurs access to a brief comment of up to one minute's duration already for the Minister's reply. So there's something new in it too. So both your location, the technique and the fact that you have the opportunity to say something to the Minister before we start the rapporteur's own line are new. There should be some small labels at the seats where you should sit. Have they disappeared? I know they are put on discreetly, but it should not be so discreet that the rapporteurs cannot see it. Laughter At least we're a little challenged on it. But we have enough time to wait for everyone to be well in place. You have to remember to shut down your own desk and press the new desk, so we're gonna check that out. I sense that it looks okay. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20181106181553	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 8 November 2018. I give the floor to the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the question, Mr Seligman. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106181602	The political agreement behind the recent revision of the Public Procurement Act initially contains the intention to increase openness and democratic control over public administration. It is stressed that it is essential that as far as possible provision is made for monitoring how public administration is carried out. Already then, criticism was made of the new derogations on ministerial service and the so-called parliamentary rule and, for the same reason, agreement was reached to evaluate those provisions in particular already 2017. The current government, at its accession, signalled that when the Public Service Act is to be evaluated in 2017, the government will ease the protection of the internal and political decision-making process in relation to the current rules. In addition, the Ombudsman has investigated the case on his own initiative and concluded, and I quote again, that in practice, the ministerial service rule leads to substantial restrictions on the right of access to documents. But the same statement also shows that it is not practice that does not comply with the law, it is the law that has created the consequences. The evaluation has also been completed. It has shown great variation in the application of the rules by ministers, although the law's preparatory work predates a restrictive application. It is against this background that the Radical Left, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF have called for this inquiry debate, so that here, where the parliamentary term ends at the end, we can take stock of the work on the Public Service Act in respect of the fundamental role it plays in a democratic society governed by the rule of law. We look forward to the Justice Minister's reply and the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106181744	Thank you for your explanatory statement, and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. The Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106181756	It says in the government's constitution that the government will ease the rules of the Public Service Act on the protection of internal political decision-making, and the government has therefore worked to reach a compromise where possible. We have had lengthy discussions with the conciliation parties, we have responded to numerous questions, and we have had other countries' rules described. That is why, of course, I am surprised that, as a conciliation party, we are helping to promote this question. I very often hear from the Radical Left when we discuss legal policy that this government, with the Minister of Justice at the head of this area, is populists and is conducting symbolic policy, and what do I know? I would also like to say that, when you have sat as part of a conciliation group and negotiated and then call for a debate on questions, I know that, and Mr. Morten Østergaard as well as I do that it is very popular among journalists. Then, of course, you can get some really good attention there. We believe, as do many others, that there is a need for more openness in the public law and that openness is an important principle in a democratic society. The question then is how to strike a balance between the public interest on the one hand and the need to give a government the opportunity to make its own internal political reflections without the press sitting at the table. And here I think that the draft, among other things. a relaxation of the ministerial service rule, which the government presented to the conciliation parties in autumn 2017, was a very good compromise. In politics, you have to compromise on something. Every party can't get everything they want. Some may go further, others shorter. It was my wish that we should reach agreement on a change to the public law, and whether it would be possible to do so depended on all those involved in the conciliation circle and their willingness to negotiate. Unfortunately, the negotiating situation has been difficult, and it has certainly not been easy to get the ends to meet. I recently learned that the negotiations had seriously broken down when the Radicals announced publicly that the party withdrew from the settlement. It's too bad it had to end like this. I had hoped that we could relax the rule with a broad consensus in our backs. We couldn't. Unfortunately, we must now be true that it has not been possible to do so, and that is what I can tell you on behalf of the government about the status of the new public law and the consideration of amending it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182031	That was the Minister's speech, and so it is now possible for that one minute's reply or comment to be made. I have one signed in for the time being, sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. And here comes number two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182043	I do not know whether it was primarily an account of the radical Left's doing and the barn as a conciliation party or a status of the public law. Because this has been happening since the Conservative People's Party entered the government. We agreed otherwise that something serious should happen to have the blackout curtains rolled up where the changes we had contributed to had created more darkness. That is why the expectations were great, but I just want to hear today what the government's plans are. We have not heard anyone else do it either, but they themselves have to explain that they prevented the government from making a single bill that could live up to the government basis. What we have said is that the draft law to which the Minister of Justice refers is not enough for us to be vigilant about conciliation in the future. But if the government wants, as the Minister of Justice says, to put forward the bill, it must finally do so. There is plenty of time to run, so I just want to hear: does the government intend to put forward the bill that the Minister of Justice mentioned in his statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182155	The term was used plenty of time. This new model is 1 minute each to ask some questions or make some comments and 1 minute to the minister for one answer each. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182207	No, the government does not intend to, because the prerequisite for all of this was to find a new agreement and then the conciliation circle was united on that agreement, and I have just learned that it is too little. I have full respect for the fact that you think it is too little and that there will be no legislative proposal. And I assume that I understand what was said in such a way that, after an election, the conciliation has been terminated, and then you have to see whether a new agreement should be made and how it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182236	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, to make a comment in one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182241	Thank you. I think I heard the Minister almost blaming the Radical Left for the fact that now it was all sort of collapsed. But is it not true that we had agreed that there should be something that had fallen into place, by the latest constitutional day of 2017? So we've been trying for a really, really long time. In fact, we have been negotiating since autumn 2015, or at least we have had these discussions with the Minister's predecessor. I have another question. The Minister says that he really has enough respect for if you think that what was on the table was too little. Does the Minister not think that this is correct, even in relation to what the Minister has said in the past as party leader, namely that it was cosmetic changes? One had a small pool of things where it was said that they should no longer be covered by the ministerial service rule, i.e. a very, very small pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182340	Perhaps Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen would like me to have included SF in the introductory part too. No, it is more because it just surprises me that when you have been sitting in a negotiating room in a conciliation circle, you are going to have a question debate, even though you know that I cannot move on. I can't force anyone to agree. We have a settlement circle. You can't find each other in the conciliation circle. Then there are some who, for that reason, terminate the settlement, and then it is terminated. That's just what I'm quietly saying. When I am a minister, I speak on behalf of the government, and then I do not have private views, that is, what I had to say as a Conservative President and everything else. The questioner knows that this is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182426	The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182430	Thank you and thank the Minister for the introduction. The Enhedslisten is one of the few parties that has never been part of the settlement. There's been a lot of change in this debate and it's been going on for a long time. So, as an outsider, as far as the conciliation circle is concerned, perhaps I would ask questions on behalf of the many people who are watching and thinking that this public law is a bad idea because it has shut down the openness and it has made it more difficult to control the rulers of this country. There may be scandals that have not been revealed because we have not had the same openness. Something suggests that there is a majority of the parties in the Folketing who would actually like to do this again. So, as I can count, it is only the Left and the Socialists who are now in favour of the Public Act as we know it. That should not be a majority. So my question is, what will the government do now? Two out of three of the government's parties would like to change the public law. What is the government going to do, no matter what the SF and Radicals have done, let's forget them for a moment • What will the government do?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182539	I hope that we agree that we have a conciliation practice here in the Folketing, namely that once a settlement has been reached, it will remain in place until it is terminated. And if you quit, you're free to choose. That is why I think it is fully in line with the practice we have here in the House. It is now the case that the conciliation circle has not been able to agree, and then it also means that there will be no legislative proposal. Someday there will be a parliamentary election, none of us will know when, and when that parliamentary election is over, there may be parties that then want to say that it is time to discuss this again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182620	There is one more for a brief remark. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182625	This is a little in line with what Mrs Pernille Skipper said, and it is really just to get a very spontaneous and immediate comment from the Minister. We are in a situation where there is actually a political majority who would like to amend this law, but because Conservatives have now entered the government and become government partners, it is some other rules that apply. After an election we may find ourselves in a situation where the Danish People's Party is in government, and then you change your attitude again. Well, we actually have a majority that strongly disagrees with this law, but because of who is in government and who is not in government, nothing happens. I think that is just paradoxical and I just want to hear what the Minister thinks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182711	It does not necessarily have anything to do with whether or not you go to government. As far as I was concerned, this was an agreement reached by the Social Democrats, the Left, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party at some point in the previous period. Now I don't even remember the year. Then a settlement has been reached, and at least there have been three of the parties I have heard saying: we shall have looked at that. But I suppose it is the case that, regardless of the fact that we begin to move and want something different, we still respect away that we have reached a settlement? And I'm thinking that if you don't cancel a settlement, I guess it's up to you. Now the government considers this settlement to be terminated with what the Radical Left has been out to say. The settlement has been terminated, and that means that until the next parliamentary elections, things are as they are, and then you have to see what happens after a parliamentary election. I'm not trying to be one thing or the other. In fact, I think that this is an expression of respect for the way in which we otherwise have conciliation practices, and that is just what I am saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182817	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182822	Thank you. It is quite strange and new to me to say that I am a little on the other side of it, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk has said, would like to ask what needs to be done in the future. For the Danish People's Party and I have had very great respect for it, for example. Conservatives have said. In other words, one had the courage to turn the Public Service Act into a theme of a Conservative National Council, where Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, President of the Party, gave an excellent speech on this issue. I'm kind of just looking for a response to what happens when we get on the other side of a choice. Compared to those things, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen said as party chairman before Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen became Minister of Justice, is that the Conservative People's Party we will see again when it comes to the Public Act? Because there is such a certain distinction between whether it is the government or whether it is the Conservatives we are talking about, and I would really like the Minister to put some words on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182920	So, the Conservative view in this debate stands for the Conservative rapporteur. It's nothing new. It is the Conservative rapporteur who speaks on Conservative policy. A minister speaks on behalf of the government. That must be the case, but everyone here knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182938	Thank you to the Minister for this round. Then we begin the negotiations, and the first rapporteur in the negotiating part is rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106182952	Today, then, we are opening a new chapter in the history of the necessary modernisation of the Public Service Act, which resulted in the much debated revision of the 2013 Act, which, with the words of the Ombudsman in his statement on the Ministerial Service Rule, has in practice led to substantial restrictions on the right of access to documents. Quote out. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for the brief statement, which then provided an appropriate introduction to this new chapter, but the interesting thing today, with all due respect, will be the debate that we are now embarking on. Here too, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that, with his statements to the press earlier this day, he has stated that the party of which the Minister is President is today standing where they were also standing earlier. Behind this statement lies the paradox that today in the Folketing, when you see that party by party, there is a large majority in favour of changing the public law. What brings together widely is the desire to remove the new exceptions for ministerial service and the so-called parliamentary rule, but when the majority does not put its will through, it is, of course, due to the fact that there is a conciliation on the public law. The negotiations have been conducted, but there has been no result, and that is why we have terminated the conciliation. Of course, this applies only from the next elections, but it does not prevent the government from seeking to gather the Folketing widely to roll up the blackout curtains so that there can be light where we agree that the law change created darkness. That is also why we are today a broad circle of parties who have jointly wanted to express our common intentions. I shall come back to that. But first of all, on behalf of the Radical Left, and not least myself, as a minister in the government which carried out the most recent revision of the law, I would like to say that no one is in any doubt: the critics were right, we were wrong. In our view, the change in the Public Service Act has weakened public insight into public administration and weakened the confidence that the public can have that those in power can be looked at in the maps. The good thing about laws is that they can be changed if you're unhappy with them. It was we who failed at that time that have the opportunity to rectify, and that is why and in that light that I am standing here today. Then what's gone wrong? Yes, I have already mentioned a few times that the ministerial service rule has reduced public insight into what the ministers are doing. The rule of parliamentary politics appears mostly unnecessary. I have asked colleagues who, like me, have been sitting in the Folketing both before and after the change, whether we have actually felt any change in practice. We haven't, nor is it used very much, so it really stands mostly as an example of creating some darkness where there was no need for it. The trial period is also under fire today. The Ombudsman criticises the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration for not being near the deadlines set. I also think it is fair to say that, in a number of areas, with the review, steps were taken which have also led to increased openness and increased public access. This applies to KL and Danske Regions, and this applies to state companies. However, in this area too, it has become apparent in practice that the intention has been passed around, but a number of state enterprises have been excluded, even though the idea was that the rule of access to documents should also apply to them. That is why it is also on this point that we think it is inadequate, and that is why our position today is fundamental, that we do not want, in principle, to set up the Public Service Act forward-looking in such a way that there is information that could be gained from the old law, which is excluded from the future. We would like to acknowledge the need for modernisation, which led to the establishment of the Publicity Commission, and that is why we are trying today to commit ourselves in the context of the work of a joint proposal for adoption by a broad circle of parties. I believe that the debate will show that there is broad support for the removal of the ministerial service rule and the rule of parliamentary politics, I believe there is broad support for the transparency of the procedure, also in practice, and I believe that there will be support for also ensuring that the intentions of increased openness are put into practice, not least when it comes to state companies. That is why I think the right thing is that we are now trying to gather widely in the Folketing, perhaps even with all parties for the first time, and to create a common understanding of what these fundamental rules of the game for our democracy and our people's rule and our administration, if you sit in government, should be. Let us gather together to open where we were shut down; power does not weaken by being controlled. Therefore, on behalf of the Radical Left, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, I have to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Ombudsman's inquiry shows that the introduction of the so-called ministerial service rule into the Public Service Act has in practice led to substantial restrictions on the right of access to documents and that the settlement behind the recent revision of the Public Service Act has been terminated on that basis. Parliament therefore calls on the government to call for wide-ranging negotiations on a new revision of the Public Procurement Act. A new revision of the Public Procurement Act must ensure, as a minimum, that V.3
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183558	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance, has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183612	Thank you for your speech and thank you for raising the debate at all. And especially thank you for a liberating honest realization that you were wrong in the Radical Left back in 2013, when you agreed to allow the then Minister of Justice Morten Bødskov to roll down these well-known dark curtains around Slotsholmen. Now the rapporteur says that the good thing about laws is that you can change them and you can say that the good thing about mistakes is that you can learn from them and change things. That is why my question is: what does the Radical Left think, if things are going so well, from the point of view of the Radical Left, that, after a parliamentary election, it is sitting with the Social Democratic Party and having to negotiate again, what is a future possible SR government actually going to work for? How hard will the Radical Left stand on the fact that the intentions which the rapporteur has just read will also become the policy of a possible SR government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183713	The strength of a people's government should be that when there is a broad majority like what we are seeing here today, that is what is becoming reality. And that is why the intention of today's debate and the proposal for adoption that we have just brought into the debate is that this is what we are committed to, even in the situation we naturally hope to see here, namely that we are the ones who are in a position to influence the work of a future government. Then it will be with this adoption in hand and with the ambition to make it the policy of the next government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183745	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183747	Does that mean that this is how I hear it? That you will actually twist your arm on the back of Mette Frederiksen until she says yes to what is in this text can also become a future government policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183800	Just remember, sir. and Mrs when you talk about Members. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183804	The intention to terminate the conciliation first and then, together with a group of parties, to call the debate here is, in fact, that the majority can express its will. It is not certain that it will be with the adoption of the text I just read on this occasion, but for us it is a question of how we believe that the writing on the wall is clear that no matter who is going to sit in government after the next elections, it will be based on what we have formulated today, because the debate will hopefully show that you take the parties one by one, there is a very broad coverage of it. That is why our ambition is to bind us to it, commit us to it, and that is why we have the debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183843	Then I give the floor to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183848	Thank you. In other words, I am not immediately impressed by the proposal for adoption which the parties have worked together. However, I should like to ask: if we now propose the rule of ministerial service and the rule of parliamentary politics to be abolished altogether, should nothing else be replaced, for example what was in the old public law, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183913	As I said in my speech, what is our guiding principle is that the information provided under the old law should also be able to gain insight again. In addition, there is a number of places where the new Public Procurement Act has actually gained more insight, among other things. in state companies, which is also part of our adoption. But it is also the case, under the current public law, that there are a large number of other exceptions, including for legislative work, i.e. preparatory work, just to mention the central one.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183946	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106183948	I also think that there is such a glimpse of the saints of the last few days over the Radical Left and all. This law was negotiated at the time, but it seems as if it had not been read. How can anyone be surprised that, in the past, when one had no exception to access to documents between, for example, a ministry and a board and introduces it, there are some documents that can no longer be accessed? This was, of course, what was involved in the modernisation of the Public Service Act, i.e. that there was a change of form of work, so that the governing bodies were more involved in the legislative preparatory work. Was it really a surprise to the Radical Left that the law would lead to less access to documents in some areas and more access to documents in other areas? Because that was, in fact, part of the whole debate. So I'm a little puzzled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184044	I've been a little down looking at what we actually wrote in the deal back then. And precisely about the ministerial service rule, we wrote quite specifically: it must be interpreted and applied restrictively. I do not think that, after any reasonable consideration, it can be said that it has been, and that is also why we are repeatedly referring to the Ombudsman's own operational inquiry into it. In addition, I think that the very varied practice of the ministries, how often they apply the rule, expresses in itself that there is too much room for manoeuvre in relation to the rules that must be in place. It should be the case that it does not depend on which ministry you are addressing, in relation to what you can gain insight into.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184126	Then there was one more brief comment. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184129	The rapporteur says that one is very surprised when it said that the law should be interpreted and applied restrictively, that it has not been. Couldn't it be an idea to look at that part instead of canceling a settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184146	Well, the problem was, of course, that we thought we were on our way with the broad majority in favour of putting pressure on the conciliation circle. And even more optimistic, after all, when you read the government base and could see that it was intended that the ministerial service rule should be significantly changed. But what we have seen in the negotiations that have taken place is that this has not been the case. In other words, the draft law to which the Minister of Justice referred is a great deal of discussion among the learned and whether it is a relaxation at all. What we've been met with is that it was take it or leave it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184225	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184225-2	Sir. Morten Østergaard says: Morten Østergaard himself was a minister of the then government, who decided that what has come to the fore on the Radical Left is the interpretation and application of the law. Then it would be optimal if you could look at that part rather than start proposing legislative changes. Is Mr. Morten Østergaard didn't agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184253	No, and that is also why I referred to the Ombudsman's statement. For the Ombudsman clearly says that although differences can be seen in how often the ministerial service rule is applied across ministries, it is nevertheless true that there is no basis for saying that the law is not respected. In other words, it is the law that is wrong; it is not compliance with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments for the moment. So we continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184333	Thank you. The conciliation partners behind the October 2012 political agreement on a new Public Procurement Act decided that the new Public Procurement Act should be evaluated 3 years after its entry into force. Here we should look at whether there was a need for change. In this context, the Ministry of Justice prepared a statement published in June 2017 and as a follow-up to that evaluation, we had discussions in the conciliation circle and subsequently wanted to make some changes. The SF and the Radical Left, as conciliation parties, did not want to be involved in adopting the amendments that the evaluation very clearly indicated. As you know, the Public Service Act is an important tool for ensuring an open and transparent public administration. This is the clear starting point, but at the same time there is also a need for ministers to have a confidential working space. That is the attitude of the Social Democrats, and it is also the view that it is very important to ensure that balance. This is also the reason why we were so much in favour of changes, since with the evaluation in hand we could see that the law was not applied as intended in a number of areas. That is why I am also extremely sorry that the SF and the Radicals do not want to take part in the changes to the Public Service Act, so that we could have a change to it here and now, because we fully agree that it is not applied to all stretches as intended. In these words, I shall read out the following proposals for the adoption of the Social Democracy, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives: Proposals for adoption The Parliament notes that the conciliation circle has, as agreed, carried out an evaluation of the Public Act. The Danish Parliament also notes that there have been political discussions in the conciliation circle with a view to relaxing the rule of ministerial service. The Minister of Justice has informed the Danish Parliament that it has not been possible to reach an agreement in the conciliation circle to amend the Public Procurement Act. Finally, the Folketing notes that the political agreement states that an amendment to the Public Procurement Act can only take place if agreement is reached between the parties to the agreement. • V (4). • V (4). •
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184541	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the proposal for adoption, which is part of the further negotiations. I have four comments to make in short. The first is sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184555	Following on from the discussion we had a moment ago, when the roles were opposed and I stood where the rapporteur is now standing, I would say that I think it is in many ways a relief that it is the law that is being applied in practice; that the substantial restriction of access to documents results from the law and therefore not from how to use it. That is what the Ombudsman's inquiry shows. That is why I would just like to ask at the outset: is it the view of the Social Democratic Party that the proposal put forward by the government, to which the Minister for Justice referred today, would solve the problems posed by the Public Service Act? In other words, if you just implemented it, would the Social Democrats be satisfied?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184640	May I not say first of all that there was a reason why it was written in due course that there should be an evaluation with a view to possible adjustment of the Public Service Act. After all, it was from the desire to become wiser as to whether it worked in practice. It is only in the light of the very extensive evaluation work that has been carried out that it has clearly pointed out that the Public Service Act has not worked as intended. It has been interpreted considerably harder in some places than what was the political desire. This has to be changed, and that is why there has been a desire both to look at the legislation, so you sent the very clear signal, but also to look at the instructions to the ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184726	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184728	I am not sure that I fully caught what the answer was, i.e. whether the Social Democrats would be satisfied with the proposal referred to by the Minister for Justice in his statement, so that it would be sufficient changes in the public law to satisfy the Social Democracy, in other words, on the basis of the evaluation. I hope that the answer is no, and my appeal will be to take seriously what the situation is, where confidence in us as politicians and the way politics is conducted is weakened when you see that power closes itself and when there are significant limitations in the ability to keep up with how power is exercised. I hope there will be a new majority after the next elections and a new government, but I also hope it is a government that will work to ensure that the public understands the work better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184819	I really think I made this very clear in my speech. We want there to be publicity about the administrative work, but on the other hand we also want there to be a space for ministers to work in where ministers can gain knowledge and where ministers can exchange knowledge. What we are concerned about is that, as I understand it, the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Morten Østergaard read out that the ministerial service rule will be abolished altogether; that is what the proposal for adoption says. Yes, then you no longer have this room that has been written, and the fact that it has not been written can at worst mean that important information is not passed on to a minister, that is to say that the administration is afraid to tell the truth to a minister, and that would certainly not be preferable. But we want a change. We have been saying this all along, and we have been calling for it all along, because otherwise we would not have done such an extensive evaluation work when we concluded the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184913	The next brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106184915	Thank you. After all, many of our discussions have just been about what the rapporteur has also said, namely how to secure a confidential space, which must be provided if fundamental changes are made to the public law. But with the way in which the Public Service Act has been put together today, there is, of course, even if you remove the ministerial service rule completely and do not put anything in place, because it is also a discussion that we often end up in, namely what should be instead of still away internal documents that are covered. The preparation of legislative initiatives, which are fenced in Article 20, has still been removed. The broad exemption provision has still been removed from this general clause, §33. No. 1 5. That is why there are actually many different parts of the Public Service Act which will exempt precisely what I think we all agree on: that there should be a confidential space, that there should be confidentiality, that there should be legislative proposals in the Chamber, etc. That is why it is not necessary to maintain precisely the ministerial service rule when we have the other parts of the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185033	Frankly, I believe that the very easy view to take in this debate is that you simply want to abolish the ministerial service rule and that you want to replace something else. But I know no one has pointed out what this other thing is going to be, and that's where it's going to be difficult. The hard part is when we find this balance, which is so incredibly important for ministers to be able to navigate, but at the same time we have openness. Well, I have only seen a proposal from the Minister, and it looked positive. This gave significantly more openness, for example in the case of child bride, on which we were at least very close in the opposition parties to want information and information. There were plenty of documents we would have liked to have looked at in the seams. In fact, with the proposal put on the table by the Minister, we had access to it. So I do not quite buy that the proposal that has been put forward has not been an attempt to find this better balance than we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185133	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185134	I do not think I put my question clearly enough, because Mrs Trine Bramsen says that it is easy to say that you want something to go away if nothing is to be done instead. But my whole point was that there doesn't have to be anything instead. In other words, when it comes to internal documents, legislative initiatives that are on their way in the Chamber, it is § 20 and the general clause, § 33, my question to the rapporteur was really whether those parts cannot be covered. Because what we are interested in is that a minister can have some confidentiality until a legislative proposal is in the Chamber or that there are internal documents that are excluded. So that was really my point, namely that we do not need anything else instead of the ministerial service rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185224	We have had a very precise expert review of this part in the conciliation circle, and a number of areas have been identified which would limit the Minister's room for manoeuvre in exchanging documents with agencies. And in the worst case scenario, you'd have a system where you don't write the knowledge you get from your system. So it is not quite true that it will have absolutely no significance at all to remove the rule of ministerial service from the fact that things will be excluded from the important documents to which the Minister must have access in order to be able to be served.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185304	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185306	I think we are perhaps beginning to realise why we have been talking past each other for the last five years in this debate, because we are supposed to restrict the Minister's room to exchanging documents confidentially. We need openness. So that is what is meant by removing the rule of ministerial service, namely to remove a secrecy. And then there must be openness instead. That is why we do not need a paragraph that is just formulated differently. We need openness when the Minister exchanges documents with agencies. That's the whole point. I have to ask a question which I have asked so many times that I do not have any figures on it since 2013: if there is a need for this free space, which there was not until we amended the law in 2013, then there must have been some times before the amendment of the law, when the minister did not have sufficient clearance. So I just want to hear what it was that came out before the new public law, which is not supposed to come forward, even in the future. There must be an example of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185416-2	Now, I was not in the negotiations at the time, and as I understand it, it was a long-standing work that led to the amendment of the Public Service Act. I think it almost started when I was born, so it is a long process that has been the approach to changing the public law at the time. But what I just think it is important to realise is that a minister needs to coordinate, and the more ministries we have, and the more agencies we have under a ministry, the greater the need for a very clear framework for cooperation. What could happen in the worst case scenario, if we simply chose to say that we now have no rule of ministerial service, is that we change the institutions so that we simply put them together instead, so that we really do not have the organisation that is the best, but that we have the organisation where the law is most easily circumvented in relation to serving the minister. And that is certainly not to be preferred.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185517	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185519	So I have to understand that the Social Democratic Party actually changed the Public Service Act because it had happened that the organisation of the governing bodies had become wrong. So it was a few years ago that we had a situation where we did not have a rule of ministerial service and where there was openness when a minister sent a document to a board or vice versa. And that is all I am asking, since Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party, still believes that it is not possible for a minister to send a letter or an e-mail to a board or vice versa because it has to be a greater freedom. Then there must be something that came out before 2013 that shouldn't have come forward. There must have been some information that the public was given access to and that the public should not have had access to. Has Mrs Trine Bramsen found an example of this over the last five years when we have been asking about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185614	Now I also think that Mrs Pernille Skipper is mixing up the things I am saying. What may be the risk of us choosing to remove a ministerial service rule is, at worst, that we start to change the organisation of our public sector in order to circumvent the rules. What has, after all, been part of the approach to the amendment of the Public Service Act has, among other things, been. our public sector has become significantly larger. We have significantly more ministries, and there are significantly more agencies under a minister, and therefore the need to inform a minister, spar with a minister and comment on political statements has increased. This has required a new set of rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185648	The next brief remark is Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185651	I note that the rapporteur said that the rapporteur's party was also critical of the way in which the law was administered. Everyone remembers back to how intense the debate was in 2013 and that there were a large number of experts out there who said that there are those and the weaknesses of the law. Then we implemented the law, and now those criticisms have proved to be far and away correct. I am just genuinely curious to hear: what does Social Democracy think? So, what have been the weaknesses of the law we have today, and what would the Social Democrats want to see changed if we had to change the law as we know it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185737	The major problem with the law is that it has become very clear in the evaluation process that it has not lived up to the political intention that was there. It has been interpreted more restrictively than was actually wanted. And then you have to create a new framework for how to use this legislation, which is both in terms of legislation and in terms of guidance. What may surprise me is that there are no more ministers and now I have not myself been Minister ^ who can see it as a competitive parameter to have openness about its administration. Because it is a minister who is always setting out the guidelines for how one's ministry is to be run, and there could be a parameter that one chose to say: I would like us to give more publicity in all the inquiries that are coming. After all, a minister has every possibility of doing so, and I am surprised that it has not been used to any greater extent today, and also that we have former ministers now, who are standing and criticising the Public Service Act, but who did not choose to use the possibility of more publicity when the chance was there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185838	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185839	Just as when I asked the Minister for Justice before, I think it is paradoxical that it seems at least as if there is a political majority wishing to amend a law that does not work as intended, and I also hear that the rapporteur says that the law does not work as intended. So if it matters to the Social Democrats, what are the points where they say: we simply have to change this because it does not work as intended? I believe that there are a large number of people, not least the Ombudsman, who say so, and there is the famous image of curtains being rolled down further, but also a criticism today, where we see that the response rate from the ministries is below all criticism. So the rapporteur cannot say: this is what I would like to have changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106185931	Basically, of course, there are cases where access to documents is now refused on the basis of the ministerial service rule, where we want it not to happen in the future. And that is, of course, a relaxation of the ministerial service rule, and we would very much like to get together on that. But there is no desire for this in the conciliation circle, even if we could adopt it here and now. There it is, of course, as the Minister also explained very well that we are following the conciliation practice that is in the Folketing, and I think it is healthy that we have these rules on how we govern our democracy. However, the evaluation has pointed very strongly to the fact that the ministerial service rule is not being applied, as was desired when the agreement was concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190012	The last to a brief comment at the moment is Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190018	Thank you. I really think that the rapporteur put forward such a nice market-oriented logic when she said that it should be such a competition parameter between ministers, namely to compete over who is the most public. I am very much in agreement with this and I am also glad that the Ministers of the Liberal Alliance do so, for example, so we have at least grasped that part. I really want to ask you something else. After all, it is the case with parties that are present and outside the conciliation circle that they have changed their attitude, even as they have gone in and out of government, especially out of government, but it seems to me that the Social Democracy has actually remained relatively firm during this period. Now we got, I think, a liberating honest realization from Mr. Morten Østergaard before with the Radical Left: Yes, we were wrong, the critics were right, the government was wrong. Do I really hear the same realization from the Social Democratic Party today: that the critics were right and the government was wrong then?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190110	I certainly think that the critics pointed to some of the things that we can see documented are the challenge, and therefore I cannot understand why it comes as a big surprise. However, we have always said that there should be this evaluation, and there it has certainly been our wish that the evaluation should lead to any adjustments if there was a need for it. It is therefore extremely difficult to find out when such an agreement is reached: how is it dealt with in practice? How do they choose to take it down in the ministries? Do they choose to wear a belt and braces, or do they find themselves a good bed for this? There we just have to note with the evaluation that we have chosen to wear belts and belts and, in some cases, perhaps more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190155	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190157	I don't necessarily know if it's such a big surprise either. At least it's not for us. I just think that it would be quite incredibly liberating honestly and indeed something which, unfortunately, is not so usual for a politician, namely to recognise: yes, we were wrong; there were some who were more right than we were.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190215	But I don't think that's where we are. We can see some challenges with the application of the Public Service Act, including the ministerial service rule. This is what we are discussing, and we want to adjust them, and I think that is quite real, and that is something other than running from the agreement that has been reached. Because the agreement also stated that we should carry out an evaluation, and in my world we are not doing so much evaluations unless we are also willing to change something in the back of them. So it doesn't really make sense to stand and say: we were wrong. However, there are some adjustments that I think would be wise to make, but where we do not run from the starting point on which we had an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190302	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramssen, and welcome to Mr Bramsen. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190320	Thank you for that, President. It is hardly a great surprise that we in the Danish People's Party want a revision of the Public Act. Even before the last parliamentary elections, we made it quite clear that we would work to get a future bourgeois government to revise the disgraced paragraphs of the Public Service Act. It is particularly the so-called ministerial service rule that is problematic. The rule means that documents can be exempted from access to documents if they are simply exchanged at a time when there are concrete grounds for believing that a minister has or will need the advice and assistance of the official body. After all, the Ombudsman has also clearly concluded that the introduction of the ministerial service rule into the Public Service Act has in practice led to substantial restrictions on the right of access to documents. This is worrying for our democracy. It is part of living in a democracy that we have openness and we need to open up so that citizens and journalists can again seek access to the government and the work of officials. That is why it is also a disappointment to note that the review of the Public Service Act is in complete stalemate, not least bearing in mind that both the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives were both fiercely opposed to the law before they came into government in 2016. Yes, it is even in the government base that the government will ease the protection of the internal and political decision-making process by the ministerial service rule in relation to the current rules. I am concerned about laws such as the Public Service Act, which help to create politicians, and that was a huge mistake when the rules were tightened under the former S-SF-R government with the support of some bourgeois parties. Our wish is for us to resolve the mistakes that have been made and to unblock the rule of special ministerial service. Because we do not really understand what people should not know about in the past. In those words, of course, we fully support the proposal for adoption which Mr. Morten Østergaard has read earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190533	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190552	Thank you ▪ Denmark's genuine liberal party. The Left would have liked us to have been able to reach the goal of an agreement on a revision of the Public Service Act. After all, we were aware, when we passed the Public Access Act, that there were some innovations, and that is why we also jointly introduced a clause that we should review the Public Access Act after some time to see if it worked according to its intention. What we wrote, and which has also been read out earlier, that the ministerial service rule should be interpreted restrictively, had not been given the scope we had expected in the conciliation circle. At the same time, this was the principle of public access, which is also part of the Public Access Act. So in the Left, we agreed that we should amend the Public Service Act, and that is why we also find it a pity that the negotiations that have taken place on those changes have not shrunk out of place. There has been criticism of the things that have come from the Ministry of Justice, but without the presentation, at least not at the meetings that I have attended, of what one wants. For the simple fact that we now need to remove the rule of ministerial service, and now we need to remove the rule of parliamentary politics. The latter, I think, would be a really, really bad idea, without putting anything else in place, we are opposed by the Left. I also think that, as I said earlier, there is such an element of last day's sacredness over much of this debate, so that we suddenly discover what was actually adopted at the time. There were things that we could be in doubt about the scope of, but there was no doubt that the ministerial service rule would of course mean that, in future, when documents are not exchanged between a ministry and a board, that means that those documents can no longer be accessed. That's why you make a provision. So then to come and be very shocked and say that no, we did not foresee that, I must say it is a little strange to witness. One can say that one has regretted and that pressure from the media etc. has been greater than one has been able to stand for, or that one has changed one's mind, etc. But like coming and being surprised that the law has had the effect, as it were, in the paragraphs, I must say is a little strange. But we want to be part of a change. We would very much like to see us get through the changes that came from the Ministry of Justice and, as Mrs Trine Bramsen pointed out very well, among other things. would have meant that a number of documents would have been accessible in this so-called child-breaking case, i.e. if the amendments proposed by the Ministry of Justice had been adopted. But that was not good enough for the parties that are now behind the debate here today, without saying, as it were, what was proposed should be replaced. I do not know why it has come to a halt, whether there has been a loss of momentum. I think it went really well. We got the case law from a number of other countries, and we had some good meetings of experts in the Ministry of Justice, and at some point it was just as if things were running a bit into the sand. Now we are approaching an electoral date, and perhaps the will is not really there for those parties that now see that it is something that can be put to the polls and perhaps get a case that one thinks might be a little relevant. That's the way it is, and that's really too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190924	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106190930	Yeah, I can't help pulling a little bit on the smile tape. I assume that none of what the government is doing is in order to find cases that might be relevant in an election campaign, one must understand with all the things that are going on. But if Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and the Left believe that this was a good thing in an election campaign, so one can only call for you to sort of find your way into the leg and take hold and do something, because it is at least imprecise when you say that all information exchanged between a board and a ministry is excluded. On the contrary, that is exactly why the evaluation showed that it went too far in relation to what the rapporteur himself said. Nor do I think it is quite fair to have taken part in the negotiations themselves, to present it as if there were good momentum, and that it can also be difficult to understand why it came to a halt when the Minister for Justice said at the last meeting that there was this bill and otherwise it did not materialise. My question, however, is: how did the Liberal Party, which has the Environment Minister's office, actually manage to do any work at all, since in the environmental field it is still subject to the old public law?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191039	I think the Minister for the Environment should ask that question. As far as I can tell, it's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191043	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191045	Yes, I have the same view as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. There is, of course, the funny thing about the Minister for the Environment that both sets of rules are in play at the same time, but it only makes it clear that it is possible to do so. I even believe that there is a former Minister for the Environment who can talk about the fact that we can also make difficult efforts to ensure that not all the information is provided in the advice we have received. Eventually, they did. The point here, however, is that it would not be the mother of all disasters if the openness that existed before the last amendment of the law on public access to documents were restored, and therefore the big question is: why does the Left not want to do so? Is it not the liberal approach to ensure transparency in how power is managed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191128	But has anyone claimed that it would be the mother of all disasters? Well, is there anyone who would say that everything would collapse? Of course not. We had a public law earlier, and we have a public law now. No one has claimed that no legislative work could be done before the public law came. Don't make such a populist exaggeration. Of course not. We made a public law because we were some who thought that, for example, the introduction of new technology, which was not there when the old public law was in force, meant that a great deal of information previously exchanged orally at meetings or by telephone was now written texts, e-mails, etc. And that is why there was a need to change the public law. There was also a need to amend the Public Service Act, because the governing bodies were involved much more in the legislative preparatory work than they had been in the past, and there is also much greater cooperation between ministries. And we thought that the changed reality, including the Radical Left, should also be reflected in a changed public law. But now you mean something quite different, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191241	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191244	I put the same question to the Social Democratic Party that I would now like to put to the Left: what considerations has the Left made in relation to the criticism that has been made of the law? Is there any of the criticisms that make an impression on the Left? We have seen that the Ombudsman has come out of several rounds and has said that this law has some negative consequences, that power closes around itself at a level, and at the same time, for example, the ministries do not respond to the questions they are asked at the rate they should. I mean, there have been a whole series of criticisms. Does the rapporteur not impress at all that this criticism comes from the Ombudsman? I think it is very serious, but what is the rapporteur's assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191338	Of course it does. That is why we have been in the negotiations. It is not the Left that has slowed down so that we could get through with something. But that requires that we can agree. And when some people keep saying that it is not enough that they want something more, but without saying what else it should be, it is, of course, that the negotiations break down. As I said in my speech, it is a pity that we have not had a review done, because we believe that a review is necessary. So with regard to the seven days mentioned in the law, which is the starting point for access to documents, this is the exception rather than the rule in a number of ministries. But it's not the law that's wrong with it. The law's pretty good. After all, some ministries do not sufficiently comply with the law. It is questionable and the Ombudsman has voiced his criticism of it. I agree with that, and I strongly assume that the ministries are tightening it up. But there is no need for a change in the law. There is just a need for ministries to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191434	This is interesting. It may be that I have heard the Minister's statement today wrong, but I heard that the conciliation circle could not get the ends to meet; that it could not be evaluated and adjusted as it would like. You just couldn't do that. And then I hear that the Social Democrats say they were ready to make an adjustment, and I hear the Left say that they were ready to make an adjustment. What, then, has done that we have not been able to reach each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191508	It is, after all, the alternative and the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. Sorry, of course, it's just the conciliation parties. It is mainly the SF and the Radicals who do not think that the proposals that came were sufficiently far-reaching without being able to say what they would then have instead. I mean, it's not because no proposals have been made. There have been plenty of suggestions on how we can change the Public Service Act. And if I am to be quite honest, said in this confidential room where no one belongs, I would say that the amendments that came from the Ministry of Justice, I was surprised. I thought, "Oh, my God, they actually go quite far. That surprised me, and it surprised me positively. But when it doesn't get bitten by the other conciliation parties, who say it's not good enough away, we're not good enough to be caught in a situation where we can't move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191614	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191616	The situation was that these were very, very minor changes, and what we had agreed, and what was also talked about when the government was enlarged with two new parties.What was written in the government constitution was that some real changes had to be made. And that's just not what we got on the table. But now the rapporteur says it is because there is a choice just around the corner. I mean, after the 2015 elections, and I'm gonna get on the platform and also explain the SF's role in all of this, I became the legal rapporteur, and I think it took two weeks, and then we had an announcement that we were sorry about what we had done, and that we wanted to see a change happen, etc. So we have been working on it since then, and Conservatives and Radicals were also out of it in 2015, and the rapporteur has been with us all the way, so he knows that this is something we have been working on for years. But Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says it's crazy to say that you want to take something out, the ministerial service rule, without replacing anything else. However, as I also said to Mrs Trine Bramsen, we have a number of things in the Public Service Act in relation to legislative preparation, in relation to internal documents, in relation to vital social interests, etc., so we have a number of things that, even without the ministerial service rule, will be able to secure the confidential space that we all believe there should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191756	But we simply do not agree with that. After all, a whole report has been produced on this with the former Ombudsman Hans Gammeltoft-Hansen in the lead, and if it had been thought that these provisions were not necessary, they would not have been proposed. In other words, if it had been thought that it had been covered by the other more general provisions, as the SF now points out, it would not have been proposed here. It is a really, really thorough work which is the basis of the public law. But even with such a thorough job, you can get a law together that is not exactly the way we would have liked it to be. And I am saying here from Parliament's platform that with the practice that has come out of the Public Service Act, access to less than we would have expected from the Left when we concluded the agreement with the then SRSF government. And that is why it is a little strange that two of the three parties were in government at the time, who are now saying that everything was just a bad thing and that the rule of ministerial service must go out completely, because you were sitting in government yourself when it was proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191903	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106191904	Thank you. After all, I have not been able to attend the conciliation round, which is being discussed so eagerly here today; it is quite exciting, I feel almost let into one of those so-called open spaces we are always talking about, isn't it? I would just like to know why the government is not making this proposal, which is supposed to be so good. Because I understand that if we do what has been on the table in the negotiating rooms, it will be much better, and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and the Left really like to do that. All I have to say is that if it is an improvement, the Enhedslisten will be happy to vote for it, even if it is not the full package. I even believe that Radicals and the SF would like to vote in favour of it. When they step out of the conciliation, this is not the same as a desire not to vote for improvements, then it is a desire to be free to actually do it even better one day after election. So I just want to know when that bill is being tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192004-2	Well, as I understand the tradition of conciliation, it requires agreement to change a settlement. Then you can cancel a settlement, and then you can change something after a choice. It would be nice if we could make a new settlement, much like with Enhedslisten • the more, the better, so much like. But that will require a new conciliation with the same conciliation parties. So we would have liked to have been able to agree on some amendments to the public law, but we have not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192046	Well, I have to admit, I don't really understand. Radical Left and SF have said: we will be free for the next elections, we have terminated the settlement. I guess the government can put forward a bill so you can vote through. I simply cannot understand why this cannot be done. The government wasn't supposed to be excused by it. I would actually like to ask something else, because now we are talking a lot about the ministerial service rule, which is, yes, elastic in meter size, and it is certainly surprising enough, even though everyone is warning against it, interpreted extremely restrictively, no, not restrictively, but as a huge blackout. But the rule of parliamentary politics is not an interpretation rule, it's just: Boom! If it's exchanged between a member of parliament and a minister, it's a closed country. What was it that was exchanged between ministers and members of parliament before 2013 ■ where it was therefore possible to exclude ongoing negotiations and preparatory work which we need to cover up?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192153	I think that the rule of parliamentary politics is excellent, i.e. that you have the opportunity to exchange e-mails and text messages, and what do I know, with ministers without having to wonder if others can read into what you write, just as we can politicians in parliament. In other words, if I send a text or some pictures of the Left Legal Rapporteur to Mrs Pernille Skipper, no one can have access to it; that is a message between us. But if Mrs Pernille Skipper were a minister, we should consider whether there was access to the correspondence in question, and I think that would be greatly appreciated by both Mrs Pernille Skipper and myself, and not least the rapporteur on the law of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192237	Then it's time to get a hold of the phone (Laughter Thank you to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, and welcome to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192312	It's actually very serious. It just sounded so wrong. This is indeed a matter for our hearts, because openness about the administration, the rulers at the heart of the administration, that is to say the ministries at Slotsholmen, in the departments, is the prerequisite for us to have a democracy, that is to say, that the citizens, the public, can control the way in which the rulers carry out their work. That is why we also call the press and the public part of the state power. I also believe that the distrust of politicians and decision-makers that we are experiencing between politicians and citizens can be reduced if we increase democratic control, and the public law is a large part of that. Now I've had a very long love affair with this law and have been discussing it for many, many years. Every time I discuss the public law with some citizens, it is part of a talk of distrust of politicians; then it is part of a talk of distance and lack of confidence. That is why I believe that increasing openness for once would have a positive effect on our democratic conversation, too, in order to be a little loud about it. When we come to the concrete stage of development that this law has come through, because it is a law that we have been dealing with for incredibly many years in here, then I begin to sense how there is a tendency to change attitudes, depending on whether you are on the taboos, which are extremely pervasive. The further away from the taboos you are in some way, the more you are for openness, and then there are like such curves that pass by each other. But at some point the sun and the moon and the stars must come together, I think, and I suppose this is an important step for us in the Enhedslisten for. It is so important for us that we have got some parties tied up to want something else, and I actually think it is very good that some parties have dared to cancel a settlement and say that although it is an improvement, it is not good enough for them that they want us to be free to do something even better. It is only in this way that we can actually obtain a majority in order to make things right. There are several elements that this law has changed, but it is above all the three rules on calendars, ministerial service, which we have discussed a great deal, and then the so-called parliamentary rule, which is most problematic. If the rule of ministerial service had existed in the past, there would have been countless cases which we had not seen and which had not come to public knowledge. I was messing with this the other day, because what were these cases? But there was the case of Claus Hjort Frederiksen, who was Minister for Employment and who wrote to the Labour Market Authority that he needed some other figures that reflected a different reality in order to win a political debate. It came out in public. It emerged that the FDA had been warned about infected raspberries which made thousands of people sick but did nothing about it. It also came out in public and we could respond to it. It emerged that Lars Løkke Rasmussen, as Minister of Health, went against the recommendation of the civil servants, thus leading to a rather grotesque overpayment of the private hospitals. There was the basis for the Iraq war. There were prisoners who were extradited to the Americans for torture. Parts of that scandal would not have emerged either if that rule had been there at the time. So it's actually pretty serious. It is not just such a small question about some text messages between some and that now there is just a technological development that has overtaken us. There is some information that we could access before, that we cannot access now, and there are some cases that do not see the light of the public. Unfortunately, I don't think those cases are there anymore. We just don't see them anymore. Then there is the rule of parliamentary politics, which I personally also think is getting too little attention, because when we sit in, for example, we sit in. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Yes. Should the public not see it if the Enhedslisten votes in favour of a Finance Act where we were warned that it would lead to increasing inequality? Well, then, we have to answer for it. If the Danish People's Party gets the government on something that goes directly against human rights it's just an entirely thought example, isn't it? Yes. So that is the openness that we lack, and these are the specific matters that we do not know about, but which we certainly do not have access to. We could talk about this for a long time. I don't have any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192840	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. No one has felt challenged to make brief remarks, so I would like to welcome Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106192859	Thank you. When the then SRSF government, together with the Left and the Conservative People's Party, changed the public law into dark unrecognizability, we in the Liberal Alliance were fiercely opposed to it. When we joined the VLAK government, we were, to put it mildly, anxious to include an ambition in the government base to relax the rule of ministerial service, and we succeeded. This is why there have been quite lengthy negotiations under the auspices of the Conciliation Committee, with the very aim of opening up and giving the press better access to follow-up and thus reporting on what is going on in the power corridors here at Slotsholmen. That is why we are also really sorry that we have not managed to get the ends to meet for a compromise that will increase transparency. We do not open up as much as we would like in LA, but open up to the legacy of thick black curtains with which the Social Democracy, the Radical Left and the SF government left the critical press and thus the information-seeking citizen. However, are the Radical Left and the SF not the two parties that have declared themselves dissatisfied with the offers of relaxation that were on the table, and therefore have broken the settlements that were in the government that built the wall of secrecy in 2013? Yes, it is, and there is so much. I am just as happy as I am that those parties have openly and honestly recognised that they went far too far in hand with the then Minister of Justice, just as sorry as I am that the five-earer did not fall before rolling down the dark curtains over the central administration. That would have been helpful, because then we would not have stood where we are today. And then we would have had fewer cases where moony journalists receive side-by-side with black-out reports about what is going on or not going on in the political decision-making processes. I would actually like to show a little that LA is the only party that has meant the same thing about the public law, both outside and within government offices. And when it looks as if we have to declare the negotiations for a relaxation of the Public Access Act dead, we are again going to vote to relax the paragraphs which are responsible for the excessive number of refusals made at the request of access to documents. For insight, openness and transparency is an essential prerequisite for a strong liberal democracy. As we wait for the majority, you might say, we work in LA on a daily basis to open up more and give more insight to the press. Most recently, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, has amended a decree and incorporated four state companies under the Public Procurement Act, which has so far been exempted. This is, for example, the case. on the IT company COMBIT, which will then have to submit documents to the public in future if they are asked to do so. It is a good step for more openness within the framework under which we as ministers now have to operate. The reaction came as soon as possible. KL's chairman and mayor of Aarhus Municipality, Jacob Bundsgaard, calls it unheard of and is concerned that it will make IT systems more expensive. Without going into the substance of that assertion, I would like to dwell on the principles here, because public opinion in the administration is actually about principles, about the prerequisites for the good, open democratic conversation. Frankly, I think it's a bit crazy to argue against it with a wretched argument about bottom line. Democracy is difficult, but making the building blocks on which the enlightened, open democratic society is built into a matter of money is simply too far-fetched. Frankly, I hope that the supporters of the secrecy can swing up to something a little better than that, and otherwise it is good to get exactly the yes out into the open. In the Liberal Alliance, we continue to fight for more openness. We support Mrs Trine Bramsen's proposal for adoption. And I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader, and say they do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193329	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193335	I often feel that, although I can very much disagree with the Liberal Alliance, I run with ease, because I remember what it is like to be in a government where parties are far apart and where it can be difficult. Often I have a great understanding of the Liberal Alliance. And being a liberal party in a government with handshakes and burka and surveillance etc. It's hard. That is why I really think that this long list of everything that has happened in the past is superfluous when what we are dealing with now is a government that has not been able to live up to its government basis. I hope the rapporteur will agree with this, because what was on the table is hopefully not the level of ambition of the Liberal Alliance. I really hope it isn't. We were in government, and then we say that we were wrong or that we should not have done so, or how we are going to put it. But the Liberal Alliance has also gone into government and has entered into a settlement, that is to say, one of the things they said was the worst thing in the world. So I can't quite understand that such contemptuous approach that we're trying to change it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193504-2	I simply wonder whether the questioner heard my speech, because I do not think there was a contemptible approach, at least that was not the intention. However, I think it is fair to point out the paradox that there is in going in and out of government offices and changing attitudes towards the Public Service Act. I also think it is fair on behalf of my own party, because yes, it is true that in some cases we have had difficulty in being in government, but here is actually a case where we think exactly the same today as we did in 2013 when the SF sat in the previous government. I also think it is fair to say that if it were not for the Liberal Alliance, it would never have been the ambition of this government to relax the rule of ministerial service. Then it is true that we have failed to achieve that ambition. I hope that the question put by the questioner is not implicit in thinking that it is the fault of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193602-2	No, absolutely not. But you can't blow and have flour in your mouth. The rapporteur is part of a government party in which ministers from the Liberal Alliance speak on behalf of the government, and this is the position of the government. That's really just my argument. And you cannot disclaim any responsibility, because the moment you enter a government and join in a settlement, you also have responsibility for that settlement. Well, you have. It can't be any different. But then for something more forward-looking. Mrs Christina Egelund says that the Liberal Alliance will go to the polls to use this majority to get it right. I'm really glad. But does this mean that the Liberal Alliance does not imagine that, if the blue bloc has a majority after the next elections, it will form a government again? 'Cause I guess nothing's changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193659	I have to dwell a little on what the questioner said first, namely the fact that you cannot blow and have flour in your mouth at the same time. I simply do not think we do. Nor do I believe that we bear any responsibility for the law that was introduced in 2013. And the fact that we are part of a government in which there are different... yes, the questioner said that one bears a responsibility for the settlement one enters into. In any case, the fact that you are part of a government in which there are internal differences of opinion in this area does not mean that we stop saying what we mean. Does this mean that the differences will disappear? No, it doesn't. But that certainly does not mean that we have stopped fighting for openness and argue for what we think is right. So to the answer to what was actually the question: is it essential for us, after the next elections, to continue the fight for more openness, regardless of what constellation we will have in government or non-government terms? Yes, it will be again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193747	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193749	The latter seems to me to be very important because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, this is the beginning of the next chapter. We all know what that is like when it comes to the fact that government parties cannot suddenly be allowed to vote freely according to their convictions. It's like the government has to come together on a line, and it's so expressed here. I would just like to ask whether there is anything in the proposal for adoption by us who have raised the question today, that is to say, to remove the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary rule, to ensure that we can gain insight into state companies, that the processing period should be maintained, which the Liberal Alliance's attitude would not commit itself to today and work for?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193833-2	There is nothing in the text of the adoption that we are not entirely in line with in terms of attitude. In fact, one of the things we are working with in our daily life is that of giving more insight into what is going on in state companies. That is what I said in my speech that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has done. He has included four state companies, which have so far been exempt from the Public Service Act... he has brought them under the Public Service Act by amending a notice. So, within the framework of what we can, we are working according to the views expressed by the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193906	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193907	Now we do not get the Conservative rapporteur's own words for it, but I have put what the Minister of Justice has said earlier today as a basis, namely that the Conservative People's Party feels the same way. That is why we have to note that, in order to make this happen, we have to do what we do and cancel the conciliation and wait for a parliamentary election. For although it was in the government of the government of which the Liberal Alliance is a part, it has not happened. The rule of ministerial service has not been relaxed to the extent that we are talking about here. I would like to say this: we accept responsibility for having made the mistake of introducing it, but it will be for the sake of the Liberal Alliance and the rest of the government that the government's basis has not materialised on this point. You can only take responsibility for that yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106193952	But I do not run from any responsibility to the extent that we are responsible for anything. In relation to the process of reaching each other during this parliamentary term, I do not think anyone has been more eager than us to have the public law relaxed. I would also like to take credit for the fact that it was written in at all as an ambition in the government base and thus put on the agenda. I regret the failure to achieve a result more than anyone else. There's no way I'm running away from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194028	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194030	First of all, I really have very, very much respect for the rapporteur and the way in which the Liberal Alliance acts. You stand by what you mean, both when you're in government and when you're outside the government. I'm just gonna say that as a prayer for the next one. Because there's something totally surreal about this debate. Everyone says they want this law to be changed. I can't figure out who's gonna take the initiative. Is it the government that has to say: we are making a better bid for it because we can see that the parties that used to be involved in the conciliation have stepped out of it? The rapporteur stands up here and says: I fully agree and I could have signed both statements. Who should take the initiative when there is such a broad consensus that we need better regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194130	First of all, thank you for those really nice words. I'm really glad about those. I kind of agree. One might also ask: What kind of weird pink elephant is this that somehow stands in its way? I think what's on the table here is that the devil is sometimes in the detail. We agree within the framework of the conciliation circle, within the framework of the conciliation parties. There is there and we have been able to hear about that today, so agreed that you will go to the right. There is only a very great deal of disagreement about how far to the right you want to go, and then you have not been able to agree to go one step to the right because there are some who would like to go four steps to the right. It is really a pity that one could not agree to go one step to the right, but that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194211	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194213	Yeah, well, I refuse to believe that the Liberal Alliance accepts that this is the way it is. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur cannot give advice to his own government and say that when there is such broad support for us to do something about this, why do we not dare take the lead? Well, why don't we? Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194242	I think, in all fairness, that we have taken the lead. I also believe that the Minister of Justice will nod to recognize that we have been annoyingly excited about this case. He does, and he laughs at it. However, my analysis of the weird situation we are in is: you have a circle of conciliation parties, everyone says that we will go right. Some say that they will take four steps and then you can agree to take one step. But you cannot do that anyway, because some of those who want to take four steps say that they would rather do nothing than take one step. It is a little strange, I agree with that, but the Liberal Alliance is prepared to take a step, even if we cannot reach the last three.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194322	Thank you, Mrs. Christina Egelund, and welcome to Mr. Uffe Elbæk from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194338	I think it is really, really good that we are having the public debate today, because a great deal has happened since we decided on it in the summer of 2013. Even then, it was a law that was much debated both within and outside our respective parties. I know it very, very well from the discussions I myself was part of in my old party, the Radicals. Personally, I have never before faced such a major political dilemma as when I was going to the Chamber on 4 June 2013. I was deeply opposed to the law, but my old party was then in favour. That's why I had to go down that day and press the yes button. As I said to my radical sidemate, Nadeem Farooq, when we had to vote: this is simply the worst moment for me as a member of parliament, because now I have to go down and vote directly against my own beliefs, but we have to follow the majority of the group. We were talking about that. So I pressed the yes button, I thought. But my moral and political subconscious had apparently taken over and led my finger to the no button, and the rest is history. I was against the law of public opinion as radical, and I am so against it today, as I represent the alternative, because it is not without reason that the public law has been given the popular nickname blackout law. With the current public law, we have achieved exactly the opposite of the original intention. Today it has become significantly harder for the public and the citizens to see the government and us politicians over their shoulders. The most striking criticisms have already been made by the previous rapporteurs, such as the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary rule, but also, most recently, the current criticism by the Ombudsman of the excessive, excessive response times from the Ministry of Integration in particular. But not only that. Years later, new things are still appearing that are deeply critical. For example: On page 85 of the comments, you can find a sentence that changes the legal effect of section 20 so that in practice you can cover documents backwards when dealing with legislative proposals. It is quite unheard of in our opinion that such fundamental changes in a bee-laying on a remote side of an annex should be excavated. Fortunately, the Minister of Justice has apologised for not including that change in the inventory of limitations when the law was put forward in 2013, but this did not happen until after a written request from the Alternative on 31 August of this year. That is to say, five years after the law was passed. In fact, with the Minister for Justice's apology, I expect you to take the consequence of the error and remove the change in the case law of § 20. But back to June 4, 2013. It was a completely wrong law that we decided then, and I hope, with what we know today, that there is now a majority in the Danish Parliament who, after an election, will help to ensure that the blackout law will once again become a law of openness which Danish democracy and we Danish citizens deserve. However, in addition to obtaining a new public law, we propose from the Alternative that the Folketing also set up a transparency committee, an expert committee which regularly, for example every two years, makes recommendations on how to create more openness in the public administration and in the political decision-making processes in the government and here in the Folketing, recommendations that the government is subsequently obliged to address. If the committee's recommendations are not followed, the government, if it stood up to us in the alternative, must explain exactly why it does not think it is necessary. In short, the alternative not only wants a new public law, we also want a transparency committee, because if the people and the media are constantly experiencing power closing down on itself, the result is not only increasing political leadership, but a decline in confidence and support for our democratic institutions as such. No one can benefit from this, either government, parliament, politicians or individual citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194823	You're welcome, sir. Uffe Elbæk. There are no brief comments, so we will turn to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who is welcome in the Chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106194840	I would like to start by following up on what Mr. Uffe Elbæk said that it is actually a little interesting that we have a current government with two out of three parties wishing to change this law, and we had a government with three parties where two out of three parties did not want the law in the first place. It may be a bit meta-type, but I think that we should also think about how we make these government constellations and how much to push each other as parties. Well, politics is a contact sport, so we shouldn't go around being delicate, absolutely not. But the question is whether it is wise, in relation to the people's view of us, to be so pressured in one direction. Because as the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund, rightly mentioned, this zigzag course is not so much because you have changed your mind, but because you are free or you are a place where you are bound. It really affects the public's view of us and the politician's attitude. I think so. And here I am not talking about whether you are genuinely for or against the public law, but more about this zigzag course, whether you are being tied up on a settlement or not. But this is a major discussion which we must save for another time. The SF helped to create the Public Act when we were in government with Social Democracy and Radicals, and without threshing long tails on it it is certainly one of the decisions that we are most sorry about, and which mostly struck us. We had a national decision in which a majority of the Members who were present simply voted in favour that, even if we were in government, we should say no to this. However, I would also like to comment on Mrs Christina Egelund earlier on that we must measure up to what we are talking about. That is not to say that you have to defend something you disagree with, but you have to stand up for the fact that this is the price you pay if you continue to take the view that intergovernmental cooperation with several parties means that you are entering into the conciliation that is there. It is clearly the most practical thing to speak with one voice, but it was something that worked on the SF. But now we don't have to talk about it much, because you can't use that much. But I just wanted to say that I got a little bit upset about what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen said earlier that it is because elections are about to take place and so on. I'm not the legal rapporteur anymore, but I have been, and I spent a lot of time doing this. And in the moment after the 2015 elections, when I became the legal rapporteur, I went out on behalf of the SF and said: we helped to do this, we regret that, and we want to change it. So I think we have spent a great many hours together, some will probably say too many hours, negotiating these things and getting explanations and all sorts of things. But there is still a fundamental difference of opinion. There are two parties which fundamentally disagree with the need for a substantial amendment to the Public Service Act. I'm not gonna stand up here and criticize that right now. This debate was called for because nothing happened. There was no progress in the negotiations, and the small things I know that we in the SF felt that it was a compromise that was put on the table were not satisfactory in terms of being able to say yes, because, as I said to Mrs Christina Egelund just before: If you say yes to an improvement, but a very, very small improvement, then we lock each other. Then there is conciliation, and then there can be another parliamentary term without us really having a public law in which we can see ourselves. And that's why we couldn't do it. Just a comment on some of that, too, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has said that if you want to remove the ministerial service rule, you have to say what you want to replace. I know that we disagree, and I respect that too, but our position is that the confidentiality that we want there to be in the future will be covered by the things I have mentioned earlier on exceptional rules, what internal papers are covered by: SF can, of course, support the adoption text that Mr. Morten Østergaard read.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195410	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195414	It is only because I think there is something in history here that is slipping a little; and here I am thinking of modern history. I know that in the Radical Left we have called on the Minister of Justice to table, on behalf of the government, the bill that Mrs Christina Egelund referred to as a small step. That is why I would just like to hear about something in this debate. Nor have I seen Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen correct me if I am wrong that the SF as a conciliation party has wanted to oppose it. What we have said is that it is not enough for us to keep our hands on the conciliation forever, but there is nothing in our doings and barns that prevents the government from putting forward the legislative proposal that the Minister of Justice seems to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195501	I fully agree with that. We will vote in favour of any improvement in the Public Service Act. Of course we will. What was just the discussion in the negotiating room, as Mr. Morten Østergaard knows that if you said yes and amen to these rather small changes, we bound each other again, and then we said: Well, that was the evaluation process, now we have to move on. That is what we and the Radicals could not stand for, and we said that we must have changed it now. But, of course, what comes to the vote in the House, what improvements are, of course, we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195538	Then I also believe that even Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has clearly heard that there is nothing to prevent the government from bringing forward the bill referred to by the Minister of Justice. There is nothing for Mrs Christina Egelund to prevent anyone from taking the first step or taking several steps. All there is is the will of the government. If the government wants to, it can put forward its bill and take that step, but that will not change the fact that the conciliation is no longer in place. The only thing left is whether the government has the will to do so, because as conciliation parties we will not prevent it from happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195619	Yes, and there I thought that what the Minister of Justice said was not entirely consistent. Because either the conciliation no longer exists, that is what we heard the Minister say, because it has been terminated and there it sounded almost as if it was the Radical Left's fault or even exists. If it doesn't exist anymore because it has been de facto abandoned because the government says it no longer applies, then all of these technicalities are that you don't do anything new unless everyone agrees on it, so not. So one could easily send a proposal to the House, saying that we could not agree, that is too bad, now we have to see what happens after an election. But there is nothing to prevent us, at least, from being able to make the improvement that we can already see all the parties of the Folketing would surely vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195714	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195716	Now I do not know whether there are any journalists following this debate at all. However, I think that if there is any news from down here, it is of course that we hear two of the parties that have been part of the conciliation, who have now withdrawn from what is actually saying to the government: we are quite ready to accept if there is a move on the part of the government. So I'm very excited when the Minister of Justice may have to close this debate in the end... I don't know the new rules here... that we see the minister on the platform and actually hear a comment from the minister. However, is it really understood that the rapporteur can at any rate speak for his own party that the SF would very much like to see the government come up with an initiative in this area, even before an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195812	We think that, although what was put forward was by no means good enough, because we needed something that was substantially better, in order to be able to be tied up in a settlement again, it would still be an improvement. That is clearly what is on the table and, of course, we would be voting for that improvement if it came as an amendment from the government to the existing public law. It would not, of course, prevent us from continuing to work with the other parties of the Folketing for something that is better. But, you know, every improvement we have to vote for, I think, it gives itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195850	I really think this is interesting, because we have heard from both the Social Democrats and the Left that they think there were some significant improvements on the table in the negotiations that have taken place. Then we hear from the SF and from Radicals that these improvements were not felt to be significant enough, and that is why we have withdrawn. Well, it's just before I think I'm going to apply for access to what has been of documents in this area. But can I ask the rapporteur how she views what has happened here today with the comments that have come from the Left and the Social Democrats respectively?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106195935	I take the view that all parties in the Folketing, regardless of how they view the Public Service Act, whether it was a good idea or not, or whether they want to abolish paragraphs 24 and 27 etc. or not, say without exception: let us at least take that step. We don't know what happens after an election. It is uncertain and all sorts of parties can be tied up in new government constellations etc. Well, at least let's get this straight. If everyone thinks this is an improvement, no matter what else they think of the public law, then let us do so. If the Minister thinks that the conciliation has been terminated, then we are also parties that can in principle do so themselves. If the government finds it inappropriate for the government to do so, then we can put it down and say that we will continue to work on the broad front.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200030	Thank you very much to Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for the rapporteur's speech and welcome to the Minister of Justice. It has not changed the way in which the Minister for Justice speaks after the rapporteurs for 10 minutes. And I would also like to say that we usually ask whether the rapporteur for the questioners has a final comment if we do not have a new round afterwards, of course. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200055	Thank you. It has been very interesting to listen to the debate, and it has been such a substantive discussion of how it could end and what to do and back and forth. And I can say that I have heard nothing new, so nothing that has surprised me because of the views that have emerged, I have heard that the parties have. And we have been running around a lot with conciliation and so on, and I think I will just have to say briefly that I will not be able to make a proposal on the basis of which the current conciliation group agrees that a new conciliation circle should be formed. That is simply not possible, because I have heard it very clearly that the SF and Radicals have said: yes, we will support it, but then we will cancel it immediately. I mean, our practice must be the same as it is in terms of conciliation. We have a settlement, and if something is to be changed in the settlement, we must agree. If we can't agree, then we don't have a new settlement. Then you can cancel the settlement. It has now been terminated, and that means that when the parliamentary elections have been held and it sounds like there are a hundred years to it, but the last time I checked, it has to be by mid-June next year that we have to vote • then the parties are no longer bound by a settlement because it has been terminated by the conciliation parties. It is possible that the Socialist People's Party will officially state that they are terminating the conciliation, but I have not heard that, and if I am wrong, then I am wrong. But I've heard Mr. Morten Østergaard says that the Radical Left has terminated the settlement. And Mr. Uffe Elbæk should not seek access to documents; you can simply search for Infomedia, because I believe that all the papers we have presented have been leaked from an edge. So there you can sort of get an insight into it very quickly. In principle, I did not want to enter into such a substantive discussion of it, because I think the principle is that it is a question debate on what we can inform about the Public Service Act and the consideration of amending it. And yes, we have had many meetings; many questions have been asked; there is a relaxation on the table. That is what I could put forward, and there is no consensus on that. Some would like to go further. I can't deliver that, and that's where it stops. And then the parties can have a long debate on this when there has been a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200342	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200346	I would like to ask the Minister whether he sees the settlement as existing or terminated. That's one. The second is that in conciliation there are such a little comradely rules that we have made in here, where we say that there is no law dictating anything, but there is a gentleman's statement about how we should stand by the things we have agreed. If we can no longer see ourselves in it, we will leave the conciliation, and after an election it will be a new agenda. That is what the Minister is referring to. But the fact that you cannot change anything in a settlement unless everyone agrees is, of course, to protect one or more parties in the settlement from being run over. There are no parties that will not vote in favour of the bill, which is an improvement. Even the two parties, which have been the hardest critics of changing massively in the Public Service Act, also say today that they think it is good proposals because they want to screw some buttons within the existing one. So the situation of minority protection, with the protection of parties that are in a conciliation • that's why we usually say that you do not change anything unless you basically agree that it doesn't exist here. Because we are in the amazing situation of all the parties in the Folketing saying: we would actually like to vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200519	It is difficult for me to comment on everything very precisely here, because I do not think it would be fair for me to stand here and say that people have said it and it in one room and that and that in another room. I may have heard mistakes, and in that case it is a new piece of information for me, but I have not heard that all the conciliation parties have the view that they say that whether you agree and can form a new conciliation circle or not, you agree to put it forward here. The prerequisite for changing it should then be that they said: then we make a change, then we form a new conciliation circle and then a new settlement, and if we do not agree on that, then the conciliation has been terminated. I consider this settlement to be terminated. In other words, it applies to elections and then no longer to elections. I think this is the best way I can answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200614	That is also the classic way of seeing a settlement, so I can easily follow the Minister's advice. My point is that when we normally say that we do not change anything in a settlement unless everyone agrees on it, it is to protect each other and the agreements we have entered into. But now we are faced with a situation in which all the parties in the Folketing say: this is a step forward and, at least, it is something we want. So there is no one to molest politically or step over, or whatever it may be, by saying: we are now putting it in the Chamber, then everyone is happy on the short track, and then we have to see what happens after an election where the parties are free. There are no parties that say: no, we do not want this. I don't think in my 7 years in here I've been in such a situation. After all, conciliation is not tied up in a law, the Minister is not violating any laws. These are the rules we have agreed with each other for how we behave. If then all the parties in the Folketing say that we should at least get this improvement through, why should such a few excuses, which are not even tied up in a law, but just on agreements that we can make with each other and change, stand in the way of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200738	I guess it's very good that we're in line with the rules of the law that we have with each other, regardless of whether you can ask what is in this situation and what it is like. One cannot necessarily conclude from this what has been left of the individual party in terms of thinking about where one has moved in relation to what is now on the table. It may well be that some people have to have the prerequisite to move to exactly where we are now, that it is of course necessary to form a new circle of conciliation and that it is not something that needs to be put forward in the Chamber, so that some people can then say: well, we are not part of that, by the way. I think that's fair enough. But I am not going to stand here interpreting and referring from what various parties might think.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200828	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200831	I wonder if the Minister for Justice will get the crab to what should have been the point of entry into the debate, namely that there is not the will, not of the SF and the Radical Left, which has now been critical of the conciliation, but elsewhere in the conciliation circle, and among other things. Therefore, the government cannot put forward the bill. Because it hasn't slimmed down on calls to do exactly that. However, the condition has been that you should hold your hand during the conciliation process in the future. And that is why there is the paradox that is now being described here. Today we have heard that all the parties in the Folketing want this. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Justice: if others are putting forward the government's bill, what will the government do about its own bill if it is going to be debated in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106200918-2	I assume that, in that case, the position of the government might be to put forward a proposal based on something that has not been published and was part of a debate, then I think we will vote against because there has been no new conciliation. Because the government has come up with a proposal for relaxation. I have to admit, I really have to try to think this is the world's biggest problem we're facing right now. We just found that the settlement has been terminated. That means that all parties will have the opportunity, after an election which will be in six or seven months' time, perhaps before, to take this discussion. So I guess we're close to the fact that no matter where you're in this debate, you can do something about it very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201010	But it was also only because I thought that the Minister for Justice left another impression at the beginning, namely that it should have been us who blocked the draft law. It is important, I think, to say that this is not the case. When the government does not live up to the government basis, it is because the government did not want to do so with the conditions that now existed. So on the next question, the forward-looking one, where all parties can think what they want. Unfortunately, we did not hear from the Conservative rapporteur today because he was prevented from staying here for the debate. However, we have heard from the Minister for Justice today, who answers, and I quote: "We have said where we stand earlier and there we are still." Could the Minister for Justice, as the Minister for Justice has said this earlier today, just explain where it is that the Conservative People's Party is still standing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201054	I won't, no matter how weird it may look. I stand here as a representative of the government, and you do that when you are a minister, and the questioner knows that very well. It's like you can always discuss who stops what in this process. However, it is true that the Radical Left and the SF are ready to vote in favour of the proposal put on the table by the government, but one is not ready to say that this is where the conciliation circle is because one wants to move forward. I have full respect for that. And then it's clear that I can't do it with the training I have. I need a consensus circle that will form a new settlement. I simply do not see how this can be done from the discussions we have had. I don't think so, sir. Morten Østergaard can see.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201133	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201134	It's really not to be polemical we're going home soon for dinner, is it? The Minister for Justice Jo) but can the Minister not try to explain to those who may be following this debate how they should understand that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament who would like to change the law, but that no one can find out how to put forward a bill on it? So I understand the dilemma of having elections in six months' time and all the rules of the game around conciliation circles and so on. etc., but those who are following this debate must think: what the hell is going on? Well, every party says this law isn't good enough. All parties say they want to change it. But no one can figure out how to put a bill in the hall. I mean, people must think it's very incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201231	Yeah, I can understand that if you think that's the way it is in our everyday life in here sometimes. However, I think it is only important to say that it may well happen that one agrees that one is ready to move and agree on something, but I do not think that the five parties or six parties with LA because they are part of the government are exactly the same place in terms of agreeing on what and how much. You don't. It may well happen that I have put something on the table as a relaxation, as a compromise proposal that goes as far as I can now go within the conciliation circle there is, but it is not the case that those parties stand in the same place now and say: then we agree on it, then we have a new agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201323	It may be that the last question is a little subtle, isn't it? But does the Minister for Justice need help (great cheerfulness Well, it seems that with the knowledge that is now present there is a majority. The government says it can't put forward anything, but then it may be that some of us other than us should also be some of us who aren't in the conciliation circle at all should put us together and then offer help.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201356	Thanks for the offer. I don't need any help. Maybe I do, but not for this proposal. It may well happen that it would in general daily be a good idea with some help. However, I would like to take on the role of the square type of person who says that when we have a settlement, we have a settlement and if we all agree to change that settlement and there is a new conciliation circle, then we do not have it. Now the settlement has been terminated, and when there have been parliamentary elections, I feel convinced that I can hear from today's debate that there will then be a discussion about what a public law should look like in the future. I guess that could mean we can come home and have some dinner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201440	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? The rapporteur for the authors of a final remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201450	I would like to thank you for the debate. I actually think we went a little further. Not least, I think it is important to make clear that now I have been in this Parliament for a few years and helped to settle both from the government bench and as an opposition politician that there is nothing in this case that prevents the government from putting forward that bill in the usual conciliation procedure, because termination only applies after a parliamentary election. That's why you don't need that excuse. But I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for having, in the name of transparency, relieved a little more of this in the end and said that this is probably not due to the parties behind the question, but to some others, that you will not, unless you can get away with one step instead of the four. And that's what was modest, that's that you couldn't, and then you wouldn't want anything. We regret that the government will not and will not take the initiative. Today in Parliament, where it counts, we have not heard any party rapporteurs say that they will not support that change. That is why we are calling for this initiative to be taken. According to the PM, it's a long time before there's a parliamentary election. There are plenty of legislative proposals that need to be tabled, and you can just do that. I would like to say that I still think that this debate is a little special because we are in a situation where there is a majority in the Folketing whose will cannot be put through. It is clear that this situation can be settled, but I also think it is essential that we have now heard from a broad circle of parties, such as 'and there I would like to put my head on the block and say that it will probably be a majority, even after a parliamentary election, that it will happen at the latest there. I believe that with the proposal for adoption that we have put forward, the writing on the wall can be seen in relation to where it will be carried. That is why, at the latest, we will be able to rectify this situation. I think it's a little awkward when you've heard, among other things. The Social Democrats' rapporteur says that if there is openness of the nature that existed before changing the law, there will be some who will be afraid to tell the truth or to organise themselves without access to documents etc. It is not to be naive, because there are plenty of discussions in a government and which one has with one another, but I still think that one should be careful not to argue too much along that path, because it leaves people with exactly the impression they have got, namely that power wants to close itself. In any case, I believe that it cannot be left to the discretion of each minister to have access to it and to what is not to be accessed by a competition parameter, I think it was called. I also think it was essential that the rapporteur of the Left had corrected his view that it should have been said: gone, is not good for the legislative proposal, but it was just said that it was too small to hold hands during the conciliation, and therefore more should be done. But, of course, we could have taken that step if, among other things, Left would have wanted it. I am glad that the Liberal Alliance has confirmed that they believe the same as they have done all along. That's good for the future. The fact that it has not been possible to do so while you have been in government is a pity, but all well comes to the person who is waiting for it. Finally, I would like to say to the Minister for Justice that I think it was a good thing that we finally got honesty and frankness. We are in a situation here because there really is a minority in the Folketing who want more or less to maintain the rules that exist. If that minority had not been part of the conciliation circle, the majority could have put its will through. I still see the Minister for Justice's statement today as saying that the Conservative People's Party is still trying to find a way of restoring the state of affairs before the last amendment of the Public Service Act, and thus also that we are a good step on the road towards it and thus served the debate its purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201920	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 8 November 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181106201936	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 7 November 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
