ParlaMint-DK_20181026100033	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 83 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Arms and Explosives). Bill No. L 84 (Proposal for a law on the fight against juvenile delinquency) and Bill No. L 85 (Proposal for a law amending the law on social services, the law on adult responsibility for children and young people placed in care and the law on social security). Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-22 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the limitation of foreign aid to Danish free schools). Søren Søndergaard (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF): Request no. F 14 (What can the government say about Denmark's relationship to Saudi Arabia so far and about the immediate and long-term reactions of the Danish government to the Saudidic dictatorship's murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181026100119	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026100158	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026100214	You gotta drive a car when you drive a car. We see this in various advertisements, warning signals on television, where the Council for Safe Traffic points out how dangerous it is if we are not aware of what is happening in traffic. Unfortunately, every year there are very many accidents in traffic, and although we have had the number reduced, far too many are still missing. You could say that every accident is too much. But some of what we can see is most decisive, when, as a driver, you cannot keep your hands off your mobile phone when you need to check whether there is anything new on the phone or you are sitting and calling from it. The figures we have at our disposal show very clearly that this is one of the most disturbing factors which causes the most accidents. It is therefore positive that it is now widely agreed in the Danish Parliament to table this bill which calls for stricter penalties for the use of handheld mobile phones and other communication equipment in your car. It has been the case up to now that a fine has been imposed, and the proposal here calls for a cut in the driving licence as well. When we on the part of the Social Democratic Party sat and prepared this proposal, there was also a certain scepticism about the members of the Social Democratic Party in the Committee on Transport. Some said: 'Ah, the next thing will be that it must then be banned with a hand-held Coke.' Suddenly there was one of the employees who could report that he had lost one of his very best friends in a traffic accident. The friend and father had been on their way to buy Christmas tree on Christmas Eve, and suddenly there was a stressed man with a cell phone by the ear who had run him down. A young man with his whole life ahead of him, with dreams of having a family, making a career, suddenly he wasn't here anymore. There we understood how serious it is that these things are happening because we are inattentive. So, although we can sit at home and agree that, ah, we should not now have too zealous rules, it is unfortunately necessary that we have clear rules and also that we on the part of society send the very clear signal: don't use handheld mobile phones when driving. It is simply too dangerous, and it is also more dangerous than eating your lunch or drinking a cola or anything else while driving. It is one of the most dangerous to use handheld mobile phones or sit and send text messages or anything else. It is therefore a good thing that the rules in this area are tightened up and that it is linked to a clip in the driving licence. One might consider evaluating this bill after a while to see if it has had the effect one wants, and also perhaps see if it has an unnecessary effect in the sense that some people risk losing their driving licences, although this has been a very small mistake that has been made. The balance must be found, but punishing people harder for driving with a handheld mobile phone is a good thing, and the Social Democrats support this bill. We back it up because you have to drive a car when you drive a car.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026100539	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. We move on to Mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026100547	Thank you, President. The draft law we are discussing today concerns the tightening up of penalties for the use of handheld telecommunications equipment while driving. Eventually, we all have our own cell phones or tablets, and we use them diligently, perhaps too diligently, because it is actually a large part of today's hours that we spend sending messages, reading messages and reading news and updating us. It is therefore also becoming a growing problem that more and more accidents occur which are caused solely by inattentiveness while driving, by use of and tablet or mobile phone for either speech, text message, reading messages or other. It is therefore only natural that all this unnecessary use of mobile phone and tablet should now be stopped while driving, and therefore, as in the past, the fines of DKK 1,500 are not only imposed. We all have the opportunity to acquire this kind of equipment with hands-free operation, and we don't need to use the phone or tablet while driving our tour to and from work or anything else. That is why we in the Danish People's Party naturally want to support this tightening of the law and vote clearly in favour of this change, so that hopefully we will have far fewer accidents on the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026100733	I would like to thank the rapporteur, and we shall move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026100748	Thank you, sir. President. Happily, there has been a dramatic drop in the number of road deaths and serious accidents over the last 10-15 years in Denmark, but we still have a long way to go to get down to an even lower level and there we know what the causes of the serious accidents are and one of the main reasons is precisely inattentiveness while driving. Inattentiveness is, among other things, when you are sitting with your cell phone and texting, perhaps even watching a YouTube movie. There are examples of some sitting with an iPad on the steering wheel trunk and such can pee a little on a movie while driving a car etc., and there is no doubt that it is deadly. There's scientific evidence of that. That's what we're dealing with now with this bill, because in addition to a fine of $1,500, this bill also gives you a cut in the driver's licence, and so we're giving clear instructions to the drivers that this is dangerous and that it's unacceptable, and we're really happy about that in the Left. It is, moreover, a balanced landing. If you take Italy now, you can see that there is much more consistency. There you lose your license on the spot if you get caught driving and using a mobile phone. We're not that categorical in Denmark. We think this is a good, balanced solution, where we send out the clear signal that is needed, and we hope, of course, that people will take note of it. It is also worth noting that the bill makes this technology neutral, because if we were thinking about this ten years ago, it was only mobile phones, but technological developments are moving fast, and there are a large number of equipment that can be used in the car, for example. is there something called smartwatches smart watches, said in Danish, which is also covered by this ban if they are handheld. The same applies with handheld GPS, computer and other. So all that is handheld and that can take attention is what we now include in this technology-neutral approach, whereas what is installed in the car is legal just to emphasize it, because there were some who were nervous about whether you could not enter your GPS. You can, because it's mounted in the car, and it's not as dangerous as if you're greasy with something handheld. So what's installed in the car is still gone okay. So with these words, the Left can support this bill, and I should like to welcome my Conservative colleague and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101025	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101036	As has already been said, inattentiveness is an essential factor in road accidents, and that is why it is a matter of driving vehicles, as others have also quoted from the Council of Safe Traffic's excellent campaign. This is a crucial factor and has a decisive impact on one third of all accidents, including fatal accidents. Today, if it is a car, it will pay a fine of DKK 1,500, and you will then tighten the penalty by adding a cut in your driving licence. We are certainly in favour of this in the Enhedslisten. In relation to the fine itself, we could easily double it if it were to be, for example. 3,000 kroner. We think this is such a serious problem that the penalty should be tightened up and, as I have said, it should also be supplemented by a cut in the driving licence. But we also note that the National Police are proposing that a fine of DKK 2 000 be imposed, referring to the current rock card system, where this is the penalty that is then applied. And we think that is very sensible now that the National Police are proposing it, and that is why we are going to make the proposal for an amendment that we will be making in connection with the committee procedure. In this connection, we think it is natural to use the 2,000 kroner. as the level of this when it's already there. Then we note that the comments made by the draft law are, as it were, debating whether to impose a general ban on inattentiveness, as we call it, including the hand-free use of telecommunications equipment, and to tamper with the radio or lie around the bottom of the car after the food package or the banana, or whatever it is that has gone on the floor. And we really think it is reasonable that we should be able to introduce it. As I said, drivers must concentrate on driving. So we do not quite accept the explanation in the consultation note as to why this is not a good idea. It is said that it varies from activity to activity, in relation to what is inattentiveness. It is dependent on external circumstances, it is written, such as speed, road conditions and the complexity of traffic. And it is also a psychological phenomenon, and here age, driving experience and personal distraction threshold play in, they say, in order that it should not be a lie. And it can be said that this is true at all when you drive a car. It is true in all circumstances when you are driving a car, and it might as well be an argument for everyone to admit that even hands-free communication is disturbing; it takes some of the attention when you are driving a car. But in other words, the Ministry of Transport comes to the conclusion that it is not possible to lay down precise rules with a non-gender act of inattentiveness. Yes, it is rude, as you can put it, but it has been done! But I simply do not think that is right, because if you introduce a general ban, you are all over that talk, so you could just do it. I think that it is a good discussion that is raised in the comments and I think it is worth taking that discussion along the way, but it does not mean that we are not positive about this proposal; we are very much in favour, but we are going to table an amendment to increase the level of fines from DKK 1 500. for 2,000 kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101435	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lene Foged, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101449	Inattention costs lives. In more than one in three fatal accidents in traffic there is inattentiveness involved. With your head buried on the phone, your computer easily overlooks a giveaway, a red light, or pulls over into the opposite lane. The draft law we are discussing here contains two elements to help create greater safety in traffic and reduce the number of road accidents caused by inattentiveness. First of all, the ban on the use of handheld mobile phones is made technology neutral, so that in future it will cover all handheld telecommunications equipment and other communication devices. In addition, the penalty for infringement of the prohibition is tightened, so that in future, in addition to the fine of DKK 1,500. also will cost a clip in the driver's license to drive around and use handheld devices. For the Liberal Alliance, it is important to ensure safety in traffic and it is important to deal with the many deaths caused by inattentiveness in traffic. In the Liberal Alliance, we hope that this bill will give drivers greater respect for the ban now that we sharpen the consequences of infringement. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101607	We thank the rapporteur and thank him for that excellent speech. We move on to the next rapporteur, Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101619	Thank you. L 42 is a very, very good and necessary bill we are discussing today. This is a change in the traffic law, so we are now receiving a clip in the driving licence at the same time as the 1.500 crown penalty if we use electronic handheld equipment while driving. I have often said that transport is not just from A to B, that is to say mobility, but it is also about solutions to health and climate. Especially in terms of health in relation to our consumption of digital media and equipment, we see that it has had a waste effect in relation to our transport sector in a very, very inappropriate way. And it's all levels of our lives that are affected by this communication that we have today on many, many different platforms and at all times of the day. So this is a very operational proposal in which we take care of road safety, but it is also an indictment of our unhealthy consumption in relation to mobile phones and technology. So it is both the solution to a lot of challenges in our society, and at the same time it may also be the root of a lot of problems. It will be exciting to follow developments, and I certainly think that we should follow up on the legislative proposal and see what effect it will have, and then I think it is worth talking about a differentiation of the penalty. You know, if you drive your Porsche and have an income of $3 million. kr., then 1,500 kr. very, very little compared to being punished for actually being an increased threat in traffic and for other people's lives. So if we could talk together to actually differentiate our penalty in traffic according to our level of income, I think that the preventive effect, which is what we are doing here, will also be much greater. Yes, I think those are the words, but the alternative certainly supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101833	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101843	As the radical transport rapporteur cannot be present today, I have been allowed to make the contribution of the Radicals, and it is quite nice to be back among old crooks. For the first six years I was in the Folketing, I was also a traffic rapporteur. However, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned, inattentiveness is responsible for one third of the fatal accidents that we have in the country, the Council for Safe Transport writes in their response to this bill. This is also confirmed by DTU and by the Garden Commission. And inattentiveness doesn't just have to be the use of mobile phone, gps or anything else, but it probably often is. That is why, of course, the problem has increased in recent years, when the use of mobile phones, computers and gps has also increased. That is why we are also positive about the fact that the government wants to tighten up the penalty with a cut in the driving licence rather than a fine, and that it is not just mobile phones but, for example, mobile phones. also gps that are included. The Radical Left believes that the proposal will increase road safety, which is why we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101945	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026101955	Not all drivers use the inside of their head when driving. That is why we must help reason with tougher sanctions. As a small aside, I would like to say that I have such a side deal as a legal rapporteur, and we often discuss such matters. with the Enhedslisten in this Chamber and did so only yesterday, when it was thought that increased punishment had no significant significance, it was thought that this was not the way to go at all. I can then say that I find it exciting to experience Enhedslisten as hardliner in the field of justice, because I think that there have been many good arguments here that punishment at least works here, contrary to the discussions yesterday afternoon, where punishment did not work. At the risk of themselves and other road users, some drivers talk in handheld phones that are checked text messages and emails, and Facebook is updated. It has to be stopped. Attention must be paid to traffic rather than to yourself. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102049	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102059	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their positive comments on the draft law. We have to drive when we drive a car, focus must be on the road ahead of us and not on, for example, holding a tablet or a mobile phone and text messages, making facebook updates or typing a phone number into the person we want to talk to. It is extremely selfish to look anywhere but on the road when you drive around with a ton of metal at the end of the speeder foot. I am therefore very concerned to do something about the inattentive behaviour of a number of drivers on the road, and I am therefore pleased to hear that the rapporteurs have the same wish. There are many things that can create distraction and lack of attention in traffic, be it eating, reaching for objects, adjusting on the car radio or conversation via a hands-free telephone installation or with a passenger. All these things, to a greater or lesser extent, distract attention from driving. However, the extent to which risks are increased by such and similar actions depends on a number of factors which are quite specific, such as speed, traffic complexity, driver experience and individual distraction threshold. It is therefore difficult to establish firm prohibition rules for such cases where the specific situation is not taken into account at the same time. I therefore think that the general rule of inattentiveness that we have today in section 3 of the Road Traffic Code is a sensible way of dealing with it. This takes account of the specific situation. However, there are certain acts of inattentiveness which stand out. Research and research into inattentiveness and distraction in traffic shows that the use of handheld telecommunications equipment is one of the most important factors that increases the risk of accidents. I therefore believe that it makes sense that it is precisely in this area that we are putting in handheld telecommunications equipment. The aim of the bill is therefore to change the rules of disqualification so that in future it will cost a clip in the driver's licence to use handheld telecommunications equipment while driving. I am sure that there is much more respect for the consequences for your driving rights and, therefore, the risk of losing your driving licence in the short term than you have for a fine of a certain size. This is also why the draft law does not provide for an increase in the fine for using handheld telecommunications equipment. The fine of DKK 1,500 for drivers and 1,000 kroner. for cyclists has already been increased in relation to the minimum fines imposed by the Road Traffic Code, and I believe, as I said, that it will not have an effect in this area to increase the fine. On the other hand, it will have an effect if you suddenly risk losing your driving licence. At the same time, there is no point in our legislation basing itself on the technological offers that existed in 1997 when the ban on the use of handheld mobile phones was introduced while driving. The ban currently applies only to mobile phones and not, for example, tablets, GPS and laptops. I therefore believe that we must extend the ban to ensure that all handheld telecommunications equipment used for communication is covered by the ban. I think this is fair and necessary in the light of technological developments. Finally, I also have the hope that the legislative proposal and the information campaign that will come in connection with the entry into force of the proposed rules will help to increase the focus on the fact that we need to drive a car. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102454	There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102458	First of all, thank you to the Minister for his statement here, and also thank you for the bill, which we support from the Social Democrats. I think there are a number of citizens who are listening to us today thinking: what are the rules like when you ride a bicycle and talk on a mobile phone? Then you can get a fine today, but should you be able to get a clip on your car if you are taken by bicycle? I think there is a great interest in clarifying that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102529	No, you don't. You don't get a clip in your driving licence if you're taken with a handheld electronic device on your bike. You have to settle for the $1,000 fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102543	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102544	Thank you very much for that answer. I think there are many who are happy to put it in place. I also think that some might experience it as a little overkill if it was the case that you should also be able to get clips in your driver's license to cycle and talk on the phone. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102600	Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102603	I would just like to hear how the Minister of Transport is prepared for the proposal that the existing fine be increased by DKK 1 500. to 2,000 kroner, as suggested by the National Police, to get a uniformity over the whole regime around the clip in the driver's license.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102626	As I said in the speech, the level of fines today is already above the minimum level of penalties imposed by the Road Traffic Code, and I am therefore satisfied with the level of fines that exists today, and I do not think it will have the great effect of increasing the level of fines in this area. What I think has the great effect is if among drivers there is the attention that if you do this, i.e. using an iPad or a handheld phone while driving, then you risk a clip in the driver's license. As everyone knows, you lose your driver's license at three clips. So I think that has a great effect, and I think it only has a very small effect, that you increase the fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102710	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102712	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for further clarification. It is also about the amount of the fine. In fact, I very much agree with the Minister that the most preventive will surely be the imminent danger of losing a driving licence. But now I was in the unfortunate situation that I changed the artist on my mobile phone on my bike at the lakes here in Copenhagen and got a fine of DKK 1,000. By the police. I have to admit that it was a year's consumption of the streaming service that I had bought, and that I thought that it was quite a lot just to change the artist while I kept quiet on my bike, and I came back down the phone when I biked on. But if it had now been 2,000 kr, I would have been even more sorry about it, and then I might have thought that I could change artist via SIRI and the verbal command function on my Bluetoothheadset. So I'm thinking, doesn't the Minister have such a reflection on how much it takes before the Minister himself would think that okay, financially, it would also be a bad idea to continue my use of mobile phone in the car?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102823	Thank you. Even if you are sorry to have been fined, you must not swear in the Assembly hall, but there can be extenuating circumstances! The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102830	I'm glad that the police are so active in relation to Mr. Knox. Roger Courage Matthisen's use of mobile phone by bicycle. There certainly needed to be a rebuke there, but on the other hand I can easily understand the fact that, if you hold still, it is hard to understand why you cannot use a mobile phone. But the question was actually: is it true that it does not mean much whether the fines are higher? Of course it matters that the fines are higher. But it just means so much more that you get a clip in your driver's license if you do this, and it's not really about riding a bike. It's about driving a motor vehicle. This means all the more that you get a cut in your driving licence, that the effect of increasing the amount of the fine is marginal, and I also think it may seem unjustified if we are already above the level of the minimum amount of the fine. Is it really among the biggest offenses in society if you do this, or is it after all a middle crime? I think it seems to me to be a middle-of-the-art offense. But the cut is justified because it is actually dangerous for the environment if you are not concentrated when driving.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102950	Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026102951	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I am glad that the Minister says that the amount of the fine means something. Then I'm thinking that maybe we could make an experimental scheme like this, where we raise the fine to 2,000 kroner, to 3,000 kroner, to 4,000 kroner. for a while and then see the effect of it. It could also be a way to challenge the position as to whether it has an effect or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103023	If it was so easy that in all cases where people are doing something bad for society and where there is a fine, the penalty has to be lifted, and then we get less of it, and that is why we should do it, then we can quickly be fined 10,000 kr., 20,000 kr. and 30,000 kroner. in this community. Why is it actually enough with 3,000 kroner?? Would 5,000 kroner. So don't be even better? And how about 10,000 kroner?? I guess that would be better than $5,000.? We have a level of fines in Denmark which is set according to how bad the infringement is, and here we are dealing with a level that is above the minimum but not the maximum.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103101	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103115	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103135	The bill here is an extension of the political agreement that the government has concluded with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on the S-train of the future, and in this respect it has also been agreed to reorganise the way that is being run on the coastal track in North Zealand, so that you no longer have to cross the Øresund Bridge but drive further on Zealand. This then means that the handling of Øresund traffic must be handed over to the Swedes, and it makes a great deal of sense in terms of driving, so that is something that we Social Democrats can support and support. We understand that the Danish Railway Federation is concerned because they fear that you will lose good Danish jobs about this. So this is something that we are concerned about from the socialist side, and we will ask about it in this legislative process and try to hear what we can do to ensure that there are good Danish jobs forward-looking and that we do not hand it all over to the Swedes. It makes sense, when we want to strengthen Danish public transport, that it is also Danes who serve the task. So that's something we're interested in. But there is no doubt that it is purely road map technical, and it was also something that was worked on when we were in government. So we understand it and, on the basis of that, we are positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103302	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. And at the last moment, a brief comment has been made by Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103309	That is because I am a little confused about the rapporteur's speech. It's very good to be aware of good Danish jobs, but at the same time you think that this kind of driving technology is really good. Is the Social Democrats not aware that this is a call for tenders and that it is one, what should you say, the sale, or what to call it, of DSB's traffic, and that it is thus in line with the strategy that has been put forward to minimize DSB as a state railway company? When I ask about this, is it, of course, because there have been various reports from the Socialists in the last year's time that you are in favour of invitations to tender, or are you not in favour of invitations to tender? I can refer again and again to the announcement by Henrik Sass Larsen, who said that it should be stopped and that it is a mistake to continue with that strategy. But this is part of that strategy, the way we see it. That is why I would like to know whether this is not something that we are aware of or have discussed in the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103414	I am very pleased with the question, and this is indeed something that we are very aware of from the Socialist side. It is true that we have sent the signal that we think we should keep up with all the tenders and that it is important that we have a social control over our public transport and that we have a strong DSB in the future too. That is also why we were not in the agreement that was made on the S-train of the future, because we were just worried about it. Now there is a majority in Christiansborg, even a fairly broad majority who wants it here, and there may be a slight difference in how to work. Because it is a well-known fact that Enhedslisten says that we cannot be there at all, and then we are completely outside. And there may be a slightly different approach on the part of the Socialist side. Because if there are elements in a proposal that can be positive and that can ensure that passengers can get better driving, that you can have more time, fewer delays, more stable train driving, etc., then we can go in and work positively with it. However, as I have just said, the starting point is that we are positive, but we have not taken a final position and we are going to ask some clarification in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103528	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103529	I am glad that no final position has been taken. In the Enhedslisten we are concerned with the very good Danish jobs, which the rapporteur also mentioned. But where does Mr. Rasmus Prehn in the bill that this will lead to better timetables or that it will be better for purely driving? It's not like it's just a vision that the coast track has to be connected to Zealand traffic, and that it's gonna be okay, except that it's going to be a bit out of the way in the future. But what about the entire capacity of the coast track and the Kastrup track, i.e. the Øresund traffic? You don't hear a word about that in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103607	Well, sir. Henning Hyllested is right that it is not something that is described in detail in the bill, but it is a process that has been over several years in the Ministry of Transport. It is the case that when we were in the Transport Minister's post, it was also one of the visions that was discussed. And at several rapporteur meetings we have had a look at how this purely road map would be an advantage. And there I think it would be a little unsporty if it were to be the case that, when we have been sitting in the Ministry of Transport for several years and thought that there could be some road map technically right in this, as soon as we are in opposition, we slam the door and yell out obscene words out of the dome. I don't think that's the way to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103649	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103650	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn for a good rapporteur's speech and for the support for the bill, which we in the Left also think is sensible. It is well documented that a large number of the delays on the coast track are precisely due to traffic over on the Swedish side, and that is the decoupling that benefits passengers here on the Danish side. But I note that there is a concern here about the loss of Danish jobs, both at the Social Democratic Party, but in particular at the Enhedslisten. I'm just gonna ask you quietly, if not, sir. Rasmus Prehn can confirm that this division of traffic on the Danish and Swedish side was de facto adopted under the previous government in connection with the conclusion of a 10-year contract with DSB. By the way, it was a contract that was made with a purely red majority, i.e. including the Enhedslisten. So it is a little strange to hear this concern now, because if it is sustainable, someone must have slept per hour at the time when the blues were not on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103751	That is absolutely right. We were very sorry that the blue parties would not take responsibility for a DSB contract. It is of course very crucial that there is broad support for this. There we thought that there was an equal amount of opposition policy in the field there. And it is true that, in this connection too, the division of responsibilities between the Danish and Swedish sides was decided, that is quite correct. It is not the same as the fact that concrete action here is something we cannot have any concerns about and can ask some questions about. That's what we're doing. But I also think that in my reply to Mr. Henning Hyllested acknowledged inheritance and debt in relation to some of the past acts. That is why we are not just standing up for a beer box and yelling critically, but taking responsibility for the fact that we have been involved in some agreements in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103836	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103838	Thank you, sir. President. Thank you for that answer. I can therefore conclude that there is a good deal of hypocrisy on the part of the Enhedslisten when you blame the Social Democrats and the rest of us for not worrying about this. And one comment: when the blues were not included in that agreement, it was because there were a lot of things we were worried about, and unfortunately we have to note that most of those concerns have become reality. There are certain problems with railway operations that we must resolve together. I fully agree that we need broad political agreements on this, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103911	Now, in general terms, we in this good group of rapporteurs should refrain from calling each other hypocrites. I think we have good cooperation across rapporteurs, across parties, among transport rapporteurs. I think so, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen refers to the fact that Enhedslisten was part of the DSB contract. It's more if there's someone who doesn't really understand how this can be connected. I would like to say that the Enhedslisten is in its right to raise a warning flag when there is a situation where there are Danish jobs at risk. That is what we are trying to do from the point of view of social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103946	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026103953	Thank you. Bill No. L 44, which we are dealing with now, is essentially about improving traffic across the Sound, so that there is better punctuality and service on the train between southern Sweden and Copenhagen. In short, it is a transfer of the State's practical traffic buyer responsibility for the Øresund train traffic to Scania traffic and by achieving organisational simplification. In the past, operations have been separate in a Danish and a Swedish part, which was both complex and difficult. That is why this bill will now change it and pool responsibility in one place, so that Skånetrafikken will in future be responsible for all transport from Østerport to Øresund and to southern Sweden. As the proposal now stands, trains are required to run four times an hour, i.e. four times an hour. every 15 minutes, in the daytime and every 10 minutes or six times an hour during rush hour. We are actually happy with any improvement in the service for the many who drive across the Sound every day. It must be easy and simple to travel by train, also across the Sound. However, there are also a lot of people who drive on the coastal train when they are going to and from work, both inside Copenhagen and out at Kastrup Airport. It is very important for us in the Danish People's Party that with this change we do not end up reducing the service for the thousands of people who drive on these routes every day. It is therefore important for us that there is always correspondence between the coastal Banetogenes and the Øresund train, so no one will have to wait for shifts at Østerport, Nørreport or Central Station. DF would like to support the proposal if we were assured that there is correspondence between the coastal Banetogenes and the Øresund train, and that we therefore do not impair the conditions of all those who use the Coastal Railway daily to get to and from work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104157	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104212	Thank you. My good colleagues from the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have already explained the content of the bill, where the main point is that we make this separation of traffic on the Danish side there is the Coastal Railway, and then there is from Østerport and further across Øresund and up in Sweden. We see this as an advantage, especially for passengers on the coast coast, who have been plagued by many delays and irregularities. This is what we are convinced will increase the timeliness. And that's what we need. Train on time is absolutely crucial. If we want the confidence of passengers and want more people to take the train, then it is crucial that the promise of the road map is also respected. And we see that as a great advantage in this bill. Another advantage is that there will be a simplification of responsibility in relation to traffic purchases, a clear responsibility now. And we see that as an advantage too. But it is still the case that we have the timber if the Swedes are going to do something weird from Øresund into Østerport. So our minister still has his hands on timber and can intervene, but I am confident that our Swedish friends will do nothing. Moreover, we can also expect a reduction in the cost of running trains. That's not a bad thing either. For one of the major problems for Danish rail operations is that it is incredibly expensive, and that makes the fares are high in Denmark, even though we grant huge subsidies from the Treasury to train operations every year. So it is not so bad even if there is a cheapening. We must also be honest that there is a disadvantage to this. Let us be honest about it; no one has mentioned it yet. Because this means that in the future you can't come with the Coast Railway and then drive directly to Copenhagen Airport. Some will be sorry. And we might as well be honest about that. It's the back of the medal. And that is why we in the Left also attach importance to the fact that there will be an optimal correspondence at Østerport for those who, for example, are going to have to do so. Elsinore to Copenhagen Airport so you don't have to wait a long time, and so you can easily walk over to the other side of the platform. It's important for this. But let's be honest about this being a disadvantage. But overall, it is a good legislative proposal where the benefits clearly exceed the disadvantages, and therefore the Left can support the bill. I would also like to welcome my Conservative colleague and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104443	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104446	This concerns the rapporteur's remarks that the advantages clearly outweigh the disadvantages. Yes, that may be good, but I just can't see it anywhere; I don't know the analyses that say there are great benefits to this. There are a whole lot of negative things that I could highlight, but if they are outweighed by benefits, I don't know. Then there's that thing, like Mr. Simpson. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen mentioned in his question to Mr. Rasmus Prehn, about Enhedslisten's alleged hypocrisy. So, if you go in and look at the contract... now I have this one... under.. 2.7 Collaboration with Skånetrafikken etc... you can see that it doesn't say that it necessarily has to pass to the Swedes. It might as well be DSB that continued that traffic, whether or not you connect the coast track on Zealand traffic. Strictly speaking, it has nothing to do with each other; it can just be a prerequisite one has had. It is certainly the political agreement that has been reached now, but it is because, as I say, it is politically aimed at minimising DSB and getting rid of its state railway company; so you take that bite by bit. We saw it in connection with the slanted track we saw in connection with Svendborgbanen, we are now experiencing it in connection with Skånetrafikken, and there is an agreement that S-train traffic should also be offered.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104559	Well, first of all, the delays that have been caused by problems on the Swedish side are well documented. At one point, there was something about elk and other things. So there is evidence of that. That was something the previous government worked a lot on, and that is what you take care of. Secondly, with regard to the agreement on DSB's contract for ten years, it may well be that there is that in the political text, but when you dig into it, you will see that it was de facto there that you made the decision on it. And then I'll only regret it if Enhedslisten has been deceived, but it was there that things were decided. I should also like to express my regret that I used the word hypocritically. It may be quite harsh, so let us say double standards; it may be better.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104648	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104649	I don't think that matters. But I would like to say to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, that I'm not shredded because you use a word as hypocritical. If that's what it takes, then that's what it takes, and you're perfectly entitled to believe that we are. I am just still referring to the fact that there is no sound in the contract that Øresund traffic, by separation, must necessarily be transferred to Scania traffic. It says that it must be separated and that it is done in order to connect the coast of the Zealand traffic. We certainly think this idea can be very good, but it can come when Zealand's regional traffic is ready for it, and it is quite simply not yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104731	I just want to make it clear that I do not know any parties here in the Danish Parliament who have stated that the objective is now to minimize and reduce DSB at all costs. On the other hand, I know many people, including the Left, who would like to have efficient rail operations and regular rail operations. That is the aim we are pursuing and guiding. There is no objective that DSB should be cut down to the sock holders at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104758	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026104813	Thank you. This is a very violent transformation of rail traffic which is to take place in the metropolitan area and there are a great many consequences which we believe have not been reflected in the consequences around Copenhagen Airport, around Zealand's regional traffic, around DSB's operation and economy in general, but, of course, especially in relation to the metropolitan traffic. I would like to draw attention to the consultation answer from DI Transport, which clearly calls for a thorough analysis of what this has to do with passenger flows, accessibility, user-attractive activity, as they call it, so that a final decision on the future Danish traffic system can be made. We would have liked to see an analysis of this before embarking on such dramatic changes in traffic as we are talking about here. As you know, Copenhagen Airport is a hub, and there is a clear concern from DI Transport and others, not least Copenhagen Airport itself, about what it will be important to change trains at Østerport, Nørreport, Vesterport or Copenhagen Central Station to get from the coastal railway, i.e. from Nordsjælland, to the airport. There, we would have liked to hear a little bit about how many passengers from the Coastal Railway have business to do on the Copenhagen-Airport route, how many passengers today switch from the Coastal Railway to Zealand's regional traffic, for example. And will the conversion lead to fewer passengers from the coastal railway to Copenhagen Central Station, or what one imagines, and thus perhaps lead to more cars that have business to do at the airport? And is the airport so dimensioned to it, or can they overcome it if that is what is happening? One might also ask oneself: will the frequency on the coast track, i.e. Helsingør, Østerport, Copenhagen H, be maintained? It is clear that Østerport-København H will be a critical route if there is to be both Skånetransport train and you also have to maintain the frequency on the other coast lane. For example, will there be an increase in the number of young people in the Community? be carried on trains directly between Helsingør and Copenhagen Airport until the Zealand rail network is ready to be connected to the coastal track? And here, of course, I am talking first of all about the lack of electrification, but there are also things like platform length and platform height on Sjælland that need to be looked at. How many trains from the coastal railway to Sjælland are you really expected to complete, both now and then? As I said, there is no analysis of this. The connection between the coast track and the Zealand regional traffic is like just a vision, and it can be excellent. We see that the transfer of Øresund traffic to Scania traffic is first and foremost another supply of DSB's routes. But what does it get, and DSB asks, even if in their hearing answer it is important for DSB's economy? What part of DSB's turnover is this really about? What, then, does the loss of revenue have to do with it? It is a well-known fact that the coastal track, the Øresund traffic, the other traffic around Copenhagen Central Station is planned as a whole, and now you get a new operator on the track, and then flexibility and economies of scale, co-operation benefits are actually lost, and that leads to everything else equal to increased costs. What does this have to do with DSB? What does this have to do with DSB staff, who are currently serving Øresund traffic? This applies to loco- and train drivers, for example, in the case of platform assistants. Who will assist with help for disabled people who are going on board? This applies not least to the maintenance, which is taking place primarily at Helgoland today. How many people are losing their jobs in the workshop at Helgoland? I do not see in the contract that the maintenance of the Danish train sets made on e.g. DSB workshops. You could have written that into the contract. And why actually transfer to the Swedish transport company or the Swedish operator? It might as well have been DSB, one had set to run in a unified system. How many Danish and Swedish passengers are there at Øresund, i.e. between Copenhagen Central Station and Copenhagen Airport? Enhedslisten finds the transfer prematurely. We can easily see the potential of connecting the coastal railway with the Zealand regional traffic, but Sjælland is not ready until 2023 at least with the electrification to Holbæk and probably only later to Kalundborg. And an interconnection of the coastal railway and Zealand does not mean that you have to decouple the coastal railway from the Kastrup railway and the Øresund respectively. So we believe that the motive is first and foremost to continue the supply strategy and minimise DSB as a state railway company.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026105339	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we proceed in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lene Foged, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026105352	The bill is a follow-up to the agreement on future train traffic in the metropolitan area concluded in December last year between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. The bill is about allowing the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing to transfer the State's practical traffic buyer responsibility for Øresund traffic on the route between Østerport Station and the border with Sweden to the Swedish traffic buyer Scania traffic. It makes very good sense that the practical traffic buyer responsibility for Øresund traffic between Copenhagen and Malmø is simplified and left to the Swedish traffic buyer Scania traffic so that there is only one traffic buyer and one operator in Øresund traffic. With the proposal, a larger proportion of Danish rail traffic will be competitive as part of the Scania traffic supply. In the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the fact that it will provide better, simpler and more efficient operation of Øresund traffic for the benefit of all of us. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026105504	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026105516	Thank you. We are dealing with L 44, which has been well examined by the previous rapporteurs, and many good questions were asked by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. As a starting point, this should ensure a better timeliness on the coast track... at least that's the intention. As a starting point, it must ensure that one operator can make it more efficient and provide economies of scale at least that is the intention. We support that intention. However, there are a number of concerns both from DI Transport, DSB, Copenhagen Airports, Passenger Pulse and Arriva. Many of them have already been addressed by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and I think these are some of them that we should be aware of here in the future. After all, the alternative is not part of the agreement on the S-trains of the future, nor do we support the idea that tendering is what DSB should primarily be exposed to. However, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, we need to look at the elements of this bill. And this element, the intentions at least, is something we can support. But, of course, we need to be aware of the concerns and challenges that exist. So we have to get answers to the questions that are being asked and then we look at it. But as a starting point, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026105656	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026105711	As Mr Radicale's rapporteur cannot be present, I should like to make the following points on behalf of him: the Radical Left believes that this law will help to give passengers a better train service on the coast track, as well as between Copenhagen and Sweden, particularly Malmø. The coastal railway is today Denmark's most used train line. Thousands of people choose every day it took to get to and from work, school and much more. However, we all know that the coastal railway, including those of us who have been elected in North Zealand, has great challenges in getting on time, I can say with an understatement. There are several reasons for this. One of them is that the coastal Banetogens from Elsinore and the rest of North Zealand are going to Sweden. It is not optimal to mix regional traffic with regional traffic and with heavy freight traffic and, moreover, with passenger traffic within Sweden run by a completely different company. With the proposal here, the coastal railway is no longer going to Sweden, but has to drive somewhere else to Zealand. In our view, this will improve the punctuality of the coastline, even if it does not solve everything. Similarly, passenger traffic between Copenhagen and Sweden is also characterised by complexity in which DSB has run something, while the Swedish company has run something else. With the proposal, everything is being run by the Swedes, which should make planning easier and less complicated. In view of the spectacles of Radicals, this is a sensible organizational change in train driving on some very used lines, which will provide better public transport for the benefit of the capital, the environment and the climate and, above all, the citizens. I can also agree with the rapporteur from the Left, who says: for us, it will also be absolutely crucial that the passengers who can take the coast lane to the airport today, hopefully in future, will just have to cross the platform at Østerport and move on and, on the other hand, be more sure that the train is actually running on time. In any case, we Radicals want to place great emphasis on this, not least those of us who know this track and who want to accommodate the commuters from North Zealand. In other words, the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026105914	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026105916	It was precisely to the comment about the fact that it is important for the Radical Left that you can make this shift, which you are now being forced to do, when you cannot drive directly to the airport. You could also say that that is a pious wish. It is not anywhere that it will be done in this way. Of course you can hope for that, and that would be natural, but now there are two operators who need to work together on it. Today, after all, it is an integrated cooperation that we have. So it seems a little weird. That's one thing. The second point I would like to make is that the Radical Left helped to conclude this DSB contract, in which, as I also mentioned, it was pre-established that the coast line should be connected with the Zealand regional traffic. It's the Zealand regional traffic at all, not at all geared to yet. Now the Radical Left is part of the agreement that makes it this way. But isn't it a bit bad to have an agreement with some other political parties on the DSB contract, where you say one thing, but then you choose, if I may say so, your own version of what is going to happen with some other parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110033	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110034	As far as the first question is concerned, I would assume that both companies that will operate in the future have a mutual interest in ensuring a smooth transition for the passengers to the airport simply because it will generate more passengers. Now it is also a fairly high frequency of trains, and if they even start to go on time at the intervals they have to, then it will already be a huge improvement for commuters in North Zealand. And it is also true that there may be new routes to Sjælland instead, so you don't have to change where you have to change today. But how will we ensure that? We will, because we are part of the conciliation circle and will therefore have the opportunity to follow this work on a regular basis, and that is what we say we want to be able to do. To be honest, I am not sure I can respond satisfactorily to that part of the question, because I am simply not fully aware of the various conciliation circles here, since I am not the rapporteur on them. However, we usually respect the conciliation circles of which we are a part and will try to promote the aims of the two different conciliation groups. But sometimes these conciliations are also so difficult when they intervene or intervene in each other, and if there is no coincidence between the parties, it can be difficult, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110144	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110145	I can reassure you, sir. Martin Lidegaard says that no settlement or anything that we had about the DSB contract has been broken. One has just chosen one's own version of the coinage of it, let's call the vision that lies in the DSB contract on the Coastal Railway versus regional traffic on Zealand etc. I think we could have discussed this with the parties that had the second agreement that this should happen. However, I do not think there has been any breach of a settlement. The second thing I wanted to say was, in fact, just about having to change and so on. The problem is that there is no analysis of the whole pattern of traffic, either now or after these changes have to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110227	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110227-2	I am pleased that the rapporteur does not believe that we have broken any conciliation and I shall take the fallen remarks to our rapporteur about it. I am absolutely convinced that what has been driving for us as a party and for our rapporteur has, of course, been trying to do something about the operation of the coastline, which is as unsatisfactory as it is and which bothers thousands of commuters every day. It is the case that if we have to do something, we will have to do something different than we are doing today, and that, of course, involves new risks. However, it is clearly our view that this is not something that will improve overall operation. Otherwise, it will not make sense for us to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110301	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110307	We hear so often about delays on the coast track that these are the aftereffects of problems in Sweden. Therefore, there can be very good reasons to look at a new organisation of railway operations across the Sound. The traffic on Zealand and over the Sound needs a boost and a greater reliability that the commuters can count on. We need more people to make use of public transport, and one of the important prerequisites is that passengers should be able to expect to be able to plan according to a road map, which, of course, also keeps what they promise. SF isn't part of this conciliation circle, but we're looking at the bill positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110352	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110402	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. On 13 December 2017, the Government, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party entered into an agreement on the future of train traffic in the metropolitan area. The agreement included, among other things: decided to transfer the State's practical traffic buyer responsibility for the Øresund train traffic on the line between Østerport Station and the border with Sweden on the Øresund link to the Swedish traffic buyer, Skånetrafikken, so that there is only a traffic buyer and an operator in the Øresund traffic. The purpose of the draft law is to provide the material legal basis for it. Since the Øresund Bridge was put into service, the train traffic between Denmark and Sweden, which is provided as a public service, has been carried out as passing traffic between the coast railway in Denmark and various stations in southern Sweden. Organisational operations have been separate in a Danish and Swedish part, which has given a complex organisation of traffic. Train traffic on the Danish side is managed by DSB under the negotiated contract between the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing and DSB. Between the border and the stations in Sweden, train traffic is carried out by a Swedish operator, Transdev, who runs on a gross contract with Skånetrafikken. In practice DSB and the Swedish operator cooperate to alternate trains between Copenhagen and Malmø. The model is complex and prevents a quick and simple decision-making process for the organisation of Øresund train traffic. On 24 August 2018, the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing and Skånetrafikken entered into an agreement on train traffic between Copenhagen and Malmø. The agreement sets out the framework for the transfer of the State's practical traffic buyer responsibility for the Øresund train traffic to Scania traffic. The agreement is annexed to the bill and contains a reservation for the adoption by the Folketing of the legislation necessary to implement the agreement. It follows from the agreement that the Øresund train traffic must be carried out on the basis of a minimum level of passenger service agreed between the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing and Skåne traffic. The operation on the Danish part drawing must be based on Danish minimum requirements for operation. The agreement contains a number of conditions which aim to ensure that all Danish requirements are met and that failure to comply with Danish wishes could lead to sanctions or to repeal. Skånetrafikken currently has an invitation to tender for the Swedish part of the Øresund train traffic between the Øresund border and the various end stations in southern Sweden. The offer includes an option to expand compared to the Danish part of the Øresund train traffic on the route between Østerport Station and the border with Sweden on the Øresund link. If the Danish Parliament adopts this bill and the option is used, it will mean that an increase in the share of Danish rail traffic will be competitive as part of Skånetrafikken's offer. When Øresund train traffic is brought together under an operator, it will simplify and improve the possibilities for developing traffic for the benefit of passengers. Since most passengers are Swedish, it is natural to gather responsibility for the practical operation during Swedish administration, but with Danish insight and overall control for the Danish part of the traffic. The physical separation of the current Øresund train traffic in a coastal section linked to the Zealand regional traffic and continuing Øresund traffic between Østerport and Sweden is carried out with the aim of improving punctuality and enabling this organisational simplification to be implemented. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise in this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110809	We'll just take one of these with Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110812	It may be that the Minister can answer me as to why the contract between Skånetransporten and the Ministry of Transport, which I have read, did not state that the Danish train sets which are made available to Skånetrafikken have been made available free of charge, but all right must be served by Danish drivers and train drivers, and what else is by staff on such trains. Why has it not been required that maintenance of the Danish train sets should continue to take place at DSB's workshops? At any rate, it could have been ensured that it was still Danish labour force and that there was no labour force and thus also competence, knowledge and know-how lost for DSB and for Danish railway operations at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110906	I am quite sure that it is because it would be contrary to the law. There are, of course, EU rules on how to make tenders, including for example. tender on the railway. And in this kind of procurement, we must not call for the supply to result in people of a particular nationality doing the work that we are offering. It would probably also be a form of racism, but when it comes to tendering, it is obviously something that Enhedslisten is in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110940	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026110941	Ahr, please, Minister of Transport! Let us now have a factual discussion about what is a transfer, shall we not? We might as well say that this is a transfer of businesses, so that agreements and the whole of the duvet are included. Well, you might as well say that. I think it is important to try to strike a blow to ensure that Danish labour continues to do the work, on the one hand, driving the trains and, on the other, maintaining them. I would also like to ask: does the Minister of Transport not share the concerns of DSB regarding the entire traffic around Copenhagen Central Station? The coastal railway, the Øresund traffic is just part of it, but there is much other traffic around Copenhagen Central Station, and there is a great deal of concern that the flexibility and co-operation and seeing traffic as a whole is lost by suddenly picking out a lot and passing it to another operator.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111030	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111031	I got it, sir. Henning Hyllested's question is that, for the trains made available for the future supply of service, the invitation to tender in which they are to participate should require that they be run by Danish staff. And there is the answer: in invitations to tender, we must not demand that those who work for the companies that win the invitation to tender should have a particular nationality. It is also a racism, I think, as the Enhedslisten is usually opposed to having. I do not share the concern expressed, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111106	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111118	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111134	Now, earlier this morning, we had a proposal that driving licences should be cut if you talk on a mobile phone in your car, and now we have a proposal that we should have a better Internet connection on the trains. It is, of course, a very good reminder that if you take the train, you have much better opportunities to phone, partly on the Internet, because the Internet that has been absent in some places on the train lines is being dealt with now with this bill. That's a good thing. It's actually a little strange that this bill has taken so long, but the agreement to improve the Internet in Danish trains dates back to 14 January 2014, when the railway federations decided to set more than 100 million. kr. to ensure better internet on the trains. Customers expect, and passengers expect, that when they are on a train journey, they can sit and work at the same time. One of the things that makes a train journey seem more attractive than maybe taking the car is that, unlike driving the car, you can sit and get the answer to emails and can work with what you need to do, so you get well prepared for a meeting or can work the last hours on the way home. There are, in fact, more people today who get written into the contract with their work that the time they spend on the train is part of their working time because they can sit with the Internet on the train and do their job. So it has been problematic that there have been too many places, among others. in North Jutland where you have not been able to get on the Internet properly. It is a good thing that back in 2014 with the railway fund conciliation parties, money was set aside, and it is positive that this bill gives a legal basis for going out and expropriating the areas where the master is to be set up and doing some preliminary studies. So with this bill, we'll have better access to finally set up the masters needed to get better Internet connection on our train. We in the Social Democratic Party are in favour of this. We think it's great that something is finally being done about this, it's about time, and we also welcome the fact that in connection with this there will be some good electrician jobs, by someone going out and putting this up. It is good policy that we also use society as a lever for it. So we look forward to better internet on the train. It's about time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111404	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111411	Thank you. The last many times I have been to Jutland and have taken the car, there have always been problems across Funen, and you have kept in long queues because there has been some accident. I have then taken the train sometimes, and there it has just run smoothly • Aarhus-Copenhagen, 3 hours, no problem. It is so good that there are newspapers on the train, so you have something to read and you can look at your own phone, but the Internet is not working optimally yet. That's what we need to do about this bill. We need to be able to get on the Internet perfectly when we drive from A to B in Denmark. To avoid outages in the connection, as many experience today, when they take the train from e.g. Copenhagen to Aalborg, it is important that you have antenna masts standing along Banedanmark's rails. Since Banedanmark only owns 37 percent. of the areas you need, it is necessary to buy or expropose the necessary land so that we can have the masters set up to cover Denmark's grid 100 percent. This bill will therefore allow the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing to acquire, by expropriation, the land and rights necessary for the installation of the masts and related technical installations and access routes. The areas must lie directly up and close to the railway, they will have a size of approx. 10 x 10 m and access to these areas shall be possible at all times via access routes. At the same time, the bill allows access to these areas at any time during the start-up phase in order to carry out the necessary feasibility studies in connection with the construction and installation of masters and related technical installations. So to follow developments in society and facilitate daily life and communication when we drive trains, DF will of course support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111630	Black holes don't work. This is the case when we are talking about mobile telephony, where, unfortunately, some people around the country are still experiencing black holes. You often experience this when you get in your car and legally speak in your mobile phone, i.e. it is sometimes that correspondence falls out. So we are fortunately in the process of dealing with this challenge, so that we get full coverage in Denmark. But that also applies to the Internet; black holes do not work. This is generally the case in the country where everyone needs broadband networks today. But this is also particularly true on the trains. For as Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned one of the places where the train really has an advantage over the car, that you can sit on the train comfortably, calmly and work with your computer and get some work done while making your journey, whereas hopefully it doesn't happen while driving, sitting and working with your things. So there's a huge advantage to the train. But that presupposes that we have some secure internet in all the trains, if it is like a plus that we really have to be able to sell to passengers. We do not have that today, and the DSB is in the process of getting this right. But we need a few more masters around here so that communication can get to the top so that there are no black holes. And that's why, with this bill, we are giving the Minister and Banedanmark the power to carry out expropriation and feasibility studies. And this suggests that there are not so many places that are needed. In the vast majority of places good voluntary agreements have been made. But there are some places where an expropriation is needed, expected in the order of twenty pilot owners at national level. And that happens on the basis of the Constitution; it is a matter of public welfare and expropriation. And in that case, of course, fair compensation must be granted to these pilots. So with the overindulgent goal that we will have secure internet in our train as a big plus for our railroad, we think this is a good and necessary legislative proposal, which means that we can now achieve safe internet in the foreseeable future. The Left supports the bill and I should like to welcome my Conservative colleague and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111858	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enheslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026111909	Of course, we are also extremely positive about this bill. That is really, what to say, part of the investment in one of the great advantages of the train rather than the car, namely that you can sit and relax and read books or newspapers and can also work through your computer, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned. So that's why it's good. It seems Banedanmark lacks the authority to raise masters and technical installations to make this work. And we fully agree that they should of course have that. I would like to say a little the same thing: what is to be called dissatisfaction with the fact that it has been so long? This has been decided all the way back when we decided on the Togfonden DK, and it was one of the projects which, I believe, was also generally understood and positive about in addition to the conciliation circle. So why it has had to take 4 years, yes, now more than 4 years actually, before it gets there, I think it is quite incomprehensible. This would suggest that Banedanmark ~ and perhaps also DSB, what do I know ~ haven't really worked so seriously with it until recently. And then you've gotten into this problem with that there are a number of places you can't get to travel these masters. In our opinion, this has meant that we are facing a delay in the project. But that should not change the fact that we are now in the process, and now it is, and it is really, really, really good, and we are positive about that. One of the derived effects which I think I would also like to note and which has also been clearly pointed out in the comments to the draft law is that there are in fact a number of sparsely populated areas where there may be problems with mobile coverage or internet coverage today and that those areas can actually benefit from the fact that these masters are being raised. I am not aware of the scale at all, but since the state rail network is branching out into the whole country and also through sparsely populated areas, one could well imagine that in some of the areas where relations are problematic, it can benefit. I think that's really, really good. That's the plus you get here. So I would like to ask: why can Banedanmark not do the work of describing the plant himself in a retail project? It is also left to a consulting agency, and why so? So, there has been a lot of criticism that Banedanmark spends a lot of consultants and spends a lot of billions of dollars on consultancy. But is it because Banedanmark really no longer has the skills and resources for such a task? Has the shaving of Banedanmark really made it this far, if I may say so, that competences are beginning to be lacking? I think this is a relatively simple task... at least it seems to me that I cannot understand that Banedanmark needs to get outside expertise. Perhaps you should, of course, work with or talk to some telecommunications companies to run this mobile network or the Internet. Anyway, I can't believe you're actually about to hire expensive consulting agencies to set this up. But that should not change the fact that we are extremely positive about this and welcome the fact that it is finally coming. I should like to say that I am one of those who almost exclusively use the train, and I have great pleasure in being able to sit and work on the train. I don't have on the stretch between Copenhagen and Esbjerg, which is the one I most often use, the big problems with the holes, other than when we drive under Storebælt, of course. But it also depends a little on the time you drive. It is clear that if you drive in rush hour, where there are a lot of people sitting with their computers and streaming and doing so, then there may well be problems. But otherwise there aren't much problems. But the places where it is, it's really good that we get it done now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112319	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs. Lene Foged, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112330	The purpose of the proposal here is to provide a legal basis for the transfer to Banedanmark by expropriation of the land which Banedanmark does not own and which is necessary for the construction of masters and technical installations for mobile and internet coverage in trains. In the Liberal Alliance, we think it is positive that we can now have opportunities to create a good and more stable mobile and Internet coverage in the trains for the joy and benefit of commuters. This means that people will be able to make more efficient use of their journey time and use the train as a fully operational workplace. We note in the Liberal Alliance that Banedanmark will give priority to finding location for grid extensions on its own land. In addition, you will look for places for masters, taking into account nature, environment and conservation conditions, and where they will be at least a nuisance to neighbours and surroundings. And as rapporteur, Mr. Henning Hyllested also mentioned, we can certainly also see the advantage that citizens and society in the nearby local area along the railways will experience significantly improved mobile and communication opportunities due to the new mast locations. That's why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112456	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112503	Thank you. After all, the proposal has been very well examined by the previous rapporteurs. As the Social Democrat rapporteur emphasized, it is glorious that on the same day, as we go in to increase our road safety and sanction the use of handheld electronic devices in cars, it should cost a clip in the driving licence so that we can go in and actually boost the incentive to take and use public transport. This is, of course, something that is very much at the heart of the alternative, again in terms of health, climate and not just mobility. We know that it costs public health if we drive too much by car in relation to actually getting to a station, a hub for some public transport, either through walking legs or by bicycle. So we can only support that we then get the boost opportunities to use our devices and work actively on the trains. So it's really, really good. Then some concerns have been raised about the expropriation, and that, of course, is something we need to be aware of. Fortunately, it is not the very large areas that need to be expropriated and, as far as I understand, most of the agreements are also made in a totally peaceful and dialogueal way. Again, I would like to recommend that we also think in the future about how we are boostering and supporting companies putting their dominant positions near the railway rather than near motorways, because that is the way we are pushing the use of public transport in the positive direction, in other words by putting our profession in the vicinity of public transport hubs instead of motorways. I think those are the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112701	Thank you. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112717	As the radical rapporteur cannot be present, I should like to say the following on his behalf: in the Radical Left, unlike a number of government rapporteurs, we believe that the train actually has a future. The train can move more people in less space than the car, it can go faster because there is no traffic on the tracks, and then people can spend time on something that they care about. They can read, write, work or something else entirely. However, it often requires Internet access, and here it lags. Radical Left has helped to set aside money in Togfonden DK for the state to set up masters that the telecommunications companies could use to create internet in the trains. With this proposal, Banedanmark will then be able to acquire areas where the masters can stand. Of course, we can only warmly support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112803	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112810	More people will have to use public transport, trains will have to run on time and prices will have to go down in the long term. Of course, passengers today expect them to be able to work during the journey. It is a huge advantage to use the train that you can use your time sensibly along the way, including, of course, that there is a stable network connection. There will also be advantages in having better mobile coverage, so that you can also spend your time sensibly if DSB, at the same time, knows how to follow it up, so that passengers who want to avoid noise, unnecessarily loud voices on telephones, get enough quiet coups. With this bill, we make the train journey more attractive, so it's a good Friday, and I just have to share the amazement of other rapporteurs about how so many years have been spent in making this happen. We have discussed it in the SF and we have not yet had anyone who has had the imagination to make suggestions on how it has been possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112913	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026112922	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The purpose of the draft law is to provide the legal basis for expropriation and feasibility studies in connection with the construction of masters and related technical installations for mobile and internet coverage in trains. With the political agreement on a modern railway, the Train Fund DK, it was decided that good internet coverage should be ensured in all trains on the state railway system, so that passengers have the opportunity to use the train as a fully operational workplace. By Act No. 9 of 13 October 2016 has been allocated 101 million. kr. for the construction of masters and related technical installations along the railway. Banedanmark has examined where to place the masts to ensure maximum improvement in mobile and internet coverage in trains. However, Banedanmark owns only 37 per cent. of the required areas in full. Therefore, without a legal basis for expropriation, Banedanmark would have to acquire the other land by means of voluntary agreements with the pilots concerned. In addition, for the installation and operation of masters and related technical installations, it is necessary to establish access routes, which also requires a negotiation process on access rights or land transfer with the pilot owners concerned. However, it has proved extremely difficult to reach voluntary agreements with pilots, and this could lead to both delays in parts of the project, and that mobile and internet coverage would be deficient because the necessary locations cannot be mastered. The primary purpose of the draft law is to provide for Banedanmark to be transferred, by expropriation, the land which Banedanmark does not own. This allows the masts to be placed to provide good mobile and internet coverage in trains. In this context, it is noted that the construction of railway masters will at the same time contribute to a noticeable improvement of the mobile and internet connection in the affected local areas. It is also necessary for Banedanmark to have access to private property early in the construction project. This is because Banedanmark needs to be able to carry out measurements, markings and other feasibility studies on outdoor areas in order to assess whether it is physically possible to build foundations as well as to travel mast and related technical installations in the planned locations. The purpose of the draft law is therefore also to allow Banedanmark to carry out the necessary preliminary studies in connection with the construction of masters and related technical installations, against appropriate documentation and without a court order. Finally, I would like to thank you again for the positive comments and I look forward to the committee's reading in the same positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113210	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113223	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113242	Thank you. The draft law that we are now going to deal with first in the Folketing is a proposal which lays down the rules for the functioning of the three newly appointed ghetto representatives, not least that they are given the opportunity to make reasoned proposals which a municipal council is obliged to take a position on. What's all this about? Well, it is about the three representatives being a kind of travel team that must go out and, in cooperation with housing organisations, municipal councils and, of course, ministries and government authorities, do everything they can to combat parallel societies in order to improve living conditions in vulnerable residential areas, so that we can actually see that the things that have been adopted through the legislation are also being followed up. In the consultation answers to this bill there are a number of interesting objections, and from the socialist side we have been particularly interested in the answer from BL, that is, from the housing companies, which propose that the three representatives should have better opportunities to follow developments in concrete terms in the individual residential areas and be able to choose exactly the tool that will be right, in cooperation with housing companies, municipalities and state authorities. That's the point we're going to focus on in committee, which is going to start when we're done with this first reading. That is why it is too early at this stage to say what we will finally vote for this bill. But we like the idea of three representatives as a kind of travelling team that follows up. It is therefore only a question of whether their mandate, their tool, is effective and flexible enough. I have promised to welcome from the SF's rapporteur, who is engaged in negotiations elsewhere exactly now, and to say that the SF has not done their job, but will follow the matter closely with a particular focus not to create unnecessary bureaucracy in this matter, but one can follow that in the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113524	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113528	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. As far as construction is concerned, I understand from the rapporteur that the idea of having someone who can be a travelling team and some rope-holders can be a good idea. But in this proposal, it's the state that has to decide who it is. In other words, it is not the locals themselves who help to identify the qualified people who should sit and be representatives of the vulnerable residential areas. What does the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113608	Yes, in that it must be a travel team that travels across the municipalities and as I understand it, they have already been around several municipalities and talked to many housing companies, municipal councils, committees, etc. Then it has to be some who can travel across. Well, I can tell you, it's not someone we've appointed. Some of them have been authorized by the Minister. These are some who are scattered geographically and have a broad background and experience, which means that I have nothing to put off on that model. It would probably be difficult to have a travelling team traveling across the municipalities if the form was not such that it was the same who had to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113653	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113655	Thank you. Yes, but it is more of a concern that we have BL and LLO, which could also have influenced who was supposed to protect the interests of the citizens. The second is that KL does not agree that the municipal authorities are obliged to do this following and explaining principle that they are actually going in and becoming a kind of over-authority and laying down rules on how to work with these vulnerable residential areas locally. Does the rapporteur consider this to be proportionate or fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113728	But there is, of course, part of the overall agreement where we Socialists are included in the overall agreement. There are opportunities, financial opportunities, but it is also the case that you are obliged as a municipality, as a housing company. If you meet the criteria that define a ghetto or a exposed residential area, then you also have to tackle it and there is follow-up to it. I think we have had so many ghetto plans, and there have been so many times when we have said: something has to happen now. But that has not happened, and that is why it is an agreement that we are fully involved in when it comes to the overall agreement. Because now something has to happen, and it needs to be followed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113806	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026113814	Thank you for that, President. It is always a bit awkward to come after a high rapporteur, but that is the way it is. As the previous rapporteur said, this is a legislative proposal which gives the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior the power to appoint three special independent ghetto representatives. Those representatives have already been appointed, and that is part of the government's ghettoud game. The task of Ghetto representatives is to follow the efforts of general housing organisations, municipalities and government authorities in relation to ghetto areas and vulnerable residential areas. The aim is to reduce the number of ghetto areas and thus parallel communities in Denmark. The Ghetto representatives are also responsible for monitoring the efforts of the municipalities in repatriating citizens from these areas. It is a task that we in the Danish People's Party will follow closely, because if the government's plan for a Denmark without parallel societies can succeed, it can only be done by means of repatriation and an effective return policy for numbers means something. Ghetto representatives follow developments in relation to the overall plans and development plans drawn up jointly by each municipality and housing association, and if the ghetto representatives consider that efforts to reduce the number of ghetto areas and vulnerable residential areas are not sufficiently effective, the ghetto representatives may require each municipality to examine reasoned proposals recommended by the ghetto representatives in agreement. The municipalities must therefore examine the proposal within three months and have the opportunity not to vote in favour, but must justify the refusal. Ghetto representatives must report every quarter to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and publish this assessment, and we also think it is quite important that those assessments are made public. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that in future there will be more focus on repatriation and repatriation, and that the municipalities will now be forced to take greater responsibility for the problem of foreigners, both in terms of employment, education and, above all, criminal matters. So the Danish People's Party votes for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114026	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114028	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The Danish People's Party usually takes a great deal of interest in municipal autonomy and defends it against certain attempts at centralisations and to move power to Christiansborg and all sorts of wrong places. I miss a little criticism of that in connection with this bill. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is a clear intervention in local selfgovernment that three non-elected people can demand that a municipal council deal with a proposal that they submit? On top of that, it must be made public by name and on grounds if some have presumptuously voted against it. This is a clear intervention in municipal self-government. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114119	Thank you for the question. Exactly when it comes to these ghetto areas and the challenges the municipalities face in relation to foreigners, we see this as a really good initiative because it has proven over a very, very many years that the municipalities have not been able to solve this task. Time and again we see mayors going out and saying: we want more refugees, they can just live here, and things are going really well. But we also see them whining if it is the case that the problems in the municipalities are getting too big. So with this initiative, we actually think it is a good thing that the municipalities are also given a little more responsibility in relation to also solving the tasks with all the foreigners they want to have to their municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114204	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114206	Thank you to the rapporteur for his reply. So I have to say that if you get into a situation where the municipalities do not act like this and act like that, as the Danish People's Party thinks they should do, then if it is a matter of harassing foreigners, even of a certain kind, namely foreigners with a non-western background, then it is quite okay to make some attacks on municipal self-government. This is regrettable, and it then shows that the Danish People's Party may not mean so much when it comes to municipal autonomy. Because if you mean something by it, you have to take the bitter with the sweet; then you have to accept that the municipalities do not always do what we think they should do here. So I think that is a very regrettable statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114249	This is about ensuring that every citizen in a municipality is safe, living safely, not exposed to crime and everything else. After all, we are talking here about more than 20 years when immigration policy has failed, and I would agree with that both at national and local level. But I think that by doing this, the municipalities will have a greater share of the responsibility in relation to the fact that, as a municipality, they want to take on some things in relation to refugees and foreigners. We must assume responsibility both when there is revenue and when there is expenditure. And we have a joint responsibility for this ghetto thing to succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114335	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114336	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and clarification. Well, I'm actually pretty worried about the line we're sticking out. I also often hear DF talking about the fact that it is clear that we have to take decisions with the citizens, and I do not see that happening here. I know that the Danish People's Party has some obs's on how we have conducted our immigration policy for the last 20 years, but has nothing positive happened at all in these vulnerable residential areas? Does the rapporteur know about any of the positive trends and developments that have taken place in these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114414	Well, there are many residential areas where there are some positive trends, and we have to sign for that completely. I do not see that this bill, as it is here, suddenly pops up with these ghetto representatives coming with 10-15 orders for each area that has a ghetto. I see it as an obvious possibility that ghetto representatives should actually also be a sparring partner for the municipalities, and I hope then that the municipalities will accept them and use them as a sparring partner for us to solve the problems together. So I don't see this as a big threat to the municipalities; I actually see it more as a help.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114454	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen wants to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114458	Thank you. Well, that's also the intention, you might say, behind it, and I can only back it up: the more sparring, the better. But there's a difference between sparring and command or order. So these are some non-elected representatives who can impose that on you and that and dut. Then the rapporteur says that it may not be 15, but how will the rapporteur make sure that it will not be 15 orders?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114524	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114526	I still see it as part of a solution that the municipalities can use. So I am not as concerned as the questioner is about it being imposed. It is still the case that we are not required to vote in favour of this. It's not like you're elected. But that must be justified, and the explanatory statement also provides for a process to address the problems raised by the representatives of the Ghetto and thus perhaps to arrive at a solution that fits better into exactly the area we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114602	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114614	Thank you. Since the rapporteur of the Left has been prevented immediately, I have promised to give the speech: As part of the government's proposal, one Denmark without a parallel society • No ghettos in 2030..., the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has appointed three special ghetto representatives. The task of the Ghetto representatives is, according to the bill, to follow the efforts of general housing organisations, municipalities and government authorities towards ghetto areas and vulnerable residential areas, including the efforts of the various bodies to reduce the number of these areas as well. Ghetto representatives must contribute to achieving the desired impact of the strategy against parallel societies. We must also bear in mind that there are no more ghettos that are the same, because the areas face different challenges and problems, and we Christiansborg also need to bear that in mind in our overall organisation of work and the parallel society strategy. Ghetto representatives will therefore be important for our further work towards a ghetto-free Denmark, as representatives will have the environments that are strained as part of their everyday life and work area. They are thus given a good understanding of the problems and, in this context, can also put forward qualified solutions when they find reason to do so, as has also been shown earlier in the debate on the matter. The Left can support the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which has no opportunity to be present, and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114750	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the course of our speeches, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026114803	Thank you. Today, we are going to deal with another legislative proposal which comes from the so-called ghetto package, a proposal which allows the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior to appoint three so-called ghetto representatives to follow the efforts of the state authorities, housing organisations and municipalities in relation to the vulnerable residential areas and the so-called ghetto areas, as well as the efforts of the municipalities on repatriation. The Enhedslisten is vertically opposed to the language and the proposals contained in most of the so-called ghetto package. After all, the ghetto stamp alone is devastating for the optimism, courage and inclusion that are needed in the residential areas where there are major challenges. Those who struggle to make things right, and many do, and it has actually made progress over the years, get angry, they get sad because they think they despise the efforts they make. And all these resourceful people that you want to move into the ghetto, yes, should it help their desire to move into a ghetto that you call it a ghetto? So that is a hopeless thought behind it. Of course, there are residential areas where there are major challenges, but this is primarily about poverty, unemployment, insecurity, crime and lack of opportunities in life. I need a watch so I can keep an eye on how much time I have. Good. The government and the parties that have supported all or part of the so-called ghetto package do not relate to the fundamental issues and, in the view of Enhedslisten, only make worse. It does not help people outside the labour market to be told that they have to find another place to live. It does not help people out of crime, and it does not give those people more opportunities in life, to tear down well-functioning housing, to privatise parts of the general sector. Here, then, there is another ugly feature of the overall ghetto package, which we must now deal with an expiry date. For these three government-appointed ghetto representatives not only have to follow developments, they also have a power which, according to Enhedslisten's opinion, should not have, namely to dictate to a given municipal council what to deal with on its agenda, because it is the case that these ghetto representatives, with this bill, are given the power to write to a given municipal council which does not behave, as the ghetto representatives think they should, in all these policy areas, and demand that the municipal council deal with a very specific proposal on which they can so readily vote, but where the vote should be made public with name and what reasons there may be, in order to vote against. The wording alone is thought-provoking, of course, that it is they who are voting against that which must be hanged out. If it's not a clear attack on local government, I don't know what it is. If it is not an attempt to put pressure on elected people, elected by the people in the given area, to correct the political line that lies in this whole so-called ghetto package, then I do not know what it is. So we in the Enhedslisten are voting against this bill, and I would like to say in conclusion that it has been put forward by the government, which likes to call itself liberal. I recognise that it has liberal historical roots, but what is being put forward here and the whole centralisation of the governance of the general housing sector, which lies in the so-called ghetto package, reminds me more of regimes with which we do not normally want to be compared and with which the government does not want to be compared, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. But this is evidently where liberalism has developed in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115226	Thank you. The rapporteur reached it on a second basis. We're looking to see if we can get the clock on the platform activated. That's why I brought my built-in watch! ) It was good; it is good to be experienced. Thank you for that to the rapporteur. We will continue to speak, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Lene Foged, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115248	Since the Liberal Alliance rapporteur cannot be here today, I have been allowed to give her speech. The proposal here ensures that three designated ghetto representatives must keep an eye on developments in the ghetto area. It is part of the government's efforts to dismantle the ghetto regions. They must help the municipality to take reasonable action and, in exceptional cases, must be able to make reasoned proposals on which a municipal council is obliged to decide. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the fight against ghetto regions should be a priority. It is a major problem that areas operate in whole or in part outside the rules generally applicable in Denmark. Children growing up in such areas have limited their opportunities to go their own way. As a Liberal, you cannot live with that. We therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115345	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next speaker is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115353	Thank you. I've been allowed to be a substitute for Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl, who couldn't be in the hall today. It is no secret that the alternative does not support the parallel society package or the stigmatizing and patronizing rhetoric. We are the only state in the world that I know of, which allows itself to call vulnerable residential areas ghettos, the only state in the world that I know of, which allows itself to use it as a state-sanctioned concept, when it speaks of citizens, one million citizens, in this sector it is simply under all criticism. And we can't say it loud enough, and we can't say it many times enough. It is true that there is a centralisation of governance and influence, which has been unseen since the Soviet era, and this is another proposal which deprives elected representatives and municipal boards of the right to use their mandate. That is what is being sanctioned and recognised, even by the Social Democrats. It puzzles me time and time again that we can stand here in 2018 and legitimise it. So no, we cannot support the fact that you can choose three non-elected people who require municipal councils to spend their working time on what these people say, and when the municipal councils do not follow the instructions, the proposals, they must be named and shamed and put in a public yawning stick. If it is not to put pressure on elected representatives and their decisions and their mandates, then I do not know what it is and I fully agree with the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The entire parallel society package should address the challenges that exist, although we are well on our way already. We are very well on our way already, but it is obviously not being recognised in this matter. I was born and raised in an exposed residential area in the Gellerup Park. I myself have felt like a counter-citizen, and now I am standing here as an elected parliamentarian. And that we should create opponents and fellow citizens in that optics and stigmatise and talk down to it was not and it is not something that I think is progressive, appreciative or proper tools for creating fellow citizens, but we continue to do so. It's incomprehensible! So to those who, one day or tomorrow, have the election, whether to move into a so-called ghetto, I would say: I am sorry and apologize on behalf of our democracy, that we allow ourselves to stigmatise you in this way of one million citizens. That's not fair, and of course a mother of two wouldn't say: Well, tomorrow we'll move into a ghetto, kids. That is to say, I do not understand why the state allows itself to be sanctioned in this way. So we can only say no to this bill. Finally, of course, we recognise that it may be a good idea to have a travel team, but it must be on the basis of proper, respectful and democratic principles, and not on the basis of what has been said here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115744	You're welcome. There is just one for a brief remark. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115748	Thank you to the rapporteur for this speech. It's a lot about, I can understand, what words and what concepts you use. It also means something so respectful of it. But I am just taking the floor because the rapporteur for the Alternative was told that this bill, which is now under discussion, has not been seen since Soviet times. That was the quote. I also think it is good that sometimes an argument, emotions and so on are used to seduce oneself. I now give the rapporteur the opportunity to moderate the term Soviet time. After all, this is about a travel team with Bent Hansen, Jørgen Neergaard Larsen and Bolette Christensen, who travel around and advise and guide municipal councils in getting more control of the vulnerable residential areas. So the rapporteur now has the opportunity here to moderate his statements in relation to the comparison with Soviet times.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115847	Thank you, sir. Magnus Heunicke to give me that opportunity. I said that the whole thinking behind the parallel society package is reminiscent of the way in which the state wants to put pressure on, control and override democratic processes, to interfere with constitutional rights. This is what is happening with the parallel society package and the question of what is really going on and whether it is possible will be consulted in the Housing Committee. So that was my intention. I hope I was able to elaborate on that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115932	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026115945	Thank you very much, President. The Radical Left cannot support the bill either. Like several others, both the alternative, but also BL in their hearing answer, we also have a bit of difficulty with the word ghetto. That's not exactly respect it expresses. Nor is it something that we believe helps to raise the areas that we all recognise have a need to be lifted. Anyway, it's, after all, semiotic, even if it's an ugly one. The two main reasons why the Radical Left cannot support this proposal lie elsewhere, which is deeply worrying, we think. Firstly, we are quite convinced that this proposal will contribute more bureaucracy, more waste of resources, more overlap in an area that needs exactly the opposite. We usually agree across all parties that we want simplification, that we want to make it easier for all the authorities and actors we have in different areas to go after the ball and not have to live up to a lot of procedural rules and things and things that we politicians in here at Christiansborg come up with. This is particularly true in the area of preventing parallel societies, which are about strengthening socially vulnerable housing areas. And we can see nothing but that what we are doing here is, from a central point of view, laying down new rules, some new processes which all the actors who will then make things change out in reality need to use resources and time and effort to live up to, rather than trying to meet clear objectives which we must, of course, help to set here from the central point of view, but with much greater freedom for the municipalities, for the general housing companies and for all the others in relation to follow-up. That is why we think it is a wrong way to go with the centrally established types, to be appointed with such a papal appointment of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and then to go out and impose different things and matters on all sorts of other bodies. So that's one problem. I would just like to say on the subject of bureaucracy that you can see from the consultation answers that this is going to cost resources. Danmarks Statistik points out that if they are to provide the data requested, they will probably have to charge some extra user fee. The Data Protection Agency points out that there are some issues here that make you need to be extra careful. One can already see how data should be exchanged back and forth between the Ministry and the Data Protection Agency and the municipalities to ensure that it complies with the law, etc. etc. There's a lot of bureaucracy here. I actually thought that the minister's party stood for exactly the opposite. Secondly, there is the issue of municipal autonomy which the KL has raised. We are fully aware that the municipalities are not forced to follow these laws, but the municipalities are forced to take a position on them, organise their meetings on them, organise their procedures and their administration on them. And we think we should be confident that the municipalities can. Again: Why not just set targets and then leave it up to the municipalities and general housing companies to meet those targets? I really think I would like to mention the question that the KL's are asking in their consultation answer, namely: if you want to do this at last, why is it only the municipalities that have to do something? Now, if these three wise men find out that it is the minister or us in here who have made legislation, for example. the one we are about to adopt now, which is superfluous, which merely provides more bureaucracy and which harms the purpose rather than the opposite, why is it only the municipalities that must be given good advice? Why isn't it us or the general housing companies? I do not understand that, but we are obviously infallible and must not be in any way challenged in our greatness and self-glorification. I do not think it is a good signal to send to the municipalities, I have to say. So for all these reasons, unfortunately, we are going to reject this bill, even though we are actually like many others and that is also why we are in parts of the whole, it is possible to say that the ghetto agreement is in favour of something happening here. So we just think it's an advantage to do it with the players, not against them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026120408	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments. And as far as I can see, we are done with the rapporteur's line now. So I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026120423	Well, thank you to the rapporteurs for the various comments and views. It says in the introduction to my speech paper that I would like to sign for the receipt of the bill and for the constructive debate that we have had in the Chamber. I do not quite know whether I think that it is still adequate after the debate has started and has come all around, but I will come back to that later. First of all, I would like to sign for the constructive part. The Danish People's Party supports the bill; of course I am very pleased about that. I hear the signals from the Social Democrats and the SF as if you are interested in having a dialogue to see if we can create common ground in terms of agreeing on this. As you know, the bill translates part of the follow-up to the government's parallel community strategy of March this year. It provides for the three special ghetto representatives to follow action against parallel societies. The Ghetto representatives are already well at work. You have reported back to me for the first time this week, and I can reassure Mr. Martin Lidegaard says that they also come up with proposals and ideas for what we can do at national level. For no man, neither papally appointed nor those who may be superior to wise men, knows all things. So it is always wise to be in dialogue with others. They have also been in dialogue with various actors around the country, and not least the municipalities have welcomed them incredibly positively. I'm glad, and that's what I expected. It is my expectation that the ghetto representatives will make a real difference by following the impact of the many efforts made in the parallel society strategy. The truth is that previous governments tried to take hold of parallel societies and ghettos, but the good intentions have not been achieved. I believe that this is due to the fact that, among other things, we are dealing with a number of problems. has not been followed sufficiently closely. That is why the ghetto representatives are crucial. They have to react when the results are not satisfactory, and therefore it is important that with this bill we provide representatives with the necessary tools to do their work. Then there were also various critical remarks, among others. About the ghetto thing. Let me be clear: I am not one of those who think it is relevant to discuss whether we have ghetto problems in Denmark. We have... It is a quote from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr who wrote it, and I fully agree. I mean, I think we have to look at it in such a way that we deal with the problems that exist. Then, of course, we can have a long discussion about words, and I understood that both the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Alternative were interested in that. But you can say that you can turn that up to different rhetorical levels, and that was also done by the three parties. I must say that I find it a little funny that a former member of the Communist Workers' Union Marxist-Leninists accuses me of Soviet methods... a member who, moreover, sits in the parliamentary group with up to several members of the DKP, a party that wanted to make Denmark a Soviet Communist dictatorship. Then the hypocrisy can't get any bigger. In the alternative, the same thing was said a little bit. I forgive getting involved in the matter, but I think we should get it down to a rhetorical level where it belongs. We disagree when Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen says he apologizes on behalf of democracy. I have to say there: no, the rapporteur does not. Democracy is here and a majority will implement this proposal in one way or another. So it is not on behalf of democracy, but on behalf of the minority, that one apologises. The Radicals also opposed ghettos. You can discuss that. It's semiotic, said Mr. Martin Lidegaard. And I could not help smiling when the rapporteur later said that the Radicals were behind part of the ghetto proposals. So you obviously use the expression yourself, even though you think it is awful when it is the government that does it. Then Mr. Martin Lidegaard made two other comments, which dealt with consultation responses from Danmarks Statistik and the Danish Data Protection Agency respectively. And there I would just like to refer to the commentary on the consultation table, in which we have just taken up the questions and listened to the consultation answers that are in exactly the two areas that Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned as problematic. This means that, in the light of the comments made by Denmark's Statistics, we have written into the bill that the ghetto representatives will take into account that their requests for information will not be an unnecessary administrative burden on the housing organisations and authorities concerned. This is particularly true in relation to requirements for the provision of new information. That was in relation to the first one. And if you look further on pages 7 and 8 of the consultation note, you will see that we have made three changes to the data processing concerns of the Data Protection Agency. So, in relation to the concerns of the Radical Left, where one was about the administrative and data protection issues, I think we have actually responded to that. The second is about words. Then you can say that sometimes when a discussion is run up hard, it is just a dispute about words. And if it is just a dispute over words and, by the way, it is a word that the representative of the Radical Left himself used a few minutes later in a different context, I think we should actually try to see whether the Radical Left would not want to vote in favour of this proposal. However, I welcome the general support for the proposal and I look forward to the further work of the committee, where the issues and issues that you wish to discuss will of course be addressed and will be received with open arms and constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121019	For the time being, there is a dialogue in this Chamber, for there are three short remarks to be made. The first is sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121028	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for preparing a little for the meeting and putting himself in my political past. I'm not running from that, so I appreciate it. But the Minister has to read a little further on the story that led to me and others becoming wiser. As a result, we joined the Left Socialist Party, which had a clear criticism of the exact conditions and that in its party programme, when the party was founded, the Enhedslisten clearly distanced itself from the methods and forms of government used in the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries. But unlike us, apparently, the Minister has not learned much from it. The question I would like to ask the Minister is what the Minister thinks about the KL's hearing answer, which is very clear. You say clearly that this is an interference in local self-government. Will the Minister tell us how he feels about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121132	Sir. Finn Sørensen and the past of others in supporting the Soviet dictatorship must be their own goal, and I think we should be too good, even if we have become wiser and praised for accusing others who have been on the grounds of democracy all the way through to be out on the galaj, as Mr. Finn Sørensen and others have promoted views about persecution, anti-democracy of ordinary people. I just think we should be ashamed of that, move on from it and have a proper democratic debate on what we are discussing. I have read the KL's hearing answer and I do not agree with their views. That is, of course, the good thing about a democracy: there is the possibility of having different views. I would just like to say that there are plenty of things going on in the municipalities, which are also under state legislation; for example, there are a lot of things going on in the municipalities. they have to deal with budgets according to certain rules at certain times, and if they do not do so according to specific legislation, the Minister will also come after them. So there are plenty of restrictions on how to carry out your duties as a municipal councillor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121239	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121240	So we have to expect more of this sort of thing. The point here is to give power to three people appointed by the Minister, who are not elected, to interfere in what should be on the agenda for the work of a municipal council. The National Association of Municipalities is usually a peaceful association, which is very much in favour of working with the government. Sometimes more than well is, from Enhedslisten's point of view, especially when you make financial agreements.But here there is a very clear criticism from the National Association of Municipalities, and in fact it should sting quite seriously on the Minister, because he is, of course, responsible for everything that is going on in the municipalities. I am concerned that the Minister is not concerned about that criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121336	I therefore agree that the National Association of Municipalities is a quite peaceful association, and we have a good dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities in many different areas. Often we agree, sometimes we don't, and that's life. What I am concerned about is that we have ghetto problems in Denmark, that we have parallel societies in Denmark, and that initiatives have been taken over and over again without getting to where problems could be solved. That is why we say that there has been a need for more robust methods, and then we have said that it might help if we followed up more specifically and if we also had the opportunity to make concrete proposals. That, then, is what we are seeking a majority for in the Folketing here today, and on that occasion I generally welcome the speeches that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121422	Before I give the floor to the next brief remark, I would just like to point out that when we have a little unrest up here, it is because the second count of the speaker only works once in a while. And if it goes on like that, I'll look over to the speaker's desk, and then I'll stand up when the time is running out. The next brief remark is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121446	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for your speech and for your clarification. I am a little concerned that we write off the way we speak of people and areas in our society, as just semantics, because in my world, but I am then both educated academic and artist, words actually create our reality. And in terms of research, you can go far into semioticism and all sorts of other theories and talk about whether it is truth or not. So to me, it is extremely important how we address our society. In addition, a rapporteur from the Minister's own party, Mr. Villum Christensen, stood on the platform just last week and said that the Liberal Alliance does not believe that the concept of ghetto is fair in relation to those areas and that one would like to look at changing language. Then it's something that's just sir. Villum Christensen who believes, or is it generally for the Minister's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121551	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121553	At any rate, I think it is a beautiful and correct Grundtvigian approach, as Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen has that the word creates what it mentions. And that's right, too. But here it is the other way around. It is not the case that the government has come and sat in some closed room and thought: now we will call vulnerable residential areas ghettos. It's already like that. That is what people call them; that is what they are called. It's not something we've just invented out of the blue. Look up online, what does the word ghetto mean? There are, of course, some historical terms in which to hang, but you can also see descriptions of the fact that in this millennium it has been used about exactly the type of residential areas that we are talking about here. This is not something invented this year or last year or by this government. So it's not something that's been created by us. One can say that, of course, sometimes the word creates what it mentions, sometimes it does not. There are some who have renamed the IRS as SKAT, but such a tax in a more loving or human sense is hardly a matter, at least not for someone like me who is not very happy to pay as much of the kind we are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121703	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121706	Thank you. Now I can't see the clock, yes, here it is. Well, now we're just talking about the n-word, and the minister recognizes that words create reality, so let's agree that we've also stopped using words like n-words and negative words about people's sexuality etc. This is how we learn, and perhaps we should learn here instead of justifying the fact that we, as the only state in the world, are using this concept of vulnerable residential areas. The second is anti-democracy, which the Minister himself is talking about. Well, it's being said that this is a limitation. KL says that this is a reduction in the mandate of the elected representatives. The minister says he doesn't agree. But what is the recognition of the mandate of the elected representatives and of the KL representing the mandate of the municipalities? I'm just hearing that the Minister is sweeping the criticism. The Minister will not say at all that they believe that it actually limits their mandate and is therefore undemocratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121813	I say that it is the Folketing that sets the framework for the work of the municipal councils. Sometimes it can happen that it will be experienced narrowly, in relation to what it has been so far, and sometimes it can be seen that it is expanded in relation to what it has been so far. But there is nothing undemocratic about the fact that a democratic majority decides what the framework is for the work of municipal councils. That is how our democracy works, and I think that is quite fine. We do not create ghettos by calling the government's plan a ghetto plan or by calling the representatives of ghetto representatives. There are ghettos, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, and that's the problem. We want to abolish them, and once we have abolished them, there are no ghettos, and then we have changed reality. And that is the reality we need to change, not the other talk. That is the reality we need to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121905	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026121909	What brought me to the keys here was that the Minister quite correctly said: we have plenty of central control and centralism in advance; we have wrapped the municipalities into tight budget coverage and all sorts of others. That is quite correct. I would even say that we have wrapped them up too much if one asks me, and I actually thought that the Minister came from a party that wanted fewer restrictive central ties, more freedom and confidence at the local level and at the institutional level to solve those tasks, and fewer process objectives. And this is exactly the opposite. It's multiple processes. These are several methods that we are now dragging down over the heads of the actors who are going to change reality and on which we are also in complete agreement. That is why I think it is a really strange argument that we already have a lot of these constricting central ties: so let's just introduce some more of them. I would just like to sign for, and I have also read the consultation note, that you write 'I don't think it's a big concession that you shouldn't create an unnecessary amount of administration, especially in new areas. It is, after all, more a pious hope, I would say, one writes into the legislation than that is what one might call tough legislation. However, where I really think the Minister does not quite answer the criticism, this is where the three representatives are allowed to force the municipal councils to take up legislation. They cannot force national politicians to do so. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122042	I'm not quite sure that I understood that. I'm sorry, I'm saying that we're going to force them to take legislation up in the municipalities, that is to say that they had to deal with proposals outside the municipal council. Okay, fair enough. It is true that we do so and that we do not give the opposite mandate if that is what is being asked. That is absolutely correct. After all, we need to look at what challenges we are facing. There are plenty of challenges in society. Some are big, some are small. This challenge has not been dealt with well enough either by the governments, Mr. Martin Lidegaard's party itself has sat in, or by other governments in recent decades. We haven't done well enough. So I don't think I'm sorry, I'm saying it's a marginal cost in a tiny corner of this that's crucial to whether we're gonna solve this. These are huge economic challenges. These are huge social challenges. These are huge cultural challenges that we cannot allow our society to face in 10 years' time when we come to 2030. That's what this is about. I am open to it if the Radical Left should have more proposals on how we can prevent a bill of over 30 billion. kr. Every year, how we can prevent people from just living off public coffers and, by the way, behaving as they please. That's also what we need to prevent with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122208	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122209	The Minister certainly does not have to convince me of the importance of the issue. That is also why I would argue that it is extremely important to do this with the key players, so with that is why this element of a little compulsion puzzles me, and that is why I am specifically asking about it. So, if this is so important, why is it only the municipal councils that can be forced to deal with a proposal? Why can these three representatives not say: but the legislation which the Minister has stood for is not really good either; we are also forced to consider a proposal here in the Folketing? Why does the compulsion only go one way? That was my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122251	Now I myself have had the pleasure of being a member of the party which Mr. Martin Lidegaard represents, and the Radical Left was at least then incredibly concerned with the constitution. Unless the Radical Left has an amendment to the Constitution that one should be able to propose such a thing, that is not something that can be done. In other words, it is entirely self-evident why it is that they cannot make such a proposal. That would not be in line with the rules governing who can make proposals here under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122322	Thank you, Minister. There are no more entries for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122343	The debate is open. And the first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Magnus Heunicke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122409	Thank you. After all, the electoral procedure itself is at the heart of a people's government. It must be trusted, it must be done properly and it must be ensured that the rules are optimal all the time. And I must actually be honest and say that, before I got this rapporteurship, I had no idea that the electoral law would change almost every parliamentary year at least while I have been rapporteur with tiny adjustments. And what has come to my mind is that the electoral law must be cared for, cared for and polished and screwed on, as if it were fine mechanics, and that when things arise, we must be ready to change it. Therefore, in my performance, I would like to pay tribute to the official work of the Ministry for following it here and for being zealous and thorough and showing due diligence in adjusting and being ready to adjust when needed. This bill is for us to see an adjustment of a lot of small elements that have turned out to be or to be inappropriate about the election procedure. I can mention a few of the changes that can be made. In the last municipal elections, there were examples of local parties having the same name when the voters had to cross. There were, for example, on Lolland two parties that had the name New Lolland. This is not, of course, appropriate, and that is why this small change is now being decided, yes, it may seem insignificant, but it does mean something that, within the territory of the same municipal or regional council, you cannot have two lists with the same name. That's a long line, and I don't want to go through them all here. If you are interested in it, you can go in and find the bill in its entirety. However, there is also a major change here, namely that the number of Danish Members of the European Parliament is hereby increased from the 13 Members today to 14 Members after the next elections. And it is, of course, because the British have chosen to leave the European Union, that we will have 14 members in the future. In those words, I would like to say, and this may not come as the big surprise, that we Social Democrats can support this, which is a fine-tuning, an adjustment. There will probably also be another year or next year as we try to keep the electoral law completely optimal, as the electoral procedure is still a central and important part of our popular rule. I have promised, as in the last legislative proposal, also to welcome from the SF's rapporteur, who is engaged in negotiations elsewhere at Slotsholmen today, and to say that they also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122710	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have noted that it has also been spoken on behalf of the SF. The next speaker in the rapporteur's series is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026122719	Thank you. After all, it is a bag of mixed candy that we are dealing with here, with many different minor adjustments within some of the most important things we have: the electoral law and our democracy. Many of these changes lie right to the right and make great sense, but there is also some legislation in which the EU requires Denmark to change our electoral law, and we in the Danish People's Party fundamentally disagree that they should interfere. But I will start with what is right: we in Denmark go from 13 to 14 Members of the European Parliament in relation to the situation that is happening with Brexit and, of course, that candidate lists should not be the same. We must not make it opaque for the citizens so that they do not vote for the right party, nor that there are sometimes non-attached parties from parties who would like to take up the name of an already existing political party. It makes very good sense that this cannot be done. It also makes good sense for us to advertise more and more on our website, both municipalities and regions and the Ministry of the Interior, about the electoral procedures that are taking place, so that citizens are as informed as possible, and that substitutes who come into individual meetings of municipal councils or regions can also be paid for it. There are other small things that also make sense. On the other hand, we in the Danish People's Party find it very difficult to do so when EU legislation comes in and puts its disgusting hand on us and tells us what we here from the democratic platform to vote for or against, especially when it comes to the democratic electoral process in Denmark. Therefore, the Danish People's Party will table an amendment in committee asking for the bill to be split and for the following paragraph to be separated: EU citizens must have the opportunity to vote and stand for local and regional elections from the day they reside in Denmark, whether they are registered with the CPR or not. In the Danish People's Party we believe that we should go the other way, so that only people with Danish citizenship can vote in Danish elections and thus influence the policy being pursued in Denmark, not to mention that EU citizens are now given the opportunity to stand as candidates, which we are against. This bill once again exhibits the power that the EU actually has over nation states and Danish legislation. We would like to argue against this, especially when it comes to democratic elections in Denmark. That is why the Danish People's Party is waiting for the committee before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123026	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123035	Thank you. As the rapporteur of the Left has been acutely prevented, I have promised to take up the rapporteur's speech on this matter. This bill is about implementing a number of necessary changes to the electoral law and amendments to the law on the governing board of municipalities. As you know, the number of Danish MEPs is changing from 13 to 14 as a result of Britain's withdrawal from the European Union. In addition, we are extending the right to vote in European Parliament elections to foreign dancers who are under guardianship and who are deprived of legal capacity and who have temporarily resided in a third country. The 2016 amendment did not take into account the fact that these voters should be able to retain the right to vote in European Parliament elections on an equal footing with other Danish nationals if they are temporarily resident in a third country. This was an unintended discrimination which we are now getting right. The proposal also contains some modernisations of the administration of the municipalities, which have also been explained in the past during the discussion here, so I shall not repeat that. I can say that the Left can support the bill. Then I should also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which has no opportunity to be present, and to say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123154	Thank you to the rapporteur and we have noted that we have also now spoken on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. The next speaker in this Chamber is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123208	Thank you. Enhedslisten also supports this bill. In addition to the things that other rapporteurs have taken note of and welcomed, we would like to welcome the point about extending the right to vote in European Parliament elections to those with Danish citizenship who are under guardianship, with the removal of legal capacity, and who have temporarily resided in a third country. This seems to us to be a beautiful extension of the other efforts we have made to ensure the right to vote for that group of citizens. So we just think we should rejoice in that too. Then there is the Danish People's Party's criticism of the question of getting an exact definition of the right to vote which resident EU citizens can exercise through their voting rights in relation to standing for municipal and regional elections and the election of Danish Members to the European Parliament. After all, we share the basic view of the Danish People's Party that the European Union should not interfere in this. But unfortunately, in this case, whether the Danish People's Party pipe or sings and Enhedslisten pipe and sings with it, the people have the right to vote as described here. So I see this here as a technicality, so that it is described in the electoral law how we are to manage the people's right to vote in the electoral procedure itself, because, as the Danish People's Party has realised, and several others also, EU law in such an issue takes precedence over Danish law. One can be happy or angry about that, and we are in principle angry about that in the Enhedslisten, but given that it does not change anything at all, we might as well get it described in the electoral law. But all right, we have to look at the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party. We will, of course, do this with an open mind, but from the outset we have just had to swallow that camel to stay in that language. Finally, I should also like to welcome another point, which is that the number of Danish Members of the European Parliament is increasing from 13 to 14 Members. After all, I regard this as an obvious increase in the opportunities for both the People's Movement against the European Union and the Enhedslist to be represented in the European Parliament at the next elections. So I'm looking forward to it. And, of course, this should not be seen as a warning against other countries joining the European Union, nor should it be understood that our greed for seats in the European Parliament could make us just say that we should not be so concerned about that. We have not changed our view of Denmark's membership of the European Union. So that doesn't change anything in this respect. So we will continue to work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123509	Thank you, too. There are no brief comments, so the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Lene Foged. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123522	Thank you. When our rapporteur had to suck off again and I am now speaking warmly, I am taking this too. The proposal implements a number of amendments to various electoral laws. This applies, among other things, to: We are now going to have 14 Members of the European Parliament. This happens on a rather sad background, but it is gratifying that Denmark has more to say in the European Union. The proposal also adapts Danish legislation to EU legislation on some other points. A special system of remuneration shall be established for substitutes and the right to vote shall be guaranteed for persons without legal capacity who have temporarily resided in a third country. And the latter is equality, so that it does not matter whether you are temporarily staying in a third country or an EU country. This is all very sensible, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123620	Thank you. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123634	Here too, the Radical Left can at any rate agree with everything, and we can give the Minister a hundred percent positive registration, both because of course we would like to have an extra Member of Parliament from the Danish side. It is a wonderful thing that we get it, perhaps it is the only good thing about Brexit, one can say that we succeed and also because we think it is quite natural that EU citizens who live in Denmark and pay their taxes etc. have the opportunity to vote in the elections as well. We also think that all the other minor adjustments mentioned by the other rapporteurs are sensible and we can therefore support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123716	Thank you. It's moving fast here, so the next speaker is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026123726	Thank you. I shall start by regretting, if it is the government that is holding so many meetings on Fridays, that no more can take part in the work of the Folketing. However, I would like to thank the rapporteurs who have made comments. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on most of what is. I noticed that both the Social Democracy, the SF and the Radical Left supported the proposal. This proposal makes a number of changes in the electoral field. We already have a well-functioning electoral machine, known in fact as one of the world's best, and we must stick to that. I think that together we can be pleased that we can go from 13 to 14 Danish MEPs in the European Parliament, even though I feel a little bit like Mr Tugendhat. Martin Lidegaard, i.e. that may be the only positive thing I think is about Brexit, but that's the way it is. I may not share a hundred percent, sir. Finn Sørensen's hopes that this means that there is room for both the People's Movement against the EU and the Enhedslisten. Quite outside the law-making process, I had personally hoped that this meant that there was room for the Liberal Alliance, but we will have to see that when the votes are counted. Then the Danish People's Party had a single subject in which one did not agree with the government, namely on this issue of voting in relation to EU citizens who are in Denmark. It is quite true that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Finn Sørensen, said that the people, the citizens of the European Union, have the right to vote and to vote for both municipalities, regions and the European Parliament, regardless of whether or not we adopt it here. That's the way it is. And that is because EU law gives EU citizens the right to vote and stand for municipal and regional elections and European elections in the Member State in which they live, under the same conditions as its own inhabitants. The point is that, in order to vote, you have to be on the electoral list, and in Denmark it is the case that in order to be on the electoral list, you have to be registered as a resident in the CPR register and, in order to be registered as a resident in the CPR, you have to have a residence document, typically a registration certificate. Certificates of registration are issued by the State Administration, and the issue itself may be linked to a certain length of the proceedings. Thus, there is a risk that resident EU nationals may not exercise their right to vote because they cannot be entered on the electoral register due to a lack of residence registration in the CPR due to the fact that they have not received a registration certificate because of bureaucracy. What we are saying is that, in order to avoid that there are people who actually have the right to vote but cannot be able to exercise their rights, we propose that you can be included in the electoral register when you meet the conditions, even if you are still in a waiting position in relation to bureaucracy. So this is a proposal that ensures that we, like Mr. Finn Sørensen said he was complying with EU law. And that is why it is probably also a place that it is difficult for the government to make a concrete concession. But I welcome the broad support, and we will see how we deal with the small corner of the Danish People's Party and perhaps not Enhedslisten. I understood that Enhedslisten fully supports the proposal, but yet was open to discussing this little corner... wasn't that how it was supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124101	Thank you. The last point I think we are going to clarify now, because the first one to a brief remark is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124106	Thank you. Well, I was very sorry because the Minister did not mention the Enhedslisten among the parties that were positive about the proposal, and then I thought: perhaps it is because the Minister cannot really include it if the Enhedslisten is positive about something that comes from the government. But we are in this case. And then I did not get the floor to say that the Enhedslisten is a matter of course to me, but it is not certain that it is for those who sit and keep up with us politically in favour of the people concerned being able to exercise those electoral rights regardless of what the European Union is doing. It is not to please the European Union that we vote in favour of such a bill. It was just to clarify the sad fact that whatever we adopt here in the Folketing, it is the European Union that decides. But then I forgot to say something else from the platform, and it was that I should greet the alternative and say that they are also on the list of parties supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124200	Well, isn't that a great way to end an afternoon debate on a Friday like this? Well, I have to say that I can say so much that the Enhedslisten votes in favour of the government's proposal and supports the government's proposal. I am delighted every time that happens, and I hope that we can get into the situation that is happening even more often than is happening today. But we're gonna have to put that to the test.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124228	The questioner for another brief remark? No. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, DF, with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124235	Thank you. I am well aware that EU legislation is above a great deal of what we are in charge of here in Parliament, but I do not really think that is being told to the citizens as often as I want it to be told. That was also the reason for my remarks that the citizens should actually know that we are actually standing with our hands behind our backs and just nodding and saying yes. Having said that, however, I also hope that the fourteenth mandate, wherever it falls, will help to see if anything can be done in relation to how Danish democracy can be carried out in the future. I know it has long prospects, because the Danish People's Party, together with Enhedslisten, is of course the only ones who ask critical questions. I just hope that we can have a look at Brexit and then perhaps take some of the good things that we can see there is at Brexit, and then also transfer them to Denmark forward-looking, so that it is Danes and Danish citizens who decide about democracy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124345	The last thing I cannot promise, but what I can say is that I always think we should be aware of what decisions are best taken at a national level, which are best taken at a local level and which are best taken at European or other supranational level. That is what we have in fact been discussing both in the previous draft law and in this draft law. In this case, I think it is obvious to say that when people have a right, it should not, of course, be bureaucracy that prevents them from exercising the right they now have. We can then disagree on whether to have that right, but then we have to decide on that, but when people have it, I think the most reasonable thing is that they can exercise it without putting bureaucratic obstacles in the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124427	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124448	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124511	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today is, after all, the implementation of already agreed initiatives under the auspices of the veterinary conciliation and the food compromise. We are talking about two conciliations, with all the parties on the table. I believe that this is a great gain and I also believe that it is evidence that food safety is taken very seriously in Denmark and in the Danish Parliament. So, first of all, a colleague to all of us to stand together on these important issues. The first part of the bill relates to the MRSA effort, in which the Minister is authorised to carry out infectious measures so that MRSA does not leave pig stalls. Specifically, the authorisation should be used for the requirement to set up bath facilities and a requirement for staff in the barn to bathe after a working day has ended. In relation to those who enter the barn for a short time, a description of the measures to safeguard the risk of infection must be drawn up, so that, for example, it can also be ensured that veterinarians or craftsmen or others who are short-term in a barn do not take the infection with them into the surrounding community. This is in line with the recommendations of the MRSA expert group. Basically, it is a little sad that it has come to such an extent that we have to lay down such requirements, but nevertheless I believe that we have an obligation to ensure that MRSA does not leave pig stalls and enter the surrounding community. The second element of the draft law is the result of the Veterinary Conciliation Committee III. Here we agreed in the contract circle to abolish the different categories of advice provided in the health advisory agreements. With this proposal, the rules on ups and downs in advisory categories are abolished. In practice, this means that it will no longer be the advisory categories that determine how much advice a farmer needs in order to ensure animal health and animal welfare. Instead, it will be a task for the farmer and the related veterinarian to work together. In this context, it is of course important that the parties to the agreement stress that this amendment should not have adverse effects on animal health and animal welfare. This relationship is important to us in the Social Democratic Party. When we make life easier for Danish farmers and for the farming industry, it should not, of course, be at the expense of animal welfare. The final element of the proposal concerns the fight against salmonella in cattle, the so-called Salmonella Dublin. This is a response from the Food Agency III. The change means that veterinary advice can be required in relation to Salmonella Dublin in risk herds. In this way, Danish farmers who are at risk can be better able to deal with Salmonella Dublin. The goal must be for us to eradicate the disease in Danish cattle production, and this action is a step on the right path towards that goal. So, on the whole, the Social Democrats can support the proposal. It is our view that the proposal provides a good balance between considerations of both the agricultural industry and food safety and animal welfare, so that we look forward to further work on the proposal in committee. Finally, I should like to welcome from the Socialist People's Party and the alternative, which, because of debates elsewhere in the House, cannot be present, but both of which support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124911	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have noted that two more parties have now been advocated. Simon Kollerup Yes). The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026124922	Thank you for that, President. Unfortunately, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has been prevented from being here today, and that is why I have been allowed to put forward the position of the Danish People's Party in this area. This bill amending the animal-care law contains some small but important changes. With the adoption of the Veterinarian Conciliation Agreement III 2018-2021., the intention is to strengthen the existing infectious barriers to livestock MRSA between pig stalls and the surrounding community. So with this bill, rules will be laid down requiring bath facilities for stable workers as well as a plan to bathe after the end of the working day. In addition, a procedure for the protection of people who often go to stables for less time is laid down. The rules of the Health Advisory Agreement for pig and cattle herds and mink farms are simplified by abolishing the advisory categories. The health advisory agreements are maintained, but the change will result in administrative relief for the individual farmer. Finally, the draft law provides for the establishment of rules on mandatory veterinary advice on the control of Salmonella Dublin. The aim is to eradicate Salmonella Dublin bacteria in Danish pig production. The prohibition must be applied in flocks with Salmonella Dublin infection risk and it is in herds which have been in Level 2 or 3 for at least two years, i.e. herds which have not been able to reduce their salmonella level within the time limits laid down in the cattle regulation. So, with these brief comments, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125103	Thank you. And the next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, sir. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125112	Thank you. The proposal put forward is a follow-up to Veterinary Conciliation III and is an important step towards stronger action against Salmonella Dublin and livestock MRSA. It is important that livestock production poses as little risk as possible not only for the sake of livestock but also for the sake of all citizens in the surrounding society. The health of the Danes must be a priority when we regulate the environment and food, and with the proposal there will be among other things. rules requiring the establishment of bathing facilities and a plan for the use of baths after the end of the working day. Infection prevention measures in herds are important in order to minimise the risk of spreading livestock MRSA and Salmonella Dublin into society as much as possible. We must try to eradicate Salmonella Dublin in cattle production and, with the proposal, we are increasing our efforts by increasing veterinary advice to cattle producers who have productions which are likely to present a risk of infection. For us, it is important that products with a risk of infection are reduced as much as possible. Reducing cases of Salmonella Dublin and livestock MRSA could reduce the number of human disease cases, which would benefit the health of Danes, and stronger action against Salmonella Dublin and livestock MRSA would benefit both producers and society and all of us citizens. That is why the Left supports the bill. And then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which did not have the opportunity to be present, and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125251	Thank you. And we have also noted that it has been spoken on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125304	Thank you. This bill is a bit of a mixed-up country deal. It makes sense, of course, to include in the legislation that there should be a plan in pig herd protection plans for the farmer and his employees to take a bath after the end of the working day. The aim of the proposal is to limit the spread of MRSA to the surrounding society, and this is a fine little measure which may have a minor effect and which Enhedslisten supports, but at the same time it is far from enough. If we are to seriously limit the infection of MRSA from pig stalls and minches, it is here simply to treat the symptoms of a production which is not only a disaster for our environment but which is also unacceptable in terms of animal welfare and which poses a high health risk to the population. First of all, we need to sane the breeding peak, we need to map the MRSA spread in Denmark, so that we really get an overview of the spread of the infection, and we need to have as a goal that all the herds involved are cleaned. We must create a healthy production of pigs with a much higher level of animal welfare and a radically reduced consumption of medicines. Because today we are in an enormously insecure situation where the infection with antibiotic-resistant pig bacteria is getting out of control. The health of all of us is being put at risk in order to safeguard the economic interests of a few farmers. And if we do not saddle up, there is a great risk that in a few years' time we will not be able to treat ordinary infections with antibiotics. We need MRSA completely out of the Danish pig stalls, and this requires far more radical changes in the way in which we produce pigs in Denmark: production which not only has an extremely high consumption of antibiotics and zinc, but also a production form that is constantly pressured to increase productivity. The premature weaning age is already causing major problems with diarrhea from the start, then the tail is cut off because the pigs are bored, and all the way through they are stowed together in far too little space. There is poor animal welfare all around in conventional pig production. This is then compensated for by giving animals large amounts of medicine. Lack of space, pressured animals and large amounts of antibiotics are precisely the dangerous cocktail that creates space for MRSA and other resistance. We have unhealthy production that must be constantly treated. The lack of space in the pigs, on the other hand, gives room for MRSA to grow. To think that a single bath after work can solve the problems of the spread of MRSA is therefore naive, especially in the light of the latest inventory, which shows that it is now virtually every pig herd in this country that is infected with MRSA. We will not solve the problems of MRSA and antibiotic resistance in pig production until we fundamentally change production. What we need to do is to reach out to farmers and help them into organic and sustainable production with much better animal welfare. The second part of the bill deals with the simplification of health advisory agreements for pig, cattle and mink farms. It is an expiry of the veterinary settlement, which Enhedslisten is part of, as it brings improvements overall. However, we are not enthusiastic about all parts of the settlement. It is precisely the abolition of the advisory categories that we consider to be highly questionable, so it is the responsibility of the owner of the crew, in cooperation with his own veterinarian, to agree on further advice. We believe that a different form of security must be established in order to provide farmers with the necessary advice when there are no requirements and objectives to be met. The action taken in the draft law laying down rules on mandatory veterinary advice for Salmonella Dublin to be responsible for cattle property makes sense in relation to the eradication of Salmonella Dublin in cattle production in Denmark. Finally, the Enhedslisten has not at this stage taken a final position on the draft law, as we are awaiting the committee's reading, where we hope that the government will be accommodating, in terms of covering the flaw that exists, in terms of ensuring the necessary advice to farmers when the health advisory categories lapse.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125720	There is one for a brief remark. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125723	Thank you. That was a real fire speech. In other contexts, I think one could also say that it could be a real toast, and congratulations on that. At least you had all the tabs aired, you might say. There's just one thing I want to do about it. I understood from the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten that when you go beyond all the tirades, you will, in the end, stand by what you have agreed and well for it. What I just want to round up is that we can all agree that we must limit the use of antibiotics and all those things as much as possible, and we do so in Denmark with the many measures that have been taken over the years. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that I also think there have been reports of this right here in the time of the last week ■ that we in Denmark are actually among the countries which are the lowest in terms of consumption. So what one might wish for was, in fact, that all other countries began to follow our example here in Denmark. Can the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125826	It is true that if we compare with other countries, Danish consumption of antibiotics and medicines is low. However, given that it is basically healthy pigs that we have and that they are young pigs, they are still receiving huge amounts of medicine. If, for example, we compare it with organic production, they only use one sixth of the amount of antibiotics used in conventional pig production, and this is because the piglets are weaning prematurely. This is because animals are being stowed too closely together, and this is because animal welfare is really poor in the conventional pig houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125903	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125907	Thank you. Just a little follow-up: It's nice to get a recognition of this, too, I understood that Danish farmers as a whole are actually among those who have the lowest consumption. If you go in and look at it, there's a lot of difference between the device that uses the most and the one that uses the least. And that is precisely where we have ensured, through the agreements we have made, yellow card arrangements and other things, that consumption has fallen quite drastically. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026125941	It is true that consumption is falling, but it is not falling enough, because when we can see that MRSA lurks out in the stables. Unfortunately, we must not be told where exactly it is, so that we can get rid of this disease. And the aim should be that we can have healthy pig production with a high level of animal welfare and low consumption of medicines. And that therefore requires that we get a different production from what we have today, where we stow the animals so closely together and demand such high productivity of the animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130010	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130014	Thank you. First of all, praise for the speech, which I do not really consider to be a toast, but in fact as a good rapporteur for this bill. It was really Mr. Erling Bonnesen's entry into the debate, which made me express myself, because I hear the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten be concerned about the second element of the bill on health advice agreements, and what you do now when it becomes more lenient. I also said in my speech that it is important for us in the Social Democratic Party that the parties to the agreement stress that it must not have negative consequences for animal welfare and animal health, and I am sure that the Minister will be able to reassure us all in the near future when he comes to the platform. But my question to Enhedslisten's rapporteur is: Do you have any ideas in the Enhedslisten about what you could do to be safe in this new situation where we would also like to make it a little more relaxed to be a farmer?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130113	The most important thing for me is that we are guaranteed that those producers who do not meet the targets we have for antibiotic consumption and for animal welfare know that a few sharp eyes are looking at them. I think the Socialist rapporteur and I can easily agree on that. What kind of grip do we have to take precisely to ensure that and to ensure the advice that is of benefit to the animals, I think we should look at in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130143	There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur, so thank you for that. The next speaker is Mrs Lene Foged, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130200	Thank you. As, unfortunately, our Liberal rapporteur cannot be present, I have been allowed to give his speech. As has already been explained, the aim of the bill, which we have dealt with here, is to prevent certain bacteria and diseases from spreading from the stables and to the surrounding society. We are now creating effective tools that help reduce the risk of transmission of MRSA, while not imposing undue burden on farmers. It's always a balancing act, but I actually think we found this. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130241	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr President. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130251	Thank you. Like the other speakers, the Radical Left supports the proposal. It is, after all, a settlement which all parties in the Folketing are behind, and the intention here is to prevent infection. So yes, the Radical Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130306	Thank you. Then we have reached the rapporteur's line and I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food. You don't have to run. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130320	Thank you for that, President. I'm sorry I'm late. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the contributions that have been made. Several of the initiatives in veterinary conciliation III are based on the recommendations of the most recent MRSA expert group report. The veterinary conciliation parties therefore want to focus further on the fact that livestock MRSA is not carried out out of the housing and into the surrounding community, and in this context, an authorisation is proposed to lay down rules on and to notify orders for the implementation of specific infectious measures in cases other than in the event of outbreaks or suspected outbreaks. The existing provision on prevention of infection includes situations of outbreaks and suspected outbreaks. On the basis of the authorisation, rules will be laid down requiring the establishment of bathing facilities. We are now discussing shower curtains in the Danish Parliament in pig herds and the requirement that the crew's so-called zoonotic protection plan describes that there is a requirement to bathe after the end of the working day for persons working in the barn. The plan shall also describe the measures taken to prevent infection in order to ensure the risk of infection of persons who frequently enter the stables for a short time, e.g.: veterinarians and craftsmen. These requirements will apply to all pig herds which have a health advisory agreement. Regulation simplification initiatives in veterinary conciliation III result in the abolition of the different categories of advice in the field of health advice for pig and cattle herds and in mink farms. The intention is to abolish the current system of different health advisory categories and therefore to repeal the provision authorising the Minister to lay down rules on the withdrawal of bovine and porcine herd advisory categories. At the same time, it is also intended to abolish the corresponding system with different categories of advice for health advisory agreements in mink farms. Health advice is a key tool for our animal health and animal welfare state in our livestock production, and health advice must remain that way. However, the current system is relatively detailed. The aim of the proposed simplification of rules is to support the motivation of the individual farmer to increase health, in order to increase the welfare of his production. It will therefore in future be the responsibility of the owner of the herd, in cooperation with the herd veterinarian, to obtain further advice when or if the need arises. The draft law also implements the initiative on Salmonella Dublin veterinary advice, which is one of the areas of action in the overall action against Salmonella Dublin, which runs until 2020, and complements the first Salmonella action plan from 2008 as well as the additional initiatives from 2013. The aim is to eradicate Salmonella Dublin in Danish cattle production. Against this background, it is proposed that a new provision be introduced to allow veterinary professional advice to be given to livestock managers on cattle houses which pose a Salmonella Dublin infection risk. The consultants will be veterinary surgeons approved by the FDA for advice on the basis of an assessment of their experience in combating Salmonella Dublin. Finally, I would like to mention that I expect broad support for the legislative proposal, because, as I have said, these are legislative changes, which implement important conciliation initiatives, which are supported by a broad majority. I note that some have not yet been finally resolved, but will await the committee's consideration, and I have great respect for that. With these words, I look forward to this committee dealing with the draft law and thank you for your participation in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130734	There is just one for a brief remark. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130737	Thank you. And at the risk of ending up as a dubious version of Tuesday's analysis, I would like to begin by asking the Minister to name who has said the following and perhaps express his own opinion on the quotation: it is shocking that we are dealing with a minister who has no look at the crisis in Danish agriculture when one can propose something as foolish as that farmers have to bathe every time one leaves the stable. It is as if the Minister knows nothing about the practical everyday life of a Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130818	Yeah, if we're gonna play Tuesday's analysis, we're gonna have to discuss who's beautiful and who's a jar. But I don't know who made this quote. I can almost figure out that when sir... Simon Kollerup puts it this way, it may be one of my party colleagues, but I must be answerable. I think this is an excellent move, so that's what I'm dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130846	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130848	That is fair enough, and it is not because this is going to turn into a quiz, but I still think it was appropriate to take up the matter because he then follows it up with saying: 'It is my clear opinion that we should not introduce this kind of nonsense with regard to the costs of agriculture in the midst of an economic crisis, just as we have no evidence that such a thing has an effect either. In fact, it is the Minister's predecessor in office, Esben Lunde Larsen, who has pronounced it here as a member of the parliament before he himself became a minister. That is why I might just have a question about the government's new approach to the issue of shower curtains and bathing facilities: do you believe today that this has an effect and that there is sufficient evidence of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026130931	I would like to start by saying that this is one of the examples which emphasizes that we sometimes have to be careful about how firm our positions are, since in this context we risk one day being put on the ranks over here. This is the general recommendation around the Chamber because I have also been hit by it sometimes. I would say that what is important to me is that, although it is small measures, we can do some of the criticism that has been made, it is that this is only a little bit • we also have an obligation to do things that make a small difference. I believe that this will make a difference, and I think that we have a common obligation. And that is where I think this will be an important tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026131016	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026131035	I have just a few practical information, because in this debate on the statement we are embarking on an attempt to bring together all the rapporteurs here in the front row, and we need just one minute or two to get things right. I must at least make sure that everyone is properly connected so that we wait a little while to call someone up here for a rapporteur's speech until we have the confidence that the attempt will start as planned and that I also have an overview of which rapporteurs are actually present. In the meantime, it might be good if we could get the water glasses changed up here. I just want to make sure that you rapporteurs who are in place are comfortable with the situation. You nod, you're as safe as you used to be in here in open democracy. And the Minister is also in place, not necessarily safe, I can see, but in place. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026131300	Then I would like to say that the debate has been opened and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026131317	Thank you for that, and also thank you very much to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement that has been sent to Parliament. I think I'm gonna start on such a more general plan. After all, these debates are an opportunity to spread the discussion a little further and take up some of the major themes of this kind, something that you may have a tendency, either consciously or unconsciously, to let disappear in everyday life. In other words, because the European Union is not only an important and crucial project, but it is a project that we wholeheartedly support, and I think that is just important to emphasise. We do so for many different reasons. It is worth noting most of all that, for many, many years, the European Union has been helping to secure a single market that is effective, where we can trade with each other and which has been crucial to creating employment and prosperity around the European countries. We are doing so because we have actually succeeded in creating stability and peace around Europe through the commitment of each other to economic cooperation and political cooperation. But we are doing it most of all because when we look at the sum of all the major challenges we can see around the world, the European Union is currently the best possible tool we have to solve the many major challenges, whether it is the climate crisis or regulation, and also, with our eyes, the taxation of the financial sector, which will otherwise be completely free in the name of greed. And this is, whether it is an increased regulation of an increasingly market-dominant tech sector, in other words, a much more market-dominant sector for digital services, where there is increasingly a lot, very strong and very, very large monopolies, which decide where they are going to pay their taxes and which, as such, carry on a kind of business that we have been without for many, many decades throughout the Western world. We support the European Union because we can see that, on the foreign policy stage, Europe is also better served by being more united. We can look at a whole range of different things. There would not have been a Paris agreement if it had not been the European Union that had pressed for it, nor would there be an effective implementation of the Paris agreement if the European Union did not keep pushing for it. But that does not mean, and it is also very important to say that there are no gigantic challenges. Nor does it mean that we are satisfied with the status quo, and that does not mean at all that we cannot see that there are also major challenges and major problems both in the European Union and in the way the internal market is linked. One of the things we are very concerned about in the Social Democratic Party is that we support the principle of free movement. But we also want freedom of movement to mean fair movement, and for too many years we have been used to seeing more or less passively that social dumping has been possible. When you look at this for the decade of the financial crisis, there is still a very, very large lag behind, where, particularly in the southern European countries, but also around, there are still far too many unemployed. Some countries still have two-digit unemployment rates. In some countries, some 35-40 per cent have still been lost. Youthless. On top of that, it can be seen that among ordinary employees, even in northern Europe, the insecurity is still very, very great. The development of wages has not gone as fast as anywhere else, and some of the reasons for these things in general are that freedom of movement within the internal market has simply not been fair. Some things have happened, as was also mentioned in the Foreign Minister's statement. In particular, some real progress has been made with regard to the Posting of Workers Directive, which has taken a step further. I do not share the Minister's optimistic view that equal pay for the same work has now actually been guaranteed in the same place, but we have come a few steps closer, if not a few steps closer. However, in a large number of sectors, in the transport sector, in the air transport sector, in construction, and in particular in a large number of areas which are very much concerned with the free movement of services. And one of the very, very important priorities of the Social Democratic Party for the development of European cooperation is that we really put an end to social dumping and that there is an imbalance between the fundamental principles of the internal market on the one hand and respect for workers' fundamental rights, wages and working conditions on the other. Another area where we would also like Denmark to play a much more ambitious role is, as far as the very big issue, which I also mentioned a little in the introduction, which is about these new tech monopolies and the fact that they basically do not pay any taxes, either in Europe or for that matter anywhere else. One of the proposals that has come from the European Commission is that perhaps we should try to get together on some kind of digital taxation of some of these companies. It is mentioned in the Foreign Minister's statement, but it is not also mentioned at the same time that the role played by Denmark in the discussions so far, at least, has been in the best sense foot-timing; and in the worst sense, the side of the countries, which are some of the low-tax countries, Ireland and others, has been taken seriously. So it is just to say that we are not satisfied with the state of current European cooperation, but, on the other hand, we cannot see any sense whatsoever in abandoning, breaking down or directly countering and opposing the community we now have, which provides some of the best conditions we have to solve the major problems we now have. In addition, one of the overriding challenges for us here in Denmark and for the rest of the Union right now is the conditions under which Britain will step out. After all, we have many of these discussions almost every week in the Committee on European Affairs. We also have it in the Parliament's Brexit sequel group etc. From our point of view, it is not only regrettable but unfortunate that Britain has chosen to leave the European Union. Firstly, Denmark has lost a close partner, and secondly, on the basis of purely solidarity with those who are the lowest paid and the shortest educated in Britain, I believe that it is they who, unfortunately, will end up paying the highest price for that decision so far. But basically, we also insist that Denmark must, of course, remain within the negotiating community that is in the European Union. And we firmly support the line taken so far by the government that it is most of all Britain that has to tell the rest of the community what it is really about a relationship that you want to have with the European Union in the future. The very last thing I should just mention is that we will hopefully continue to discuss many of these very, very important matters over the next many years. One of the things that we have at least been very disappointed with has been that the opportunity for Brexit to actually sit down and analyse why it was actually that a situation could arise where large parts of the population of a Member State choose to leave the Union was not exploited. What are the imbalances we have in European cooperation today? Is there the degree of democracy that we want? And most of all, in our view, is there fundamental respect for workers' fundamental rights, wages and working conditions? Is the focus in the right places? A number of meetings were held on top of Brexit. I recall that there was a meeting of the Heads of State or Government on a boat in Bratislava. Jean-Claude Juncker has published a White Paper but, in addition, the discussions on how to reform the project, whether you want to reform it in one direction or the other, have largely stalled. Not only do we find this regrettable, but it is unfortunate, because in this way we have also put the seeds for the European Union to end up in new basic existential crises. And we basically believe that one of the things that needs to be resolved is that we must ensure that freedom of movement also becomes fair movement. I think I will leave that to be my speech this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132203	Thank you. There are two inscriptions for short remarks. The first is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132210	Thank you. I think it has to be said that what we are witnessing today from the Social Democratic Party is a gigantic double game, a gigantic double game, nothing less. 'Cause here's what Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen tells us how busy Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is from avoiding social dumping and from defending the interests of Danish employees. And what is going on in the European Parliament? Surely no group more than S&D has counteracted the attempt to index children's cheques, the attempt to reserve Danish daily allowances for people who have actually earned Danish daily allowances, etc. Then Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen will probably say in a moment: we have fought. No, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's colleague Ole Christensen did not even want to take the fight in the Employment Committee where he sits. He said it was a lost battle in advance, so he didn't really want to spend time on it. That's what he said here to Ritzau on June 13, 2018. Honestly, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, if the Social Democratic Party does not even want to fight the battle, is it not lost in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132321	I feel as if I have heard both that speech and that question before, and I think that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth also well knows the answer. There is no party in the Folketing that is as concerned about social dumping as we are and, in fact, is also trying to resolve it. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth can, of course, bring down as many stories from the European Parliament as he likes, and grab a single quote, and I have seen that it is shared diligently sometimes, also by other civil politicians, that is, something Ole Christensen has said. But the truth is that it is true that within the S&D Group we have different views, so we cannot run away from the fact that a number of our party colleagues in the European Parliament have a different view of some of these things. Nor have they, unfortunately for them, the same labour market model as the rest of us. But we're gonna take that fight, and we're gonna take it here in Parliament too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132414	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132415	It just seems that there is a set of social democratic opinions for external use, and then there is another for internal use. On March 12, 2018, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's chairman, a speech in the Financial Times. In that speech, Mrs Mette Frederiksen calls for the European Union to have more influence in the social area; the European Union must be more social union. It is exactly the opposite, as the Social Democratic Party says at home. - Sir... Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen does not tell us why the Social Democracy does not have one line in the Folketing, one line in the Financial Times and one line in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132459	We have one line all the way through, and I really believe that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth will read the post in the Financial Times again. What Mrs Mette Frederiksen says is that one of the problems in the European Union is the lack of social cohesion. She does not advocate that we have a social union with the same social benefits around it. But she calls for a policy to be pursued which can, in fact, also enable employees in particular to demand their rightful share of the productivity growth, the prosperity growth that society is experiencing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132532	The next brief remark is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132536	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for a very good speech. I thought it was exciting to hear the big thoughts about what we have in front of us. What I am thinking about is the statements from the Social Democratic Party about the Danish reservations that they should not be tampered with right now. At the same time, however, I just think that, when we have the slightly larger approach from the rapporteur, there are some areas where cooperation is necessary, which are also a little subject to some of the reservations. I am thinking in particular here when we talk about the role of the European Union in the world and then about the defence reserve. Can the rapporteur say a little more about what the position is with regard to these reservations? One may be something strategic, but I would really like to hear the political position on where it is that you want to go in relation to the reservations we have on the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132627	Thank you. I believe that what you have heard, both from me and from the President of my party regarding the reservations, has actually been an attempt just to be completely honest and to say that now we have had those reservations for 25 years. I still lament that the Danes turned their thumbs down when we asked them if they would abolish large parts of the legal reservation in December 2015, but that is how the Danes placed themselves. In this context, I also remember that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's party was kind of both yes and no or yes, but. Nevertheless, we have found a way to navigate those reservations, including the reservation of law. I think it is only right to say that Danish EU policy is • and it is our line that there must be compelling reasons why we have to issue new referendums to abolish the reservations. I see no serious reason why we should abolish the euro reservation; I see no serious reason why we should abolish the defence reservation right now. I would have liked to do so with the legal reservation, but vice versa I am also so democratically organised that I say that we have just asked the Danes about this, and that is why, in our EU policy, we must try to navigate within the framework that is now in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132745	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132747	What is the rapporteur's position on the future of the European Union, what we are discussing across all the countries right now? There's a big, big public debate going on about this. There is the whole discussion about whether the EU should be in more space, have more speeds when we have these reservations, and for example when it comes to the foreign policy situation or when it comes to justice. How do the Social Democrats and the rapporteur view this discussion in the Danish reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132815	First of all, I believe that if the EU project with as many countries as we have become is to be able to last, then one has to look at an EU that works in several different spaces. Some may work more on one, and some may work a little less on the other. Basically, I think so. The second is in relation to foreign policy. I have also heard that it has, as it were, been mentioned as part of the argument that we should now suddenly abolish the defence reserve. One of the things that I think has placed Denmark in a really difficult situation here quite recently has been the decision on Nord Stream 2. After all, there has not been much help for Denmark in the difficult discussion and difficult decision from either the European Commission or for that matter from Germany or for that matter from France. There it has been the Americans that we have still had to be the closest ally in the difficult decision to try to stand shoulder to shoulder with our Baltic friends.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132912	Mr President, on a brief note, the next item is the debate on the report (Doc. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026132915	Thank you. There is, of course, such a tendency when there are problems that are too big to be taken with them in the nation states, to say: that is something that the European Union must solve. That is why we also sometimes have to assess the reality of whether the European Union is resolving them. And that's why I'd like to ask Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, how realistic the Social Democrats see it as being that the EU must implement a common minimum company tax that comes over, for example. 5%? So, is it something that has some time on earth, and is it something that one can imagine will be implemented within, let's just say, the next 10-15 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133008	Yeah, I think so. Well, sir. Søren Søndergaard is right that it is not something that will be implemented tomorrow and probably not the day after tomorrow. But I don't know if Mr. Søren Søndergaard noted that the German Finance Minister, Olaf Scholz, stated in one of the major German newspapers the other day on the profit tax scandal that one of the answers to this would be to have a common bottom under corporate tax. And if the Germans are starting to think this is a good idea, well, then we're starting to get closer. In other words, whether you like it or not, the Germans are one of the main driving forces for both development and also for the development that we want to stop within the European Union. So I don't think it's as unrealistic as sir. Søren Søndergaard's question expresses itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133050	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133051	The statement by the German Finance Minister confirms what I said, i.e. that it can be shot down to the European Union. 'Cause I didn't hear you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's speech that it was a central demand for the Social Democratic Party to convene an Intergovernmental Conference with the aim of opening the Treaty. The reality is that, unless the Treaty is opened, no base tax limit can be created which is above a certain level of materiality. After all, it is not a competence that the European Union has today; it requires an amendment to the Treaty. That is why I would just like to ask: why is it not a key requirement for social democracy to open the Treaty in order to amend the Treaty so that it can be possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133148	Well, I shouldn't be able to deny that it could be. It is, after all, a question of what kind of working method is used. It is in fact in the last year's time that our party has launched the idea that we should have a common bottom below corporate tax in the European Union. And in the first place we have a discussion between the parties of the Folketing and out in public about whether you think it is a good idea or not that it is a good idea. I can, of course, point around the Chamber to a number of things that do not think this is a very good idea. Whether we want to use the working tool to demand an Intergovernmental Conference to reopen the Treaties, I must neither promise nor reject at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133225	The next brief remark is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133231	Thank you. What got me out of the chair was what the Socialist rapporteur said about the defence reserve. For there I must admit that I deeply, deeply disagree. Although, of course, I agree one hundred per cent that we should not have a referendum before a parliamentary election lurking on the horizon, I do not understand why we should just throw it aside and say that we cannot understand that there are serious reasons for this. In other words, we are dealing with a Russia that acts more and more aggressively, and we have a Trump administration that is pulling more and more from the international stage, and that is actually the image that I thought the Social Democrats agreed with. That is why there is really only one alternative if we want a strong defence perspective, and it is a strengthened European cooperation in which we can ensure that there is also protection of Danish interests. As far as Nord Stream 2 is concerned, where the rapporteur was out to blame for all sorts of strange things, I would say that my picture is that it is not so much the European Commission, but more the Council, which we have to blame, but it is quite a different debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133328	I shall be rebuked that it is more the Council than the Commission to blame. But I really think the rapporteur is saying something interesting. He asks why we cannot have a strong desire for strong defence cooperation in the European Union. Well, we kind of have. I just find it hard to see what the concrete thing is that the defence reserve is preventing both now and for that matter next year that we cannot have it. I have also heard both the rapporteur and many of the rapporteur's fellow party members say that it is really a matter of rewriting where we are going, i.e. the increasing threats from Russia and so on. I think that is just worth having in that debate, and I think it is an important nuance to have it inserted before it is simply said: the Americans are stupid because they have elected a stupid president; the Russians are also stupid. I think it's important to bring along. We do not necessarily get a stronger line towards Russia by abolishing the defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133455	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133457	But that is exactly what we are asking for, namely the debate. There is what I do not understand why the Social Democrat EU rapporteur is just saying: I see no reason at all to have the debate. That's how I understood it. But it may be that it was a gross interpretation, an interpretation that was wrong. Fair enough. I think that we need to debate this precisely. There is a need for us to constantly look at what is of different solutions to it. It is just our answer that if we also want to have a safe Denmark for the next 10 years, for the next 20 years, then we will also have to constantly act in a changing foreign policy picture, which is that the United States is pulling more and more into itself. And that is why we also have to have some strong friends who can help protect a country such as Denmark, which is so close to Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133544	Well, when Joe Biden takes office as president, which I hope will happen in January 2021, it may be that the United States is acting in a different way. Well, we welcome the debate. The only thing I am trying to say, and it is to be quite honest, is that if we are going to ask the Danes to go to the ballot boxes and take a stand on this, we simply have to have something more and something else and some serious, also very much concrete reasons why we should abolish that reservation. This is true both if it is to be possible to convince the Danes, but also if that debate is to make sense at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133628	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no further sign of short remarks, so we will continue in the series of speeches, and I give the floor to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026133642	Thank you, Madam President. In these months, the European Union may have its biggest challenge to date. One Member State has taken the decision to turn its back on the Union and leave it, a courageous and undoubtedly correct decision for the British, but also a decision that has left a European Union of which it is becoming increasingly difficult for Denmark to be a member. Because although it was a good decision for the British eyes, it is also a decision that potentially has far-reaching consequences for Denmark. Britain is one of our biggest trading partners and probably the country in the European Union that we have been most supportive of since we joined the Community together. Britain's resignation thus calls for two questions to be answered. Firstly, how to secure the best possible withdrawal agreement for Denmark for Britain, and secondly, how Denmark should orient itself in an EU without the British. Agriculture & Food has pointed out that in the event of a British exit from the EU without an agreement in the worst case scenario, Danish agriculture may lose up to three quarters of our agricultural exports to the UK. Danish fishermen must find new places to catch their fish, because today 40 per cent are caught. I would also like to point out that, in the case of fishing in British waters, this will not be possible in the event of a non-contractual withdrawal. Denmark has a great deal at stake in relation to the United Kingdom. Denmark needs a comprehensive and solid free trade agreement with the British. According to the Foreign Minister, the EU has offered Great Britain a more ambitious free trade agreement than any other country. I don't know where the Secretary of State gets it. What I have heard is that the EU's chief negotiator, and thus the Member States too, has insisted that the four freedoms cannot be sorted out. If we want to move to the internal market of the European Union, we must accept the free movement of workers and, as we know, the British will not do so for good reasons. I know that the European Union has not offered the British anything concrete. The European Union has asked what the British want, and when the British made their proposals in the form of the so-called Chequer plan, it took two days before Michel Barnier had swept that plan off the table, and perhaps it took Donald Tusk an extra day or two to remember that, but that was also before he reached the same conclusion. We cannot, on the one hand, ask the British to tell them what they want, then reject it without putting anything else in place and, at the same time, boast that they have offered the British an ambitious free trade agreement. The fact is, as the Salzburg and Brussels summits have shown, that we have a real risk of Britain leaving the European Union without an agreement for irreparable damage to Denmark. And why do we do that? Yes, we do that because the EU system's own self-preservation drive prevents an agreement. The EU system does not want an agreement with Britain to encourage other countries to have the idea that they can break away from the EU without having serious consequences for their economy. Instead of presenting a positive project that countries want to take an active part in, the EU presents a scare scenario of what happens if you leave the ship. It testifies to a project that has lost self-esteem. The enthusiastic Europeans no longer believe that through a positive agenda they can convince Europeans of the marvelousness of European cooperation. There's only the fear of what happens if you fall off the edge, left. Poor! While in Bratislava the European Union debated the consequences of the British resignation and claimed that it would finally listen to the sceptical people, the reality has been quite different. Now we are in favour of further intensification of the EU system, intensification of defence cooperation, the development of a common European foreign policy, a single budget for the EU Member States, the commitment of countries to abolish their national currencies, a common finance minister and a common financial policy. And it is just a few of the ambitions presented by Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and French President Emmanuel Macron who, during his recent visit to Denmark, was almost received as a French revolutionary hero. Now Macron is no hero, but he has written a book called the Revolution. There is now little revolution in it unless, for the first time in the history of the world, we have to experience a popular manifestation in favour of surrendering our democratic right of codecision to an unpopular elitist bureaucracy. Fortunately, it is not Emmanuel Macron's mirage and Jean-Claude Juncker's fantasy fetuses that have won the sails of Europe these years. The people around Europe are well in the process of taking back power, as the elections in Austria, Hungary, Italy, Germany, Slovakia and Sweden have shown. The citizens are tired of incompetent politicians hiding behind officials in Brussels and unable to solve the problems that the citizens are demanding, such as: when it comes to the migrant crisis. If you believe the Foreign Minister's statement, the migrant crisis is resolved because fewer people are coming across the Mediterranean. I don't think that's true. There has been no change in principle since 2015. The European Union has not changed its policy towards the lucky hunters from the south. It is still a human right to be able to apply for asylum in Denmark. No matter how weak a basis the request may rest, a treatment must be initiated and should the applicant be refused his or her request, yes, in all probability, to the extent that he or she can be located at all, he or she cannot be returned to his or her country of origin but is referred to as an illegal immigrant in Europe. This cannot continue, and that is why it is now time for the necessary changes to European policy to be made before a new tsunami takes shape and overturns the European coasts. The ambition on the European side is the creation - in actual cancelli-European terms - of so-called landing platforms in North Africa. The only problem is that none of the North African countries want to take part in and land these centres, and that is why we must ask ourselves what Europe is really getting out of increasing the contribution to the southern Member States by 24 per cent. in the long-term budget. We have probably reached the point where the European Union stands at the end of a blind road. Either we can stand by and let our existence and political action be deposited in Turkey, Egypt, Morocco and Libya, or we can take responsibility for the survival of our own continent and culture by doing what is necessary, namely to introduce a blind path for those who come to our shores, in the form of closed centres, from which the possibility of getting out is limited to the ticket to their home country. Yeah, and that's what we're gonna do. The signal will be clear: Europe cannot be made its continent by taking a boat over the Mediterranean. If you do, you never become a European. The storm will lie down, the fortune hunters will give up their business, and yes, perhaps in 3-4 years we will see a single boat again to check whether Europeans are still consistent, as happened in Australia on 27 August 2018, the first boat in 4 years to Australia. The debate on the future of the European Union should be about what kind of Europe we want. In the eyes of the Danish People's Party, it should be a Europe that is guarding the security of its citizens through Europol and accepting that the Member States are doing what is necessary to prevent Europe from being flooded by strangers. The process of so-called violations of the European Union's set of values by Poland and Hungary has been sickening to witness. Poland and Hungary are being punished for taking the view that Europe's borders must be defended. The European Parliament's so-called report on the situation in Hungary is devastating. Neither the European Union nor the European Parliament are right to be democratic over-judges. Member States should not be governed as small regional councils by politically correct Europhile politicians and non-elected officials. Democratic legitimacy exists in one place: in the Member States, not in the European Union, as one parliamentary election after another also shows. The citizens will not show up. To conclude, I would like briefly to mention the issue of the European Union's long-term budget, the so-called multiannual financial framework. The Commission's proposal is unacceptable. While the European Commission wants the Member States to tighten their belts and spend less money, the European Union needs more money, even though the European Union is losing its largest net contributor, Britain. Everyone should be able to tell themselves that this is untenable. The budgets of the net-paying Member States are apparently regarded by the Commission in Brussels as an ever-refilling trough, which can only be eaten by the enjoying Member States. We must get away from that thinking. Tackling must be fed, including in Brussels, and we have a clear expectation that the government will stand firm on this. Those who pay the bill must also decide the music.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134610	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134613	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I'm sorry I got to laugh a little along the way, but I thought there were some very creative language flowers. I have a slightly more fundamental question, because the rapporteur himself said a little about what the debate on the European Union should be. What is the future of the European Union? The rapporteur himself mentions a few things and says that we should do something here, but not there and not there. I would really like to hear the Danish People's Party's response to this as well as the framework of the cooperation. Well, now you praise Brexit, even though we have no idea what it really is. Is it that way? I mean, are we gonna get that resignation because this isn't gonna last, so all countries are gonna have to resign one by one? Or what is the framework of the EU that the Danish People's Party sees as having to solve the elements that the Danish People's Party considers to be the important ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134701	I now heard our excellent Minister for the Environment and Food today at the European Committee of the Regions say that he loved the Common Market. It is a very funny use of that name, i.e. the Common Market. I kind of loved the Common Market too. I think it was a very good idea for an agreement to be reached at European level on free trade, without tariff barriers, and in the old form, it can be said where the European Union was made up of a few countries, but not of Eastern European countries, nor of countries such as Spain and Portugal. At that time, the free movement of labour was not the big problem. It's been since then. However, I think that we should think about what a new European Union should be and say that then a new European Union should be based on what we can all agree on: the possibility of acting freely across borders. Then there are a few other things in which the European Union can also play a role. In terms of security, where, moreover, I believe that the European Union is too small, but where I think Europol can be a good basis, and in relation to environmental standards, which also have a lot to do with trade rules, I also think that the European Union can make a good contribution, but in many other areas the European Union cannot be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134813	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134815	But does that mean goodbye to the European Union we know today with the decision-making powers that lie there, that is, that Denmark should resign from that cooperation and then we can hope that something else can arise that could be this dream of the old common market that was before?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134832	We'll see about that. Personally, I believe that the European Parliament elections we are about to have are more crucial than any other European Parliament elections have been, because this could potentially mean that the old cooperation between S&D and the Christian Democratic EPP group can collapse, so that they cannot simply agree to a path and so largely have a majority or be so well on the way to a majority that it may not matter. I believe that parties reminiscent of the Danish People's Party will have a really good choice, and I believe that this can mean that conditions in the European Union can change in a direction which is what we want, with a greater national right of self-determination.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134911	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026134913	It is quite crucial what exactly the Danish People's Party wants, because we who live in the real world will also have to act on the basis of what opportunities there are. That is why we also need to have something a little more concrete than what happens if the Group of the European People's Party gets a complete majority or something similar in the European Parliament, which I do not think is happening. So what kind of world do you want? Do you want us to resign from the European Union? Do you want it to be solved with a kind of Brexit, just adapted to Danish conditions • with the many challenges it will create? Or what is it you want? Because you can't dream of something that no other country wants. Well, I also dream that Randers will be the capital of Denmark, but that won't happen tomorrow. And that is why we also have to act on the basis of the possibilities that are now available. So let's get back to reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135006	At least it's not sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, who lives in reality. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen is also talking about countries understood as governments; he is not talking about people and what I mean is that the people of Europe have sent a clear signal of what they want. The European people do not want their democracies and the competences of their democracies to be transferred to Brussels. That signal will be crystal clear when we have had the European Parliament elections in May. EPP is going to go back, S&D is going to be wiped out. I do not know whether the ALDE group is working with Macron to ensure that the ALDE group is able to stick to the current allocation of seats, but there is no doubt that parties that have the national central role will have a fantastic choice. This can change the dynamics of the European Union. This may mean that, for the first time, the European Union is moving in the direction that we want, that is, a European Union that leaves more room for the Member States, because that is what is crucial. If you don't get there, I guarantee you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen for the EU to collapse because that is what people want.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135110	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135112	It sounds quite violent that the day after the European Parliament elections the European Union collapses. I do not have exactly the same fear of the future of the European Union following this European Parliament elections. Let us now stay in reality and say that it does not happen either that the European Union breaks down the day after the parliamentary elections or the next day. So what is it that the Danish People's Party wants? I still haven't received an answer. In other words, if there is not complete landslide elections in the European Parliament, then there will be a majority for certain groups and so on. etc., what does the Danish People's Party want?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135146	Now I'm gonna ask you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen is a hypothetical question, and it is, of course, the case with hypothetical questions that they require that there are some things in the future that will be clarified before they can be answered. However, my President has already indicated that he wants a vote on Denmark's relationship with the European Union. I agree that we should have that, but at the same time I have the hope that what will happen with the European Parliament elections is that the conditions for European cooperation can be changed, because the European Parliament can become, to a much greater extent than is now the case, a stop-point for moving forward because there will be a great many parties represented who do not want the European Union to go further along the path that the European Union has been on for decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135227	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135239	Thank you. First of all, I have two complaints to make. One is that you will see that it is not the rapporteur of the Left who is standing up here. Unfortunately, he has other important work to do. So the Folketing must settle for the Left's foreign policy rapporteur instead of in this debate. And the second is that I should like to greet the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber today. But they share the views that I shall now try to illustrate. It is nice to have had such free reins to speak on behalf of two parties. But first I want to stick to what I was actually trying to get answers to from the Danish People's Party, namely what it is that we live in, where we experience a more and more changeable not only the world, but also Europe. If we address Brexit specifically, I would say that we very much share what the Minister for Foreign Affairs and thus the government have written in the statement, namely that the complete clarity of whether it will be a so-called hard Brexit, or whether there will be an agreement at the last moment, of course, means that a large number of people, but especially companies, are really, really nervous. And the government has tried to solve that in various ways. And we support that on the Left side. We support the fact that we are biting on the edge of the table and trying to hold onto some sort of solution with our British friends, but at the same time we also need to make it clear that the bad can happen, namely that this so-called hard Brexit will be. I have noticed that the government will already, or at least soon, present this new website, from which companies and others who are interested in British affairs, and in how to live by a possible hard Brexit, can act. But unlike others, we think that Brexit shows exactly how not to do it. In fact, we think it is quite clear that the ambiguity and, above all, insecurity created by Brexit internally in Britain with falling economic ratios, with a large number of people who do not know whether they can even get food delivered after a possible hard Brexit, is therefore not something to strive for. That is absolutely nothing to strive for. On the other hand, we want us to still have a strong European Union, a European Union in which we can stand together to solve many of the cross-border challenges that there is enough to address. One of the concrete examples is the whole challenge of migration, where, of course, on the one hand it is very, very gratifying that we have now met the challenge, so that the number of migrants coming to Europe has fallen to the 2015 figure. But of course it is still a very, very high figure. And that is why it is still important to hold onto the tracks that have been laid out, for example. This is something we want to support from the Danish side, so that we can get both more border guards and more equipment down there, i.e. ships, aircraft and so on, so that we can continue the necessary and increased fight against the traffickers. But that's not all. The second is that we must also make sure that the whole migrant challenge is stopped before it even starts. And that is why we also support, in parallel with our own increase in relation to all the development policy in Africa in particular, the forces that exist in the European Union, so that the European Union can also step in and strengthen that the migrant challenge is solved where it arises, that is. particularly in African countries. And it shows again that if we stand together on some of these challenges, it's also easier and better and smarter to do some of these things. Then there's the defence reserve. We have, of course, mentioned this a little earlier in the debate, but we on the Left are very, very concerned that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's wish scenario about Joe Biden as President of the United States will not come true in 2 years, but that the Donald Trump administration will continue for the next 6 years, and that the picture drawn by the Trump administration, which is pulling more and more out of the international way of acting, will be intensified and perhaps even reinforced. We are very concerned about that. That is why we think that we also just need to • when, at the same time, we have an increasingly aggressive Russia, we are experiencing a China that acts, as China does now, and at the same time we have all the other challenges with climate, the migrant challenge I mentioned earlier, etc. etc. And we do not want a referendum next week or for that matter next month. I fully agree with the people who say that this requires a huge debate and, above all, a very, very clear and concrete speech to the electorate as to why we might have to remove some of these exceptions. But that debate is also only necessary to take place now, which is why it is a little bit of an attempt to reach out to at least the EU-friendly parties, which are fortunately most of them. Let us take this debate together. Let us now discuss together for the next few years what kind of Europe we want. And there is the fact that we will, at least in advance, welcome it very much if others will also join in this debate. I will conclude by saying that we must be some of the first to say that we are very strong advocates of EU cooperation. Does this mean that everything that is going on in the European Union, we are happy and happy about such hallelujah? No, we are by no means. There are a great many concrete challenges, including internal EU cooperation. We could talk about this at a very long time, and so do we, but absolutely massive benefits are still missing which trump the disadvantages, and therefore we cannot see any alternative to continued close EU cooperation, where we can hopefully solve some of the many challenges together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135934	There are a few brief comments, and that is first Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026135938	Something must have happened to the Conservative People's Party since they changed the EU rapporteur and since they can subscribe to all the views of the Left on European policy, and it is a pity that we will not have the opportunity to debate it on this occasion. Perhaps a question debate should be called for the sole purpose of putting it forward. The short part of the length is that I really would like to ask Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen to the situation that was in June 2018 when the government collected four social failures in relation to indexing child benefit, allowance for cross-border commuters and allowance for migrant workers and finally on the question of leave. After all, it has happened that Austria has actually implemented the indexing that had been announced, so it has taken the matter into its own hands and said: we will not tolerate this, we are going through one way. I would like to know how long it will take us to lose one case after another in this area before the Left chooses to follow the same path that Austria has chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140046	It is very, very clear that we do not want a social union, and that is actually directly in the government base, and that is why we have actively worked against all the various measures that have been taken to create a possible social union. We also feel that we have achieved a large number of good results in the area where we could win this. That is also what I tried to say at the end of my speech, namely that it is not everything that goes a hundred percent in our direction, but then you just have to bite the sour apple and then try to counter the things that are. However, we clearly believe that there are a large number of concrete benefits, including: in relation to social dumping and in relation to it, we must say access, which has been to Danish welfare benefits in a large number of areas, which means that we are still very satisfied with the internal market, although I know that the Danish People's Party is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140135	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140137	I simply ask because, in the field of foreigners, the government has chosen to cooperate with Austria, which we very much welcome in the Danish People's Party. Here we have a specific case where Austria and Denmark have also been united, where Austria chooses to challenge the system simply in recognition of how crazy it is. Could it not then be imagined that the government, if nothing else, tried to get hold of the Austrian Government in order to find out if there is anything we can do here that we can learn from, so that we can avoid some of these things that too many Danes are obviously unreasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140214	I am confident, then, that the government ministers and, above all, the Foreign Minister will address the colleagues they need to address. I have no reason to doubt that. On the contrary, I have full support and confidence that they are ready for that, because they are all competent people, so they will deal with that. Whether it be cooperation with one country or another, I am not going to stand here and decide as rapporteur for foreign policy, because I am confident that the government will do so sensibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140241	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140242	Thank you. I was delighted to see that the whole debate on the European Union in the Left has changed a little from the fact that it was playing with the attitude that now we really have to be critical, to actually dare to be positive. This may, of course, have something to do with the EU rapporteur on the Left, and I am glad that the foreign policy rapporteur is keeping up with it. Something that I often stumble on in relation to the Left, and in particular what our Prime Minister has said, is that the European Union must be big on the big and small on the small things. It has just often made me think: Well big from the perspective of the Danish perspective, or from Poland or from Croatia's perspective? After all, these are not the same challenges that we consider to be great, and part of being in a community is also understanding the great challenges of the others. So how is it to understand the catch phrase, or what to call it, big on the big yes, but big from whose perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140338	Thank you for the question. Well, we're all interested that we all take the benefits we have, and not least all the different competences we have, and pool them together. And, of course, it is important that there are also differences, in other words, where we stand, among other things. As far as social union is concerned, it is not the same as other countries of the European Union have declared their objective. And so there will also have to be room for diversity without it having to be such a slogan contest about one thing or the other. But there has to be, and that is actually what we are trying to say in other words. There must be room for diversity; we must be together in the places where it is most beneficial, but in relation to things where we disagree, there must also be scope for diversity. One example is fiscal policy, where we think it is important that there is absolutely as free rein as possible for the parliaments and governments of each country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140428	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140430	But now that we are in a community that the Union is, and we see in some countries that there are huge problems in relation to social challenges, social tensions, is it not a major challenge that is something that even if it does not have something to do with what is going on within our borders we must be part of solving because we have chosen to be in a community?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140447	If the question is that we were going to go in and ensure more equality, for example. Croatia It's just to take a specific country then the answer is actually no. I do not think that is our task, because there it is that it goes in and becomes fiscal policy in each country, as I see it. And there is the fact that each country must then still have the opportunity to take the various political debates and decisions itself. So it is again that this freedom of diversity comes up, and this has now obviously become my stated objective of EU cooperation. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140517	We thank the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026140525	There is optimism in Europe, you can read in the government statement. Well, I'm not quite sure from what you take that perspective. It goes on to say that the European economy is back on track and the migration crisis has stopped the European economy back on track and the migration crisis has stopped. I mean, it is a way of looking at things, which I think is very good, reflecting where one places oneself in the EU debate and how one looks at the European Union. This is quite right, but the inequality in EU countries is also growing. Inequality is growing. There are still huge amounts of poor people gone. So, the reduction in the number of poor from those there approx. 125 million, who were at one time, go unbelievably slow. And there is massive social dumping, not only in traditionally high-paid European countries, but in virtually all European countries, social dumping is being waged. This is the reality that ordinary people perceive. Is there optimism for them in Europe? Is the European economy back on track? Yes, if you start from the companies, the profits, the rich, the surpluses, then there is. If you're based on ordinary people's lives, there isn't. At the same time, we see how Europe's treasury is a self-table for criminal speculators filling their pockets. And not only that, but we also see how the big banks that are in the EU countries, all the big banks, no, not all, but a number of the big banks, are actively contributing to this self-discounting table for criminal speculators, thus making themselves an accomplice. The tax fraud has not been reduced. And the EU's response has been some very half-hearted attempts; perhaps one could imagine that this was linked to the fact that a number of EU countries are among the largest tax havens in the world. So when the European Union is going to make a blacklist that really condemns these countries, it really does emphasise that, uh, now we have to go against those countries that are making sure to be tax havens, which are thus cheating on our all-out tax revenues, yes, then we start by excluding EU countries. You start by excluding some of the biggest tax fraudsters from getting on the list. Yeah, it's almost so sweet that it's charming! In addition, of course, we are doing so by allowing the possibility of avoiding being on that list to be easy and the possibility of getting off it even easier, and the result is, of course, as it could be predicted. And that's where I just got hold of sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, because we fully share the Social Democrats' desire to have a common bottom under corporate tax, but we have to note that this is one of the things that has been explicitly chosen not to be an EU competence, because they wanted to have full turbo in the internal market, in competition in the internal market, including tax competition, including tax competition. And that is why it is, after all, excluded from the possibility of adopting rules where a common bottom is adopted during the corporate tax it is not an EU competence. This requires a treaty amendment, and I guess that there are a number of countries that will oppose that treaty amendment. But in any case, if there is not an Intergovernmental Conference, it is not something that can be discussed. In relation to the causes of the refugee crisis, when we now mention that the migrant crisis has stopped, we must say that the causes have not been eliminated in any way; they have not even been reduced. In other words, desperation outside Europe's borders is as great as it has always been. And the EU's contribution has mainly been to make agreements with various despots to keep people away from Europe. How can one even get oneself to formulate it with some terms that something has been solved or stopped? Well, it's still gone, but it's just somewhere else. But again: What is the perspective? How do you view the world? Yes, you see it from such a European point of view, looking at the others, and as long as they stay away, there is no longer any problem. I think that the way in which the refugee crisis has been dealt with is a very good example of how weak the European Union really is. For it is not an expression of strength that an agreement is made with Erdogan; it is not an expression of strength that an agreement is made with various Libyan warlords or with Morocco. This is an expression of weakness, because it means handing over the keys to Europe to these despots. And that means, of course, that in every situation one is at the point where one has to bow down if they threaten to use the key they have been given. I must honestly admit that I cannot understand the policy currently being pursued with regard to Erdogan in any other way than the fear that he will terminate this agreement. I think that what characterises the European Union is paralysis in relation to the asylum system, in relation to the debate on the future of the European Union. Even with regard to internal conditions, there is paralysis, that is, the travel circus continues, and the mess in the accounts continues; you cannot do away with it. And even the fight against fraud and fraud within the institutions goes unbelievably slow. I find it incomprehensible that an indictment has been made of one Member, several Members perhaps, of the Danish People's Party in the European Parliament for fraud against the funds. There is an investigation of fraud against the funds and there is no decision on it. It's just something there. When is there a decision on these things? When will it be finished? I think it is a huge problem and an expression of an enormous paralysis. One of the things that is perhaps the worst if we look at Europe is that within the European Union we see a massive strengthening of authoritarian regimes with a lack of respect for minorities. This has, of course, reached an extent where the European Union has then had to raise cases against a number of countries. That is why we believe that a change is needed. There is a need to find a new way of working together in Europe. We have repeatedly advocated what others have also said in the past: a multi-space Europe which allows countries to cooperate on what they agree on and to move on to it, and where they do not agree, it is not the lowest level that will set the agenda. We think this is a sensible way of working together. Since there had been a recent summit, here in October, when nothing had yet been achieved about the asylum system, there was a very harsh criticism from the European Parliament that we must have abolished unanimity; we must be able to impose an asylum system by majority voting. That sounded very clever, and it would probably be possible to do so, but how long would the European Union last if it did so? And it shows the scissors you've got yourself in. Unanimity is required, what does not come, why is the paralysis of action, and if unanimity is abolished, there will be division. There is a need for a different way of working together in Europe, a way which gives much more scope to the coalition of the willing, coalitions of willing people who want to come together to do some things; it may be in the area of refugees, it may be in other areas. It is also reinforced by the decision of Britain to leave the European Union. Surely we need to discuss outside the European Union how we work together in Europe. Does anyone envisage a European crime-fighting Europol where Britain does not have a seat? Well, you can't. And that is why we need to rethink the whole of European construction and work together, where those who want to join the European Union have the opportunity to do so, but where those who want to be outside, yet in a wide range of areas: human rights, the fight against crime, security and so on. Finally, I would just like to say that, as everyone knows, the Enhedslisten is fundamentally opposed to the European Union. We are not because it is cooperation or because it is European, but we are because it is on a political basis that we disagree with, where the market is in front of employees' rights, and that it can only be changed if everyone agrees on it. It prevents countries from taking the lead, for example. on standards about the environment and other things, which means that the one that took the lead effect we once had a government in Denmark that talked about Denmark as the pioneer country disappears, because everyone like to follow the same level. Our wish is a referendum on EU membership. We are also well aware that there is no majority in favour of this, and that is why it does not come. And as long as that is the case, we will, of course, work actively to make the best of the situation, both in the European Committee here in Parliament and after 26 May, also in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141550	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141553	I promise I'll be very brief. I just have two very simple questions for Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard. I do not know whether he noticed that in my rapporteur's speech I was trying to tell you about some of the positive things that were. Often we are accused of always talking only about the negative. But sir... Søren Søndergaard does not share with the Folketing: Is there any developments he thinks are going well in Europe for the present? And the second question is about the referendum that the Enhedslisten wants: what would be recommended to the Danes to vote there?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141626	So, it is quite clear that if the elections are the European Union we know today, then we will call for a vote to be taken in favour of the resignation of the European Union. Well, that is our political line, it is quite obvious. But Enhedslisten is happy to participate, e.g. under a future government, that we send a delegation down to the European Union and try to negotiate a better relationship, a better relationship with the European Union, a relationship which, among other things, is. That means that we can be allowed to take the lead when it comes to the environment and welfare and animal rights and consumer rights and such things. We are happy to do so and that we are allowed to ban social dumping, not especially Denmark, but that countries are allowed to take the lead in those areas. We'd be happy to do that. In relation to the second question: No, I must admit that I find it difficult to see the positive developments in the European Union at the moment. I am fully aware that when we look at some environmental areas and when we look at some climate areas, some positive measures are being taken and we support them. Well, I can see that. However, in relation to the other developments, among others: with the whole authoritarian development of a number of EU Member States, which is a response to the centralisation that has been in the EU, we think that it is going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141737	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141740	It's just a very brief follow-up to this. The reason I asked the question is that, to be honest, it has been difficult to find out what Enhedslisten's point of view really is. There are other Enhedslisten's politicians here in the Danish Parliament who, when you ask them if they want a Dexit, give the answer: that is not the case at present, but we want a referendum, and then we have to look at what we should vote on, and then we will recommend the Danes to vote accordingly. But there I just think it is nice to have a clear speech, whether or not we disagree; that Mr. Søren Søndergaard says that there is a desire for a referendum on the current basis for the withdrawal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141819	It is a bit a question of what you ask, not how you ask the question. Because the Enhedslisten line is perfectly clear, and I am expressing it here. But it is clear that it requires a majority in the Folketing. In other words, if there is not a majority in the Folketing, we will not have that referendum. Therefore, if we are talking about a hypothetical referendum, when there is a majority at some point, what should be the specific theme of the vote? What is the specific alternative? That's very hard for us to say. We don't know that. In this context, it is very interesting what is happening with Britain and what is happening with EEA cooperation in particular. For it can open up some options that make the alternative considerably clearer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141901	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026141917	Thank you for the floor. After all, EU cooperation has intense and less intense periods. And that is often the way it is with cooperation that is going on for many decades. And it has to be said that EU cooperation is currently in a very intense period. Of course, Brexit is the reason for this. It fills a lot in the politicians' calendars, and it fills a lot in the media's news. Together with many others who are present in the room today, I have had the opportunity to follow Brexit closely as a member of the Brexit Sub-Committee jointly set up by the Foreign Policy Group and the European Committee. And it can be said that, on the part of the European Union, the negotiations have progressed according to Barnier's plan and the mandate given to him by the European Council. And from the British side it has been difficult to reach a negotiating position. However, it has succeeded along the way, but even if it succeeds in reaching a withdrawal agreement, and no one can really say whether or not it will succeed, it is far from certain that that agreement will not fall when it goes through the British House of Commons. So this is an intense and exciting time we live in. In connection with the Brexit agreement and also in connection with some of the debates that have taken place, I would like to say that it is, of course, just a personal impression that I certainly have no impression of any anti-British atmosphere at Barnier and in the circle around Barnier, with which we have had several meetings. It is clear that the European Union cannot pluck in rights and duties. But I could almost imagine that if each of us were responsible for something, and some would like to pick rights and duties, we would probably also be rather sceptical about that as a starting point. But I have only heard requests for close cooperation in the future, and that is a wish which I and my party naturally share. This then leads to the whole question of the future of the European Union, which has also been raised by several speakers. For many years there has been tension between the group of northern countries and the group of southern countries. There are different traditions and different models of society, and this has also led to different economic developments, which in most cases have also had to be included in a euro construction, for example. devaluation has not been an option once you are in the euro, although the economic developments that have taken place, perhaps in other circumstances, would have said so. But there are also tensions between a group of Eastern European countries and a group of Western European countries, which I think must be taken very seriously. After all, it has not succeeded in reaching a common position on, for example. the question of the distribution of refugees. And the conflict between the Eastern and Western European countries has increased, and I also believe that it has been a fuel it has not been the only reason, but it has been a fuel for the development that has been seen in, for example. Poland and Hungary towards what Viktor Orbán has called an illiberal democracy. One must be careful not to fall into clichés, but I will still lean on one and say that after all there is nothing so wrong that it is not good for anything. After all, there has also been a concern about many of the things that have succeeded in the European Union. The internal market has succeeded, the customs union, Erasmus cooperation, and I can mention Open Skies cooperation. Of course, in different parties you can have different views about how much to fly, but Open Skies has certainly made it possible to fly to cheap money around Europe, and many more aspects of cooperation can be mentioned. And these are some aspects of the cooperation that many British people have also realised that they are really going to miss in post-EU times, and it is probably also such aspects of the EU that make the EU more popular than for a very long time in the Danish population. One thing that is also exciting, and which is also mentioned in the statement, is the whole work towards a new seven-year financial framework agreement. We hold on to 1%. of bni, while Oettinger has played out with a number which, when he visited us here at Christiansborg, was sometimes 1.08 and sometimes was 1.1. He had such a little different arithmetic models, but here these North-South tensions, as I mentioned earlier, were also in the negotiations. I can mention something like that, as a rule, it is North-West European universities that take back large amounts of funding from the Horizon 2020 programme. Outside the countries of north-west Europe, it is regrettable that this is the case. There I believe that the EU Research Commissioner has done the right thing, namely to say that research appropriations must be allocated meritocratically and not as a form of academic regional development. For the sake of Europe as a whole, I very much hope that the European Union will deal with its crises. I couldn't help but be inspired by any of it, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth said just now, so I was very quick to write it into my speech. It is not that I see such apocalyptic scenes before me in the same way that I thought we heard hints from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, but I have no doubt that the way forward for the European Union is that there will be a different understanding of the concept of border. The three main ideologies here in the Folketing are socialism or social democracy, or whatever to call it, and liberalism and conservatism, and all three ideologies must in some way ask themselves questions about the concept of a border. When you had social studies in high school, you were told that the most important feature of the welfare state was that it was universal, but that is not true. The main feature of the welfare state is that it is national. This, I believe, has a major impact on the way in which the position of the Social Democratic Party develops on the issue of the European Union. In my such liberal corner of political reality one can see that such an old heart case as local self-government also loses substance. If it doesn't somehow get fenced in, it'll be leveled. And it is clear that if you are conservative, you just want to say that traditions come under pressure and are also leveled in a boundless world. So some kind of discussion about borders I don't think you can avoid. Finally, I would like to say something about multilateral cooperation, because it has very strong enemies around the world, but it is a very large cooperation for Denmark. One can almost shudder at the idea of the quality of a Danish-Chinese trade agreement in comparison with the quality of an EU-China agreement. Several of the people present here were in China last year at this time, and one of the things I noticed, at least when we were in China, was one in China living Dane who said that the term win-win is hugely popular among Chinese politicians. But what we were told was that one should be aware that win-win means that one gets a slap on both sides of the head, and then the Chinese have won twice. You have to keep that in mind when you get things explained this way. So it is gratifying that declared multilateralist countries such as the EU countries and Japan are coming closer together. I would like to conclude by saying that EU cooperation is going as well as it can under the given conditions. There are politicians in the lead, and then there are limits to how well this can be. We can quickly agree on that. We are getting as much out of what we are doing for an incredibly wide variety of reasons, also because of the incredibly talented staff in the External Action Service who I do not think anyone has mentioned, so I would certainly like to say a word about them on the way. They're doing a good job. With these comments, I would like to thank you for your statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026142826	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026142829	I was actually going to ask a completely different question from what I am going to ask now. I think I'm saving the second question for the Secretary of State. I have very much respect for Mr. Henrik Dahl's intellectual suitus, and I am sure that Mr. Henrik Dahl has also come to know Kasper Dust Ring's book... Looking back to the future... Henrik Dahl had. And based on that and that, sir. Henrik Dahl has said, about the importance of borders and so on, I would really like to hear Mr. Henrik Dahl's reflection on the schism between the European Union on the one hand and Hungary and Poland on the other, for, as Mr. Henrik Dahl really points out: It is also a question of borders. It is, after all, a question of how deeply one should interfere with what is going on in other Member States and that in the two countries there is broad popular support for the line that is being taken but which clearly does not want to be recognised by Europe. So I'd really like to hear sir. Henrik Dahl's considerations on this subject
ParlaMint-DK_20181026142933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026142935	Thank you for the question about Kasper Dust Ring's book. I have to sit in a panel with Kasper Dust Ring on 10 November, but I haven't read his book yet, although I have been sent it because I am publishing a book myself next week and am busy preparing it. In other words, I myself believe that the way in which the European Union and Poland and Hungary operate is based on problems that need to be resolved, because we cannot do without Poland and Hungary in EU cooperation, and they probably cannot do without us either. I believe that the solution will take time, but there must be a political solution of some kind. But I do not see that there is anything strange about the fact that there are discussions about how strong different political levels should be in relation to each other. After all, these are some discussions we are also familiar with in this country. If the government sometimes arm itself with the fourth state power, which is called KL, then it is also a dispute between different political levels.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026143036	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026143037	It's because I kind of think that Mr. Henrik Dahl is one of the few people in this Chamber who seem to have understood what regime Hungary has. After all, Hungary has a conservative regime. That is why Orbán has spoken in this way about iliberal democracy, which leads some to ask whether anything can be democracy at all if it is iliberal. Yeah, it can. And that is why I would just like to ask the Foreign Minister to listen a little to his rapporteur here, because there is a basic understanding of the problem we are in. There is no doubt that it is devastating for EU cooperation if you refuse to understand the view of democracy that you have in those countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026143124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026143125	One thing I have learned from being a politician here at Christiansborg is that the political mill is painting incredibly slowly, and it will do so at EU level. But as far as I understand, there is movement between countries. This is done according to certain guidelines that have been laid down, but we are also being listened to, as far as I understand. And when you listen long enough, and when you move, a solution will be found. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026143152	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl and he goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Dahl. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026143201	Thank you. When you read the Foreign Minister's statement and indeed also Commission President Juncker's state of the Union speech, you get the impression that the European Union is strong and just needs to be developed at a quiet and steady pace. There are some challenges with Brexit and some countries that slightly challenge our Community rules of play and fundamental rights, but basically everything is going well, we have to understand. And I'm actually having a hard time recognizing that picture. In the alternative, we are currently looking at a European Union with massive challenges on a number of fronts. We see it in relation to tax authorities across Europe who lose billions of tax dollars due to a lack of cooperation on money laundering and fraud. There are the EU's basically hopeless tax lists that exhibit the absence of a actually sustainable strategy to combat tax evasion. And we also see it in perhaps the most important area, namely climate and the environment, where we have failed to bring forward the initiatives and ambitions needed to create an economy that is more in balance with, rather than in competition with, climate, nature, the environment and wildlife. The point is straight ahead. It's only about. 2 weeks ago that the UN climate panel came up with a very serious report, whose conclusions were quite simple: you have to follow the recommendations of science, and otherwise things are really bad. The recommendations are therefore that very ambitious action should be taken, and it is not in ten years' time. In Europe we have a historical responsibility for the climate crisis; we have no doubt about that. However, we do not actually see the political drive and the willingness to change that match the challenges that we face when it comes to the climate crisis. Here we must take responsibility, not only because we have the historical responsibility, but, in fact, because we have an historic opportunity to draw the whole of Europe and the world in a much more sustainable direction. Speaking of sustainable development, I actually miss the fact that we have such an almost ideological dispute with the structures that caused the financial crisis that we saw for approx. Ten years ago. We have not even succeeded in agreeing to split up the largest banks into ordinary banking and a more speculative part. Otherwise, it would be a sustainable bid for how we can prevent taxpayers from again risking the need to provide funding to keep their hands on the gigantic banks, which, as a society, we cannot afford to go bankrupt. In the alternative, we also see a frightening development on the European right, where nationalism flourishes and divides peoples and societies instead of uniting. This is a development that we must be very, very careful about. Unfortunately, this is a development that we have seen in many countries, and this may lead to us seeing freedom being curtailed and fundamental rights being violated. This has been particularly true in relation to the way in which we meet and treat refugees. And here, too, I think that successful European cooperation is conspicuous by its absence. At the same time, we have to recognise that migration and refugees remain a real challenge, even though the pressure on borders has actually fallen and Juncker wants to create a Fortress Europe. So, overall, we are actually seeing the European Union on the side of the Alternative at a huge turnaround time. And here we would like the ambition to do better to be far more prominent, both when we read that statement from the Foreign Minister and when we hear Juncker's state of the Union speech. More of the same is not good enough. As far as we are concerned, the only alternative to the European Union is a better European Union, which is why we actually need to demand something more from each other. The question is not so much how we rethink European cooperation. How are we doing this seriously and working long-lastingly on solutions to the challenges we face in the climate and environmental crisis, on the growing inequality, on the issue of migration and refugees, on democracy and transparency, yes, and on tax evasion? These are the big questions on which it is really crucial for us to work together. That is why I would like to take a few minutes to tell you how the Alternative views this European Union cooperation. We started at the time because we thought there was a lack of a party that put the climate crisis at the top of the political agenda, but also because we wanted to have a break with the established political system on the status quo. We wanted to create a more inclusive and inclusive democracy and reduce the gap between us in society. This is actually the same way we have gone to the challenges of EU policy. We have come together with a number of like-minded parties and movements in a collaboration that is called European Spring. It is that we want to create sustainability on three bottom lines: human, environmental and economic. And we have listened and organised ourselves from below, so it is the movements in all the countries that help to create the political directions and the political issues that we need to take seriously. I can say, if you're going backstage, that it's been a deep, deeply frustrating and very, very hard collaboration. This is a very good picture of the challenges we are facing as the European Union right now. How do I come up with the things that are important to the alternative and then have to understand what are the most important challenges for a party like Razem from Poland? Here you face some other great challenges. How is it that we find a place where we can actually work together and say that here is something we share in being challenged on, and here is something where we actually have to say that it is not just important what is in it for us here at home in Denmark, but no, it is important how we can raise the level across the European Union? It's a clash with these narrow national interests, which is probably gonna be a little heresy in some people's ears in here in the Parliament hall. But we really think it is absolutely crucial that this is how we go to EU cooperation; we cannot always go into it and look at what is in it for ourselves. We sometimes have to go into it and look at what it is like to create better opportunities for Europeans across borders. Of course, we think that sustainable development is essential for all Europeans, a balance between the different bottom lines. We would very much like us to address the issue of European democracy, the European public. How do we create more democracy? How can Parliament have the role that we think it should have, namely to be the ones who can make proposals and not just to deal with what is coming? And then, of course, there are questions about how the European public can see into the areas of power within the European Union, because transparency is something that I know we are really concerned about across many parties in the Folketing. How do we open the doors so that we can keep track of what is happening and interfere in the decision-making processes? We believe that it is really important to look at how we are building this idea of a European public so that we look together over our shoulders. We hope that the forthcoming parliamentary campaign, the great conversation that is going on right now, will actually be able to help. It is a conversation about the future of the European Union, which I have followed with great interest in Denmark and been around very many places, but I have also been to meetings elsewhere in Europe where these fundamental issues have been discussed. I hope that this will really help to get a new conversation started on how to get to another place, how to create a European Union that is greener, more solidarity and much more democratic. We have taken the initiative with our partners in European Spring, in other words European Spring, which we hope will be the hope and initiative that many would like to be involved in, because we need to provide the new answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144042	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144046	The Folketing is a fun place, because you can see how two widely different varieties of a party, the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative, have sprung from the original, which then remains there. It's very funny. Now it is the case that the alternative has the special position that the alternative has a Prime Minister's candidate in Mr. Uffe Elbæk, and it takes so little extra when it is so that you make yourself available. So I would really like to ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist on something. What would the point of paragraph 13, the EU's multiannual financial framework, look like if it were the alternative that had written it; what would that part look like? After all, the government writes here that it wants to maintain the priority of an EU budget corresponding to 1%. of the EU27, etc. Now Mr. Mr Rasmus Nordqvist, that national interests and such things should be overcome, and I am not really surprised that Mr Rasmus Nordqvist is not here. Rasmus Nordqvist says so, but what would it look like about the multiannual financial framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144151	Now I have also said a great many things about the multiannual financial framework, and I say every time: let us start with the content instead of just trying to get something through about the size of it. And I actually think that what would be the content here would be a concrete content with which we think we should start with the budget, and then we would have to see what is to solve, how much money should be spent on it and how we finance it. We are not afraid that the EU budget is rising; we are not afraid to look at how to make own resources for the European Union, so that that way also comes money, so that we get away from talking about net contributors, net contributors, but are more common and more equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144233	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144235	So from the point of view of the alternative, it does not matter that the budget increases in the EU context, nor does it matter that Denmark has to pay a little more or actually a great deal more. It is, if I may say so, the portfolio of tasks that determines how much money is to be carried over to the EU system. I think that is actually very nice to hear, that is to say, understood in the sense that it is clear speech. I just have to ask if there are any limits at all. Might as well be 2%. of bni or 3%. Of bni? There are many ambitions about what the EU should take care of in the alternative, so I think this is a very relevant issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144313	It is clear that a budget will reflect the tasks we put into it, and if we remove tasks that we have to do at national level today, and say that we do this together, we have to put the money into the common fund to solve those tasks. Well, that's self-evident. If we say that we should not be dealing with this at national level, no, we should actually do it together, then we should also add the money to it. But once again, it is important for me to point out that I think it is really important that we also look at own resources for the European Union, so that we get beyond the point of talking about giving more than we get, and some others get more than they give, and what does it do? No, we need to create more equality there, so that we also get to eye with each other in the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144353	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144408	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement. It's an exciting new format we have here. The Radical Left is, after all, an EU-positive party. We see the European Union as a family and, as with the family, it is not really a community out of which we can resign. Geography is, as it is, our destiny is inextricably linked to our neighbours, regardless of whether we choose to deal with it with wars and conflicts. This has been the case in the vast majority of European history or if we try to solve our problems and promote our opportunities in peaceful cooperation. The European Union is therefore the first and only example of this in Europe's history and perhaps even in the world ever. No family works perfectly, and neither does the European one. There are members of the family who do not want to follow the written and unwritten rules and who do not want to contribute to solidarity. There are differences, there are also serious disagreements, because we are different countries with different stories and different wishes and different dreams. However, as in the family, we in the Radical Left are 100% convinced that we would be far, much weaker in the face of all the great challenges of the time if we did not have the European family to trade with. This applies to the climate in which the European Union is still the dominant engine of international action. We would like to see even more action, even more ambition at European level, but imagine if the European Union did not exist, where would we be? The European Union has reduced the number of migrants to Europe by 95 per cent, since the number was highest, through the special agreements with third countries, not least Turkey. These are not perfect agreements, I actually do not think they are very good. The European Union has yet to fulfil several of its obligations to some of the most vulnerable people in the world, but imagine if we had not had the European Union, when the war in Syria and the new mafia traffickers broke open to Europe, what chaos would we have had? What opportunities do we have to influence future developments, prevent new migration crises by creating human living conditions for the whole of Africa and genuine protection of refugees if we do not do so together? Or how would we have dealt with the financial crisis, the new giant tech giants, the cynical speculation in tax havens, etc. etc., if we didn't stand together and work across borders? In short, what would our future look like, our ability to find answers to the great questions of time, if we were not willing to share our sovereignty with each other in order to win sovereignty over the problems we cannot solve separately? This is the case with family, and even if you try to sign up and put yourself outside the door of the common house, as England has done, you will find that the elf is moving with, all the problems of the time are moving with. Basically, we will continue to depend entirely on the decisions taken by the other family within the house, and the only thing we have achieved is not to be able to influence the common solutions. We are unhappy about brexit, which I see as a slow-moving tragedy that is going to harm Britain and Ireland and Denmark and the European Union. We are similarly unhappy about the situation in Poland and Hungary and will stick to our insistence on independent courts, independent media, free debate and, in general, liberal democracy in the classical sense. We want Denmark to be part of the European family. We believe that it will benefit us, we believe, that it would improve Europe if Denmark were fully in the family. We want an active Denmark in Europe, we want an active Europe in the world in the big family, and everyone who dreams of joining his family, we think we are basically dreaming. The question is whether you want to be an active part of the family or not. For the same reason, we will work to ensure that Denmark is closer to the European Union. In the first place, we would like to call on the government to hold a referendum on the defence reserve, which we would very much like to see lifted. We need a stronger, more effective Europe. We must dare to talk about cooperation with all its challenges, and that is a role that we would like to take on in the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144752	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144756	In other words, when I hear the radical rapporteur, it sounds to me as if there is not so much confidence left by the radical rapporteur; so we seem to be unable to do anything ourselves. Now the rapporteur himself referred to the whole migrant crisis. Australia has known to me about 25 million inhabitants, so in a European context it is not a huge country, but they have been able to do everything themselves, they have completely solved the migration conflict by simply making an agreement with some small states that they are taking over the problem; then a boat came here for the first time in four years, and I think it was 28 August. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: well, is there nothing we can do in Denmark ourselves? So, was everything really better done by the European Union? That's one part. The second part of the question is: In what way does the rapporteur actually believe that the European Union has been beneficial to the migrant crisis? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026144903	Thank you. There are several elements to the question. After all, this starts with a claim on Australia's asylum policy, which I think is subject to very serious problems. I don't think it's a model to follow. I think that the European Union, which has a completely different political geography and cultural geography than Australia, has some quite different challenges. As a direct neighbour of some of the large refugee-producing areas, and not least Syria, we clearly need to work together both to prevent the accident from spreading and to deal with these people who now have to flee. So I think that, as part of the European Union, we have much better opportunities to influence, for example. the situation in Syria, than we, Denmark, have alone. And I cannot actually imagine in my wildest imagination how we, as a nation state, Denmark, with 5 million people, could do anything substantial to the conflict in Syria, whereas I can see that we, as part of the European Union, can do quite a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026145002	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026145003	Yes, but now that conflict in Syria is about to end, and Assad has won, and I don't think anyone is in any doubt that he has won, and then we have to find our legs in relation to it. We think it's time to talk to Assad about having some Syrians repatriated, but let's just leave it alone. Now I have just heard the Radical Left repeatedly mention the distribution of asylum seekers across the EU's borders as the only true thing. This is not going to happen, it will never get through, and when something never gets through, we will have to ask whoever wants it to answer what you want. So what exactly is the Radical Left going to do with the foreigners? Is it just back to the happy 1980s with open borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026145047	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026145049	Thank you. I do not really know what it is that I am being put in the mouth by the honourable rapporteur. However, we would, of course, like to try from the radical side to work together to resolve the international problems and conflicts that may exist. And I do not see how the solution to refugee flows and migrant crises is that each country has to deal with it within its own borders alone, so of course we have to look for international solutions. I don't see the alternative. In fact, I think that is a very bad proposal to say that each country has to cope with what they can best do now, not least because it will leave the frontline states in relation to the migrant crises with terrible problems, including Italy and Greece.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026145127	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026145141	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this statement, which, of course, describes an important subject that we are discussing here today. I would like to take as my starting point some of the changes that we are experiencing in these years in the global balance of power. Because I think it is difficult to assess the European Union in isolation from what is happening outside the borders of the European Union. There is something of the very essence that we have seen, the American foreign policy after the present President came to, with what he calls America First, a United States that renounces participation in international agreements, in multilateralism, withdraws from the Paris Agreement, withdraws from the Iran Agreement, the INF Agreement, which has recently been denounced with the consequence that nuclear disarmament can get under way again, in other words, an American President who isolates the United States from the outside world of which the United States has so far been a very important part, and which also challenges NATO cooperation in a large number of areas. We see, for example, that in connection with this. China is very much on the way forward, maneuvering and doing what China can to fill the gap left by the United States. This is true for example. Iran. The fact that the United States wants to reintroduce sanctions against Iran is causing great difficulties for the Iranian economy. Where does Iran go? Of course to China. Will China help? Of course, China will refuse to influence Iran, Pakistan, for example, a number of African countries. That is to say, we see a China on the way forward with, if I may say so, economic diplomacy with plenty of money and plenty of investment, but also with the accompanying demands for political influence. We see a Russia that has used the opportunity to expand the Russian sphere of interest in the Middle East and around the Syria conflict. Where Russia had no influence at all six or seven years ago, it is today Russia that is driving with the ball with Iran and Turkey. Europe, the United States, the West is pretty much out of the game down there. In other words, a vacuum has arisen after the policy of the American Government, which others are trying to fill, and we will ask ourselves the question: is it in our interest that it is a China that does not have democracy, human rights and international law on the agenda? Is it Russia, too, that is not particularly concerned about international agreements being the basis for cooperation? Is it the kind of country that has to fill that void? No, I don't think that's in our interest. Who's it gonna be? Europe must, of course, try to do so. In other words, there is a huge task for Europe to go in and then have the role globally that is needed to fill today with what is happening with American, Chinese and Russian policies respectively. Can the European Union today ask? The answer is that the European Union can only partially, at least not enough, and there are major problems in fulfilling that role today. There are a large number of internal discussions which take up all the forces of the Brexit vote in Britain, where all the effort is being put into obtaining a divorce agreement on land in relation to Great Britain; there is the whole migrant and refugee challenge, where, if I may say so, it is a common European problem. The fact that there are open borders within the European Union and we have a common obligation to deal with that problem, because we have cooperation, a community, it is not sustainable that those countries that happen to be closest to the areas where migrants and refugees come from should bear the whole burden; there must be solidarity arrangements there, and we need to discuss how we can deal with that. There are countries and movements that challenge the democratic legitimacy of which the European Union is based, where undemocratic movements have gained a great deal of influence and where democratic legitimacy is challenged. Then there are plenty and lots of problems facing the European Union. Does this mean that the European Union is falling apart, as there are some who, like the indications, can be the consequence? I think that is the wrong conclusion. Because there is, if I may say so, a lot of daily business that still has to be looked after and still goes away. There is a machine running around the internal market, about various harmonisations, about internal trade policy in the EU, agricultural policy, etc. etc. This means that as much prestige has been built into getting, if I may say so, the basics of what we had when we started the European Union to function as well as possible, not that it is easy, but it is still running. And if we look at how the European Union is actually acting, that is not good enough, but it is still far more responsible in relation to other countries, for example climate policy. The European Union was, without comparison, the player who, at the Paris Conference, had the most progressive policy and played the most progressive role, and on environmental policy as a whole, the European Union is far, far ahead of most other players in the world. Again to return to e.g. The Iran agreement then does not have many foreign policy successes, but the Iran agreement is actually one of them. The European Union has a vital role to play in getting that agreement in place, and that is why, I think, it is very right that it has been said to the United States that it is not denounced by the European Union. The problem then is that the United States will punish the companies that are still trading with Iran, and then we are not strong enough to resist the American pressure there, which is quite, quite a pity. But intentions are still missing and things are still working around the whole Brexit discussion; British diplomacy is experts in splitting up, they are very tactically skilled, strategically skilled and have done what they could to divide the European countries around the Brexit negotiations, but they have not actually succeeded. In fact, we have kept to the premise that there must be a fair agreement and that it must be with duties and rights. I think that is quite important in itself that this has been the case. But there are plenty of things that don't work well enough. I also think we should bear in mind that in many ways the European Union is not something that is finished; it is not a country itself that has things that change all the time and where there are problems. We also have that here in Denmark, Denmark is not a finished product, if I may say so, we are constantly changing what is happening, Denmark is constantly evolving, the population is evolving, the political development, new challenges, new laws, etc., and that is also the case in European cooperation: it is not a finished project. In this sense, the European Union is as dynamic as the Member States are. What this is all about is whether or not we want to influence that development, and in some cases we may think that it might be sensible to be outside the scope of yes, it may be in some cases that we say no. Of course, you have to be able to say no and in other cases say yes. That must then be the last thing I say: I hope that we can come to the conclusion that EU policy will be like a normal Danish policy. This means that we take a political position on the various proposals; that the European Union will play the same role as Danish politics; that we take a position on positions that we share, as Hørup said, and that this will also be the way we view EU policy. This means, of course, that even if you are a strong supporter of EU cooperation, you can say no to a proposal from the European Union, of course you can, or vice versa, if you are very opposed to the European Union, that you can say yes. For, like everything else in the world, things are not black and white within the European Union. Well, it's not everything that's bad, is it, sir? Søren Søndergaard or Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth? There are also some good things sometimes. There are some who think that there are not so many good things, but then you have to balance that. But as with everything else, there are good and bad things, and it is a little important to me, just as to get an assessment where it is, we should place it in relation to our political perception, as well as we are discussing Danish internal affairs. And I hope that will be the result of the European debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150211	First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150213	It was, of course, a speech that was mostly about external relations, that is to say the European Union's foreign policy, and I will actually allow myself to move in that area too, when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen now moves so much within it. To me, it seems to me, and it may be a misconception... it seems a little like it, sir. Holger K. Nielsen is out in, is that Europe must be such a new superpower, in other words, to actually turn the time back to the 1800s and the beginning of the 1900s, where it was then not an unison Europe, but several different great powers within Europe, which played a major role in different countries of the third world, had colonised etc. I just need to understand if that's right, because then you have to assume that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is also in favour of a common European foreign policy. But I really just want to know if that's the way it is, sir. Holger K. Nielsen sees the future of the EU. I think that this is a problem, given the fact that we have to decide on reality, and we are becoming fewer and fewer Europeans in relation to the rest of the world, and so we will, in nominal terms, also have a smaller role to play. I'd like to hear Mr. Holger K. Nielsen about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150321	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150324	As far as economic strength is concerned, the European Union is, of course, the world's strongest economic bloc, and there I think it is reasonable to discuss whether it could not be translated into a political force. Going back to the beginning of the 20th century makes no sense in this context, because we are living under quite different conditions today. What I am saying is that in relation to China, which is very much on the way forward, very much on the way forward, and a United States which is completely indifferent to international agreements, is it not reasonable that we should discuss whether Europe should go in there more? What's a superpower? I do not know what a superpower is, but at least something with a stronger voice and with stronger instruments that could affect global development. I think we have something to give from the European side. We're built on legal principles. Legal principles that are the basis of EU cooperation, international law, international law, human rights play a major role in Europe, much more than in China, much more than in Russia, and unfortunately also much more than in the United States at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150435	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150437	Well, I think that sir... Holger K. Nielsen and I can agree so far that China is a huge problem. We can agree on that. Then you can always wonder why Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also on that front leads such a relatively harsh rhetoric towards an American administration which is actually trying to challenge China's hegemony in world trade. But let it go. I just want to know something: has the Socialist People's Party become a supporter of such a genuine common foreign policy where there is no room for individual Member States to have their own voice? Is it the case that the Foreign Minister we will have next year after the European Parliament elections to replace Mogherini is a Foreign Minister who must be able to speak on behalf of everyone without a Mr. Anders Samuelsen, who says otherwise?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150523	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150525	No, that's not what's in the pipeline, is it? But I hope that Europe will be able to speak more with one voice. I think it is important for Europe to formulate itself politically with the weight behind the whole of Europe, which is stronger than Germany, France, Denmark and Italy individually. That is the strength I think it is important to have, and I think that we should make every effort on the Danish side to ensure that this can be the result.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150556	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150558	Now I know that it is common among EU supporters to refer to the European Union as Europe, but, in other words, when Britain comes out, you will probably have to refrain from doing so. But the question is when Mr. Holger K. Nielsen addresses me directly, if not Mr. Holger K. Nielsen knocks in an open door. Well, it may well be that sir... Holger K. Nielsen, when he was an EU opponent, sat with his party and said no to everything that had to do with the EU; but it has never been this way for us in the Enhedslisten, who are EU opponents. We have been sitting in the European Committee for 25 years and taking a position on the exact content of the cases. That is exactly why we want to go down to the European Parliament from after the elections, where we will take a position on the content of the cases. One can, of course, be against the construction of the European Union, because it is considered to be an unfair area where the Treaties benefit the market rather than employees. Is it not true that that door has at least been opened?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150702	I don't know. I'm glad to hear that, sir. Søren Søndergaard will recognise that there are also good things about the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150709	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150711	Otherwise, we would say no to all mandates from the government, except for those mandates where the government said no to anything from the European Union. But it happens that we say yes to mandates. So in the end, we're gonna have a little quiz: Holger K. Nielsen guess which person among the Danes in the European Parliament I most often voted with when I was a Member of the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150736	So challenged, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150739	Oh, I think I can guess. I don't remember, but I have a feeling, but I assume that Mr. Søren Søndergaard can give me the results afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150754	So it stays between the two gentlemen. So we say thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen and goes on to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026150812	As you know, Greenland is not a member of the European Union, in fact we left before the British left the Community, as it was then called, in 1985. And then you can ask yourself the question: why is it so important that we interfere in this debate? It is because Greenland is a so-called OCT country. And to those who do not quite know what the OCT stands for, I can say that it means overseas countries and territories. And Greenland's role as an OCT country is based on the relationship with Denmark and the Kingdom of Denmark, which is why Inuit Ataqatigiit in the Danish Parliament would like to comment on the Foreign Minister's statement on the development of EU cooperation. When you read the statement, it is clear that Brexit is the overriding issue when we talk about the European Union. The withdrawal of Britons from the European Union is of great importance to the remaining 27 Member States, but it is also very important in relation to trade agreements with the British in the future. This is also true in relation to Greenland, particularly in the fisheries sector, but that is not what I shall discuss in my rapporteur's speech today. It is the case that in 2016 the EU came up with their Arctic policy, and the EU also wants to have an observer seat in the Arctic Council, where Greenland and Denmark play a very central role. We also know that there have been cases that have been more damaging to Greenland in the EU context, namely the ban on the sale of sealskins in the EU, which has had a very negative impact on Greenland's sales of sealskins and has scratched the EU's reputation in Greenland. Although Greenland is outside the EU, however, there are predominantly close and good relations with the EU on the part of Greenland. And in 2015, Mr. Kim Kielsen, then Prime Minister Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, a joint declaration between Greenland, Denmark and the European Union. And the spirit of that joint declaration was that the EU wants to develop and extend relations with Greenland. Unfortunately, with the European Union's multiannual financial framework, which has been put forward not so long ago, we see that a breach of that joint declaration has been planned, and we would like to put a few words on that by the IA. Because, following the Joint Declaration of 2015, a partnership agreement, the so-called Greenland Instrument, has been renewed and a fisheries agreement with the European Union has also been renewed. These two declarations are intended to be concluded at the same time and to be seen in their entirety because they constitute the overall cooperation between Greenland and the European Union. At times it can be said, with Greenlandic spectacles, that the fisheries agreement has had a negative impact on Greenland's economy, and in other contexts it has had a more positive impact on Greenland's economy. The reason I mention this is that it is important to emphasise that the cooperation between the European Union and Greenland is of mutual benefit and that we need to see these two agreements in their entirety. With what has been proposed by the European Union, we are breaking it because we have set up a smaller budget in relation to the partnership agreement. The partnership agreement, which has been concluded, is a very important area which is supported around Greenland, because it is concrete efforts to raise the level of education in Greenland. This is an area on which we in Greenland spend a lot of time, money and political energy, because it has a huge impact on our young people, but also on Greenland's future. In concrete terms, the partnership agreement means a grant, a contribution, you might say, from the European Union of 1.6 billion. kr. over an 8-year period to Greenland and the education area in Greenland. We all know the challenges in the field of education in Greenland, so I will not spend a lot of time mentioning that, but just emphasise that the contribution that the European Union is making is very welcome in relation to the need that we have in Greenland. The multiannual financial framework, which the European Union has put forward for discussion in the European Parliament and which will apply from 2021-2027, provides for a very significant saving in relation to the EU's current partnership agreement with Greenland. The savings amount to a total of 165 million. kr. Throughout the period, which we from Inuit Ataqatigiits side in the Folketing believe is a disaster for the Greenlandic education system. Instead, the EU will distribute this 165 million. kr. In other words, we are going to fight for this money. And my point is that it doesn't just have to be Greenland who feels cheated with the budget that has been set up, or the framework that has been set up, I think that Denmark should feel cheated as well. That is why I would appeal to Parliament, the government and also the Danish Members of the European Parliament to take up this matter, because it is extremely important for all of us in relation to the declaration of intent, the joint declaration which was made earlier and which Denmark has also signed, to ensure that the intention that was there is, of course, that we have to live up to. We should not weaken the relationship there, but rather we should develop and expand the relationship between Greenland and the European Union in the future as well. With these comments, I would therefore like to put a specific question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs as to whether the government intends to take the initiative to maintain the current allocation for the partnership agreement between Greenland, Denmark and the European Union. Moreover, it can be said that it is a majority in the Folketing that has supported this joint declaration, so it is also a political wish, both from Greenland and from Denmark, also here in the Folketing, that we must ensure that the European Union contributes to the area of education in Greenland. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026151432	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026151435	I would like to thank the rapporteur for raising this issue, because it is actually also symptomatic of some of the discussions that are taking place in the multiannual financial framework, which is, of course, that we try to simplify and make more flexibility in the budget, but it has also combined a lot of different instruments, so there are these uncertainties about what we want. And that is something that the rapporteur points out, but which is also happening in a number of other areas, and where we in Denmark really have to stand up for both the intentions we have about partnership agreements between Denmark, Greenland and the European Union, but also in the area of human rights and a number of other areas with which the budget is working.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026151516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026151518	Thank you very much for your comment. I totally agree. I know that there is a great deal to be fought for, including from the Danish side, but I also appeal to Members and the government in particular to be aware that there is, in fact, a very specific point where you do not actually take care of your own interests, because you yourself helped to make this joint declaration at the time. But thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026151543	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have finished the rapporteur's series and that is why it is now the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026151600	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good and exciting debate at a time that is challenging for the European Union. There is no doubt about that. But somehow it is always a challenging time for the European Union. When I was due to run for office in the European Parliament in 2004, I wrote a small discussion book on the subject: "The way to a better Europe'. And when I reread it now and here, I can see that it was also a turnaround time at that time. There we were faced with the situation with all the new countries that came in. Could it even be done? Would it all burst together? Would it end in a huge collapse? It didn't. Nor has it ended up in a situation that is completely ideal in every way, as one of the rapporteurs said. I also believe that it was my own rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance who said that when politicians are involved, it will never be quite perfect. And I guess that's true. But it's not bad. It's not bad. There are clearly challenges and some of them have also been mentioned by many of the rapporteurs at this stage in today's debate. Brexit is an example, the most topical, of course. And, as you know, last week the European Council met, but unfortunately no agreement could be reached at that time on a final withdrawal agreement, and that was not entirely expected either. We are working hard to ensure that an withdrawal agreement can be concluded, but these are, of course, complicated negotiations. However, the European Union of 27 is ready to reach an agreement and to hold an extraordinary summit where a final agreement can be reached if it comes within reach. I hope, of course, that will happen in the near future. But, of course, there is still a gap, and we have to say so openly and honestly, a risk that Britain will say goodbye to the European Union without an agreement, and then we will again have a new challenge. That risk takes the government seriously, which is why we are also preparing for a no deal scenario. Brexit has, I believe, been an eye-opener for Europeans and for Europe's political leaders in many ways. Brexit has, in fact, brought to light some of the benefits of European cooperation better and stronger, including some of the benefits that many might have started to take for granted, for example. the internal market. I think that's kind of good. I also believe that, from now on, there will be a discussion that is stronger than in the past, about how to focus on what is relevant to citizens, and then not to spread beyond everything else, but to go into more depth with the things that actually make sense and where European cooperation has shown a strength. In relation to economic and budgetary policy, we are also faced with some milestones in the coming years. A new 7-year budget for the European Union is to be adopted from 2021 to 2027, and these are important negotiations. The government is doing what it can to get a modern and effective budget of 1%. of the 27 EU Member States, with a focus on giving priority to those areas where the EU brings the greatest added value to its citizens and businesses. The EU countries together make up the world's absolute largest economy. The single market is the world's most developed free trade area with great value for the Danish economy. Last week, at the latest, I attended the Asia-Europe Summit, and if you put Asia and Europe together, we will be in charge of 60%. of the world's population and 65% of the world's population. of the world's bni. This tells us a little about the fact that we have some alliance opportunities and opportunities to work elsewhere when we are experiencing a recovery time, as we are doing at the moment, with the challenges that come from the United States. One of the most important areas of European cooperation is trade policy. And it has been a turbulent year, precisely because of a threatening trade war with the United States. Fortunately, however, it has been temporarily averted. Free trade contributes to peace and stability, it helps to pull people out of poverty, and that is good. I am therefore pleased with the progress that has been made in the EU's free trade agreements with countries such as the United States. Japan. The issue of migration has also been addressed in today's debate. In the area of migration, EU action has also made a difference. EU agreements and cooperation with countries of origin and transit have had a positive effect on migration, and the overall figure for irregular migrants and refugees is now at the same level as before 2015. Of course we shouldn't just sit back. There will still be challenges, and we must address them. Then there is security and the fight against terrorism, where, in recent years, the European Union has significantly strengthened cooperation to address the threats to our security. This has been done by means of concrete new initiatives such as: The European Defence Fund and the establishment of permanent structured defence cooperation, PESCO, among 25 Member States. As a result of the defence reserve, Denmark cannot participate in PESCO, just as we are prevented from contributing to the EU's military stabilisation efforts in and around Europe. Personally, and certainly on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, I can say that we are sorry. We would like to see the defence reserve disappear, but that is the reality and, of course, it must be respected. However, we participate in the defence fund and make a significant contribution to the EU's civilian missions in the common defence and security policy. Denmark also warmly supports the Commission's cyber package and the EU sanctions regime on chemical weapons as well as the enhanced EU-NATO cooperation. With regard to external relations, the European Union is, of course, a crucial platform for Denmark when it comes to safeguarding our interests internationally. Danish values and Danish economy urgently need a rule-based international order. However, we are currently seeing the international rule-based order challenged in a number of areas through Russia's aggressive behaviour, a more withdrawn US on the global stage and China's ambition to play a larger and more active international role. There is no easy answer to these challenges, but when the EU speaks with one voice and gives all the tools in the toolbox, then we in Europe can make a real difference. For example, it has. in relation to Russia and in the international work to combat climate change. And climate change affects all of us. It is a global issue and a global responsibility to seek a solution, a global responsibility combined with personal responsibility. The EU is a champion of ambitious implementation of the Paris Agreement and has a key role regionally as well as internationally. We in the European Union are on the ambitious team in relation to CO2 EU cooperation is central to Denmark's security and prosperity. That's basically what it is. With EU cooperation, Denmark is stronger than we do alone. The possibilities, such as: the internal market and the European Union's free trade agreements create, we can make use of when we are in this cooperation, we cannot do that alone. Through our community of values about democracy, freedoms, international rule-based cooperation, we in the European Union are in a better position to promote and fight for these values internationally. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152352	There is one more brief comment at the moment. Now there are two. Mr President, first of all I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152401	Thank you. After all, it is now almost two years since the Liberal Alliance joined the government. Unlike many of my fellow party members, I actually received the news with a certain amount of joy... perhaps almost enthusiasm... because I had just experienced that the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party had had such a good working relationship with regard to the rejection of the reservation. Then we stand here two years later, and I just have to say that I find it so infinitely difficult to see where the Liberal Alliance has actually influenced EU policy in a more sceptical direction. I am well aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs received a yes cap in the accession gift from the former Foreign Minister, but I did not think it would be taken as seriously as it is. However, it may be that I am wrong, so perhaps I could just ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to mention such 3-4 specific cases where the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that the government has been drawn in a more EU-sceptic direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152511	I do not know whether we have ever promised to draw anything in a more EU-sceptic direction. We feel the same way about the European Union as we do in the discussion between welfare societies and welfare states, namely that we are not in favour of a welfare state, but that we are in favour of a welfare society that focuses on core services. This is also the case with European cooperation. But there are things where the government has changed position compared to where it was earlier. For example: have we said openly and frankly now that we do not believe it makes any sense to go the way that very EU-positive people may think, namely that Turkey should be included in the European Union. We have said this clearly and clearly: these negotiations must be stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152553	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152558	I take my hat off and say that if that is what the Liberal Alliance can boast of after two years in relation to EU skepticism, then it is as it is. But I just have to say that I had hoped for more, I know that the Foreign Minister does not believe that the Liberal Alliance is EU skeptical, but I just remember that before the Foreign Minister joined as Foreign Minister, the Foreign Minister, who was not Foreign Minister at the time, was told that the Liberal Alliance was even more EU-sceptic than the Danish People's Party, and this could be seen from the actual vote. That's why I had such high expectations and was so upset that they suffered shipwreck.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152642	It's always boring to disappoint people. Perhaps it is more difficult when you disappoint false expectations or self-set expectations for others; then you have promised nothing in advance that you should live up to. But that is why it can still be disappointing if you do not do so. I think, in fact, that, for example. some of the work the government is doing to focus on how we implement the legislation, so that we do not necessarily just overimplement, i.e. have too much of the jahat on the • now to use the image • than necessary. This is a good example of the government's policy being focused on ensuring that what we are doing in European cooperation is that we get a lot of good things out of it on behalf of the Danes, but not going to stand by ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152731	The next brief remark is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152736	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for the words of the Foreign Minister. I do not think, however, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised the question I asked, that is to say, whether the government intends to do anything about defending both Danish and Greenlandic interests in relation to the multi-annual financial framework that has been proposed, including more specifically in relation to the partnership agreement. Perhaps I could ask in a slightly different way, a little more openly: what can the government actually do to influence the European Union? There is no doubt that the Danish Members of the European Parliament have a very important role to play in relation to a future budget for the European Union. However, what can the government do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152818	I am fully aware of the instrument that has been talked about, and I assume that this is the same thing we are talking about, because it is a very important instrument for Greenland, not least the Greenlandic education sector that the questioner mentioned. The government has therefore worked closely with Greenland to ensure the best possible result for Greenland in view of the difficult negotiating situation. In the European Commission's legislative proposals concerning inter alia: EU support for Greenland, which was published on 14 June, is being set up for a sensible allocation to Greenland, not least in view of the budgetary challenges posed by brexit and the new priorities of the European Union. Now we look forward to opening negotiations in the Council, where we will continue to work hard to ensure a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152901	Thank you. The questioner does not wish to speak on a second brief note? No. That means that no one else has asked for the floor and then the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181026152916	Before closing the sitting, I have the following notification: the Minister of Justice has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement of 26 October 2018 on the status of Danish police in relation to Europol. R 4). Copies of the statement will be distributed and will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 13 November 2018. There is no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday, 1 November 2018, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
