ParlaMint-DK_20180424130005	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Jens Joel (S), Mikkel Dencker (DF), Thomase Danielse (V), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Christian Poll (ALT), Ida Auken (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Orla Østerby (KF): Request no. F 32 (What can the Minister say about the Government's future energy policy initiatives in the light of the energy policy statement?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130052	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130113	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 51 by Karina Due (DF), Erling Bonnesen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is closed. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V 51 adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130223	No amendments have been tabled. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130300	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130332	No amendments have been tabled. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130352	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130426	No amendments have been tabled. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130446	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130513	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130554	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130627	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130647	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, SF and RV), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The division of the bill has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2-5, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130740	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130806	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130833	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424130854	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL and ALT) on the sharing of the bill and a vote can be taken. The vote is closed. in favour of 14 (EL and ALT), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Sharing of the bill has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2-5 of the same minority lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6-8, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131010	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131032	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution on the phasing out of the Ankara Agreement of 1966 on an association agreement between the EU and Turkey. The EU-Turkey Association Agreement was signed in 1963 and forms the basis of the customs union that the EU has had with Turkey since 1996. In 1970, an additional protocol was signed which has resulted in the abolition of customs tariffs and quotas on industrial products since then. The EU immediately settled the tariffs, while Turkey did so over the next 22 years, according to the European Commission in a satisfactory manner. In 1996, the EU-Turkey Customs Union came into force. At the same time, the EU-Turkey Association Council confirmed the liberalisation of the trade regime for all industrial and processed food products between the EU and Turkey, with the exception of certain agricultural products. The customs union also required Turkey to adapt to EU external customs tariffs, trade policy, competition policy, rules on intellectual property rights and parts of EU technical legislation. According to the Commission, Turkey has fulfilled most of the conditions of the customs union. However, Turkey has not fulfilled all the conditions and has also introduced certain technical barriers to trade. This only helps to underline the need for modernisation of the customs union, including more effective enforcement of commitments. That is why the government supports such modernisation. However, the EU's internal negotiations are still at the moment due to the complexity of its relations with Turkey. The EU-Turkey Customs Union has contributed to improving the framework conditions for EU-Turkey trade and has strengthened mutual investment and trade. The customs union has clearly improved the access of Danish exporting companies to the large and growing Turkish market. Turkey is a market with 78 million consumers, and for many years Turkey has experienced significant economic growth with real growth of around 3%. in 2016 and 5%; in 2017. This is also reflected in the actual trade figures. Danish exports of goods to Turkey increased from just over 4 billion. kr. in 2012 to 6 billion. kr. In 2016, i.e. an increase of approx. 50% Today, the EU is Turkey's largest trading partner, while Turkey is the EU's fifth largest trading partner, and there is further potential to strengthen trade with Turkey by modernising the customs union. It is also something that Danish industry is asking for. So when it comes to strengthening the trade relationship, that is to say upgrading the old customs union to a modern and future-proof agreement with the same elements as the other new and modern trade agreements of the European Union, for example. with Canada and South Korea, the government agrees with the proposers' starting point. As pointed out in the comments on the motion for a resolution, the Association Agreement does not only cover trade relations. In 1970, the EU and Turkey concluded an additional protocol and financial protocol to the Ankara Agreement. It concerns in particular: Turkish workers' rights in the EU. This is a matter for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. I must therefore refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration on those aspects. In general, I think it is important to separate things. One thing is our trade relations with Turkey, and another is our EU membership. There has long been agreement in the Folketing on the assessment of the situation in Turkey. On several occasions we have discussed the negative developments and the many actions of the Turkish authorities, which have led to a clear deterioration of democracy and human rights in the country, and the government, like the Danish People's Party, has come to the conclusion that it no longer makes sense to see Turkey as a future member of the European Union. That is why, as you know, the government's position is that EU accession negotiations with Turkey should be stopped. This does not mean, however, that we should interrupt our trade relations with Turkey. Both Denmark and Turkey benefit from trade, and the close economic relations between the EU and Turkey are a good basis for a robust dialogue, among others. human rights. Not least for this reason, the government continues to support the EU Association Agreement with Turkey. The agreement supports closer cooperation, closer relations and more trade with Turkey. It is important that we also have a close and constructive relationship in the future with the Turkish Government and the Turkish people. This applies not least to the half of the population who do not support the current government's course. Then we must remember that, in addition to the economic benefits that our trade with Turkey brings, Turkey is also an important partner and strategic ally in NATO's cooperation in the fight against ISIL, in the fight against terrorism and, above all, in the management of migratory flows in the eastern Mediterranean. All in all, the association agreement and the customs union between the European Union and Turkey serve us well. I therefore call, on behalf of the government, for the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party to be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131557	Thank you. And there are brief remarks. The first question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131603	With one exception, it was a review of the trade aspects of this agreement. And that is not primarily what the Danish People's Party opposes. The Danish People's Party opposes the mixing of a trade agreement with conditions that give you better opportunities as a Turkish employee living in Denmark to have family reunification than if you were Thai or Filipino or anything else. In our best opinion, that is not right. And the prerequisite for getting rid of this discrimination is the abolition of this agreement and the establishment of a new agreement. So I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether it was not really more appropriate to make a new trade agreement with Turkey, which did not mean that Turkish employees in Europe have particularly positive access to having spouses or children into the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131714	One can imagine many things, but that is, the bottom line of this proposal is the phasing out of the 1963 Ankara Agreement on an association agreement between the European Union and Turkey. An important component of the association agreement is the customs union, and we really, really attach great importance to it by the government. We therefore believe that what is proposed by the Danish People's Party is the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131741	So I have to see the Foreign Minister's answer in that the Foreign Minister is of the opinion that Turkey would think it was fantastic, isn't that how I should understand the Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131818	It must be understood that I believe there are a great many delicate balances that we must keep an eye on at the moment in our relations with Turkey. After all, as I mentioned in my speech, we have clearly stated on the part of the government that we do not believe that there is any prospect of Turkey joining the European Union. At the same time, however, it is also clear that we have a number of agreements with Turkey, including in the area of security policy, including in the area of migration, which are really, really important to stick to and for which there is no reason at all, I think that we should be gambling at this stage, and certainly not on this basis. That is why the government ends up with the conclusion it makes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131857	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131859	Thank you. I just need to make sure that I understand the Minister correctly. So what the Minister says is the government's policy is that President Erdogan and his fierce attack on all freedoms in Turkey and his attacks into Afrin must be rewarded with a trade agreement that puts Turkey even better in trade with the European Union. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131932	Well, it's up to Enhedslisten how to interpret the text. There are some elements of the Customs Union Agreement that we have at the moment, which, what it says, can be done better, which needs to be worked on, as I said in my speech, and that is why we are in favour of modernising the customs union so that it will work even better than it is doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131956	Is there a follow-up question? Yeah, here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424131959	Does the Minister believe that Turkey is complying with the preamble of the agreement we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132008	There are plenty of problems in Turkey, and it is not the case that, for example, there are problems in Turkey. The provisions of the customs union were implemented in the same haste. The European Union immediately implemented it; Turkey spent 22 years, as I also mentioned in my speech. So there are plenty of things we can have some discussions about. We also need to have regular discussions with Turkey, and we need to raise with Turkey the problematic relationship they have with human rights at the moment: the reduction in freedom of expression and the attack on the fundamental rights currently under way. That is one of the points I raise when I meet my Turkish colleague.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132046	There are no further brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then we go to the number of rapporteurs, and the first is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132106	I would like to start by saying that there is absolutely nothing positive to say about the developments that are taking place in Turkey at the moment. We are witnessing a country led by President Erdogan, which systematically suppresses all opposition, imprisons political opponents, closes newspapers, radio stations and television stations and has set world record in the number of journalists imprisoned. The rights of ethnic and religious minorities are deteriorating, and we see an Islamist president whose tentacles also reach Denmark in an attempt to break the necks of political opponents, from people who are active in political parties in Europe to comedians who have made fun of Erdogan. However, when we cannot support the proposal by the Danish People's Party for a phasing-out, it is because there is another Turkey too that has not voted for President Erdogan in elections. It is actually 50 per cent. Even in referendums where he has restricted freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, 50% have. said no. We do not want to fail that part of the population. And this is primarily about trade, and for us it is important to still have an ongoing dialogue, especially with that part of Turkey, which actually wants a different path and approaches the development that we have, and some of what we stand for in Denmark, about democracy and human rights. That is why we would like to insist that the agreement be maintained so that we can still put pressure on Turkey, including through the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132226	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132228	I can't believe I had actually come to the conclusion that the Social Democratic Party had come to a conclusion that the Danish immigration policy was not sufficiently strict. I understand that it is different when it comes to Turks. I don't hear the rapporteur, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, at all, addresses the fact that Danish family reunification rules are under fire from the agreement or decision of the Association Council of 19 September 1980 which means that Østre Landsret has sent a specific case on the reunification of a Turkish woman for a preliminary ruling by the European Court of Justice. And if you are told that the Turkish woman in question should have had family reunification to Denmark, it will mean that thousands of refusals to reunite the families of the resident Turks will have to be resumed because of an agreement in 1963, because of a decision of an Association Council in 1980. Does the Social Democratic Party consider it appropriate that an Association Council for a Ankara Agreement should be a determining factor in how Danish foreign policy should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132338	It's part of this. If this happens, as the Danish People's Party proposes, we will lose virtually any contact with Turkey, including with the secular opposition, also in relation to holding on to Turkey. There may then be some elements that are problematic for the Danish People's Party, but the truth is that no matter how Turkey behaves, the Danish People's Party does not want Turkey to be part of the European Community, because that has been reported out several times, and I think it doesn't matter which rules and what elements you can take out of this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132409	I think it is a very important component, in other words that we have reached an agreement which obliges us not to change the legislation in respect of Turkish employees compared to that in 1980. We have agreed to a stand still clause, which means that Turks can be brought together in the family of Denmark on different terms than people who are not Turks. Does the Social Democratic Party not consider this to be problematic?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132441-2	There may well be some problems in that, but here we are talking, as I understand it, about phasing out the whole agreement, and this has some rather serious problematic consequences, among others. also for trade in Denmark, because Danish companies benefit from the agreement. Then there may be elements that I think should be taken up and negotiated if you want it from the Danish People's Party, but completely phasing out this seems to us a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132501	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132502	Thank you. Now all I know is sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen as an acquaintance of the situation in Turkey and a clear opponent of the repression that is taking place. That is why I would like to hear whether the Socialist rapporteur cannot confirm that, when Russia, with a much, much less trade with Turkey, said to Erdogan that it is enough and stopped the flow of tourists and, I believe, stopped some vegetables, Erdogan fell to the teat and apologized to Russia for the shooting down of some Russian aircraft and wagged with the tail and later followed Russian policy. Is it not true that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132554	I guess that's pretty much correct. As far as Russia and Turkey are concerned, we can see that there is now a very good relationship. Now we do not hear many protests from Russia in relation to the human rights abuses that are taking place in Turkey. I know Mr. Søren Søndergaard as someone who knows a lot about Turkey, and I really think we should welcome the fact that all parties in the Folketing agree that what is going on in Turkey is by no means in order. I think, too, sir. Søren Søndergaard knows that there are opposition forces in Turkey who are very concerned that Europe should not be abandoned and who would see it here if we had nothing to do with Turkey at all, as a victory for Erdogan, who likes to say that try to see, they don't like us because we are Muslims.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132634	I fully agree with that, and we certainly should not do so. That's why we have to go down there. That is why we must use it that Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe and the OSCE, etc. to keep pushing them. But that raises the question that, when Turkey is the largest trading partner with the European Union, how long should we not use the opportunity that we have to push through changes in Turkey? It is a pity to say that the Turkish economy is particularly good at the moment. In other words, should we just watch silently while democracy is being trampled underfoot without using the tools that are available to ensure more democratic development?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132713	No, and I certainly think that we should support our government and everyone else who goes down there and protests against the human rights abuses. It is also my impression that the Danish Government is doing so in this area. Then we can always discuss whether we are doing enough or not doing enough, but basically I think we should welcome the fact that there is agreement in the Folketing that what is going on in Turkey is by no means in order. And we need the forums we have to protest against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132737	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424132756	Thank you. As previous speakers have also explained, the Danish People's Party has made a proposal to phase out the association agreement between the European Union and Turkey, it is also what we call the Ankara Agreement and it forms the basis of the customs union that the European Union has had with Turkey since 1996. As the Danish People's Party has also stated in its comments on the proposal, the agreement certainly gives rights to economically active Turkish nationals who are not nationals of other third countries. In the Left, however, we do not believe that these are reasons for the termination of the association agreement with Turkey. As I say, every time I have the opportunity at all, a fundamental priority for the Left is that we support free trade and we support cross-border trade. If we in Denmark are to maintain our growth, prosperity and employment, it is essential that we continue to create the best framework conditions for Danish companies' exports to markets outside the EU. The EU's and Turkey's customs union has contributed significantly to improving Danish companies' access to a market which contains almost 80 million potential consumers. So this is something that ultimately benefits all of us. This is not directly apparent from the motion for a resolution, but I have had the feeling that today's proposal is not only about dissatisfaction with the Ankara Agreement itself, but also stems from such a more general concern about the political developments in Turkey, and we have also been able to listen to the previous speakers and the questions that have been raised, among other things. is what is behind the proposal. I just have to say: I agree, I fully agree, that this is an extremely worrying development that is taking place in Turkey. The course that President Erdogan has set for Turkey is moving further and further away from what we stand for in the European Union and our fundamental principles, and we have also come to the conclusion in the government that it is not possible to see for ourselves a genuine EU membership for Turkey. However, there is a huge difference between engaging in trade cooperation and then discussing EU membership, which would also mean close political integration. So, in conclusion, we want to maintain the relationship with Turkey that we have, among other things. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution through the Ankara Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133038	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133043	Nobody can be surprised that money is important to the Left. I don't think anyone is in doubt about that. But the Left also has an integration minister who has at some point said that something else is important. Thus Mrs Inger Løjberg said in connection with this Gencsag, which was the first to undermine the Danish family reunification rules, with reference to the Association Council's Decision No. 1/80 of 19 September 1980, that we and I quote it is important, when you come to Denmark as a family, that we are sure that you will be part of the ordinary Danish daily life. I assume that the rapporteur also agrees with that. But then it is strange that the rapporteur is willing to sell his soul in order that Turkish people who work in Denmark should be better placed than all kinds of others, and I do not understand that. And when it comes to money, the Left thinks that it is such an excellent agreement when that agreement has meant that since 1995 the European Union has supported Turkey with 80 billion. kr.? Are they 80 billion? kr. Gave a good deal of attention to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's perception?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133156	Well, basically, money is important. This is also important for the Danish People's Party. This is important for Denmark. This is important for us to have the society we have. If money is not made, if private business does not make money, and that is what we are doing. by producing goods and exporting them, well then we were a completely different country, and then we did not have the debates that we have here in the Folketing. Then we had something quite different to deal with: a nation in financial difficulties, and I do not want to trade with countries around the globe, where no emphasis has been placed on having a well-functioning business and where no money is made. So it seems to me to be a rather strange contrast, which the Danish People's Party is trying to put up here, that for the Danish People's Party money doesn't matter and for the Left there's nothing but money that matters. Of course, reality is not that simple. It is important to stress that the rights of Turkish nationals are the rights of Turkish nationals who already live and work here in Denmark and, for many, have been here for decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133302	So, sir. So Jan E. Jørgensen is not concerned about the prospect that thousands of family reunification cases which have led to a refusal of Turkish citizens should be resumed if it is the case that the European Court of Justice comes to that conclusion in the specific case of this woman. Well, the fact that we have to resume this case is that sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is not at all worried about; I am very surprised that this is the case. But I just want to know if Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen does not share the concern expressed by the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133340	Well, I don't think I said anything about that. I don't think I said anything about that, so I don't know why Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth has reason to conclude on my behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133354	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Søren Søndergaard as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133411	Thank you, President. The proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party on phasing out the Ankara Agreement between the EU and Turkey is a good example of how many roads can lead to Rome or, to put it another way, that the same conclusion can be reached with different starting points and with different arguments. In the comments to the proposal, the proposers place incredibly much emphasis on the citizens of Turkey's ability to come to the EU and Denmark to work and, as a consequence, the possibility of various social benefits. In this context, the proposers are very concerned that the agreement leads to Turkish employees being treated in the same way as other EU citizens. That is not the starting point of Enhedslisten at all. Firstly, we do not really care whether the employees who come to Denmark to work are from Romania, Bulgaria or Turkey. Frankly, that doesn't make much difference to us. Secondly, we have no objection to foreign employees coming to Denmark to work just as we do not object to Danish employees going abroad. For us, however, it is absolutely crucial that employees who come from wherever they come from work in Denmark on exactly the same conditions as resident workers, and that is precisely one of the reasons for our EU resistance: that the EU is preventing us from fighting effectively against social dumping, whether the employees concerned come from Turkey, Portugal or Poland. Nevertheless, we agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that the Ankara Agreement should be scrapped. For us, the argument is actually very simple. In the preamble to the Ankara Agreement, the Turkish President-in-Office of the Council undertakes to uphold peace and freedom at all times. To safeguard peace and freedom! The simple question is therefore: does President Erdogan do that? The answer is as simple as the question. No, he doesn't. Invasion in Afrin, where the only peaceful area of the six-year Syrian civil war has been transformed into a paradise for Islamists, salafists and other good people, where looting and ethnic cleansing have become the order of the day; undermining the freedom of the press in Turkey, where virtually all critical media have been closed or taken over, and where editors, journalists have been thrown into prison or spend more time indictment than on journalistic work; abuse of freedom of expression, where any criticism of the President or invasion of Afrin is dismissed as support for terrorism and punished with prison; repression of political opponents, where, for example, the Afrinian invaders have been condemned. virtually all of the 59 MEPs from the pro-democratic HDP party are either in prison or in the dock for completely absurd accusations and over 10,000 members of the party have been imprisoned in recent years. You can go on and on. There is therefore no reason for this, because the conclusion is clear: Turkey does not comply with the preamble of the Ankara Agreement, and therefore the EU should inform Turkey that the agreement has been breached and will therefore be terminated if the EU takes the fight for peace and freedom seriously. We'll see about that. Finally, the proposers use the wording of Turkish citizens and Turkish immigrants and descendants several times. Frankly, I think we should be careful about that. Because you're from Turkey, you don't have to be a Turk. That is precisely part of the repression in Turkey, for example. to force all children to stand up in school in front of the Turkish flag and shout in choir: Proud is the one who can call himself Turk. But a large proportion of the people of Turkey are not Turks, but Kurds, Armenians, Assyrians, etc. This is also true here in Denmark, and I would therefore urge that we do not repeat the great Turkish propaganda on this point either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133831	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424133840	Thank you very much. We are debating a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on the phasing out of the association agreement between Turkey and the EU from 1963. I would like to start by stating that we share the concerns of the Danish People's Party regarding the democratic development of Turkey, but in relation to this matter we are particularly concerned about the customs union that entered into force in 1996 as a result of the association agreement between the European Union and Turkey. In the Liberal Alliance, we welcome the fact that the Customs Union, which liberalised the trade regime for all industrial products, has strengthened investment and trade for the benefit and benefit of both the European Union and Turkey. This has meant in concrete terms for Denmark that Danish companies' access to the large Turkish market is much better than it would otherwise be. There is a need to modernise the customs union. This is partly due to the fact that Turkey has not fulfilled all the obligations under the Customs Union. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that there is great potential for trade with Turkey by modernising the customs union. In general terms, we believe that we on the Danish side should always stand on the side of free trade. Turkish membership of the European Union is then a completely different issue, on which a separate position should be taken. There is no doubt here that the recent negative democratic developments in Turkey have moved the country further away from future accession to the European Union. I would like to make it absolutely clear that, in line with the Danish People's Party, we in the Liberal Alliance have more than usual difficulty in seeing Turkey as a future member of the European Union. This does not mean that we should interrupt our trade cooperation and our relations with Turkey. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that through cooperation, trade and good and critical dialogue with Turkey we can put some of these problems and concerns on the agenda. This is for the benefit of both Denmark and the Turkish people. For these reasons, in the Liberal Alliance, we continue to support the EU association agreement with Turkey with the flaws and shortcomings it has, and we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134059	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134103	Thank you. Mrs Christina Egelund treats this association agreement as if it were a trade agreement. This is much more than a trade agreement. As I have explained on several occasions, it is an agreement which gives Turkish employees, Turkish citizens who are employees in an EU country, rights which other foreign nationals do not have. Peace be with the Liberal Alliance in wanting to trade with Turkey. I do not really believe that we export much to Turkey. We import a lot to Turkish vegetable traders and something like that, and peace be with it. I understand that; I understand that you want to trade with Turkey, but then I have to ask Mrs Christina Egelund something. If we came and said that we would repeal the Ankara Agreement, that we would like to make a new trade agreement with Turkey instead, what would be the Turkish Government's interest in saying: we do not want that; we do not want any relationship at all with the European Union; if we cannot have privileged access for our Turkish employees in your countries, we will not have a trade agreement with the European Union at all? What reasoning should there be in saying this on the part of the Turkish Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134215	I do not think the Turkish Government would say that on the day of the resumption of negotiations, and that is why there is a debate on matters. That is the way it will be if you stand on opposite sides with some interests, and there will also be similar interests. Among other things: Turkey has an interest in trade with the European Union, just as we have an interest in trade with them, and these are the positions of which negotiations have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134242	I guess it was a round of speeches, even for this honored hall. What I am asking Mrs Christina Egelund is: if Mrs Christina Egelund would like to get rid of some of the side effects that this agreement has, why wouldn't Mrs Christina Egelund say that we should start over again, also on the grounds that the association agreement was made on the grounds that Turkey should eventually be a member of the European Union? Thankfully, the Liberal Alliance has acknowledged that Turkey should not do so, but then why continue to work on a platform whose purpose is for Turkey to be admitted at some point? Why not create a new trade agreement with Turkey, which does not give privileged access to family reunifications for Turks living in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134328	However, it is our position that the agreement that lies must be modernised, and I think that is actually clear from my speech. On the day of the negotiations with the Turkish Government, it is clear that the European Union, for its part, will defend its interests, just as the Turks will legitimately defend their interests. It is simply not that the core of what is the Customs Union, which is an expiry of the Association Agreement, is very much of an interest in Denmark as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134401	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134409	Thank you. First of all, I would like to stress that I am standing here today as a substitute for Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, who unfortunately could not be here today. The proposal to phase out the Ankara Agreement is part of a major debate on relations between the European Union and Turkey. Basically, in the alternative, we are very concerned about the human rights situation in Turkey today, and although it does not seem to be the prime motivation of the proposers, it is in this light that we see the proposal and the debate today. For the alternative, it is important for Denmark and the European Union to balance between putting pressure on Turkey's regime on the one hand and maintaining incentives to remedy it. EU membership is for us to see an important incentive for Erdogan, but to a large extent also for the Turkish opposition, and that is why we should not slam the door completely in for this, which would be done by completely phasing out the Ankara Agreement. Similarly, we also believe that negotiations on EU membership should be suspended, but therefore with the possibility of their being resumed. Having said that, it is also extremely important that the Turkish regime can feel the EU's dissatisfaction with the many violations of human rights and democratic rights that are taking place today. We can show this dissatisfaction in many other ways than by phasing out the Ankara Agreement. For example, it could be ensured that the modernisation of the customs union between the European Union and Turkey, which is still on the drawing board, does not, of course, lead to more favourable conditions for Turkey as long as the situation is as it stands. In addition, the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on refugees should, of course, also be blocked, rather than sending another 3 billion. EUR to Turkey through that agreement. Finally, there is also a need to nuance the picture of Turkish workers in Denmark that the proposal helps to draw. The proposal gives the impression that the Ankara Agreement has led many thousands of Turks to set a course for Denmark to such an extent that it poses a problem for Denmark. However, from 1 January 2011 to 27 February 2018, only 30 permanent residence permits were granted on the basis of the Ankara Agreement. That's a little more than four a year. Therefore, it does not really seem to be concerned about the immigration allegedly resulting from the agreement. In fact, it would be good if more Turks wanted to work and live in Denmark, as demographic development makes us need extra hands. On the whole, however, the alternative cannot support the proposal. However, we would very much like to discuss other options for putting pressure on the Turkish regime to get them back on track in relation to human rights. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134657	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134701	Mrs Pernille Schnoor is to be thanked for her frankness: we need more Turks to Denmark. This is the alternative's idea of how to solve employment policy in this country. It is wonderful, especially when you see what people originating in Turkey, i.e. also Kurds and others I am trying to accommodate Mr. Søren Søndergaard's wish, even though it gets a little far, is that these people have a furiously low employment rate. But now I will try instead to appeal to the alternative's way of thinking to see if it might bring us a little forward here. I believe that the alternative has a vision or a desire that everyone should be equal before the law. If that is true, does Mrs Pernille Schnoor not see a problem with Turkish citizens being put differently and that means better than people from the Philippines or Thailand or Columbia or Buthan, or what do I know? Is it not a problem from the point of view of the alternative, in other words, that Turkish citizens are put in a better position than all the other groups of foreigners here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134818	First of all, I find it incredibly exciting that the rapporteur makes an attempt to understand the way in which the alternative is thinking. I find that very refreshing to hear. In relation to the specific question, I think I will refer to what I said in my rapporteur's speech, so that we are not worried about the immigration that is being indicated or indicated in this proposal. We are not concerned that more Turks would want to live and work in Denmark. We have demographic challenges, for example. I myself am the rapporteur for the area of elderly people and health. In the area of the elderly, we have great challenges in recruiting labour. So that doesn't bother us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424134909	The fact is that a large proportion of those whom Mrs Pernille Schnoor wants more of to Denmark do not contribute to society, but are on passive support. That certainly does not improve Mrs Pernille Schnoor's problem. I will try to ask Mrs Pernille Schnoor something. When the Left was in opposition, the Left made a suggestion that some specific countries should have privileged access to Denmark as employees, and others should not. There was a lot of debate about a tiny country near Indonesia, I remember it was Brunei, but we should not get into that here. From the point of view of the alternative, would it be sensible to have such a modulation so that from some third world countries one could come to Denmark to work, and from other third world countries one could not come to Denmark to work? And if that's not the way I think it isn't how does Mrs. Pernille Schnoor explain that Turks must have better terms than all sorts of others?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135012	I see that the rapporteur goes very far into the periphery of what this proposal is about, in other words, in relation to me having to take a position on third world countries and what the conditions are for them and their immigration. I can only say what I have just said, and if the rapporteur is interested in going further into the details of how we deal with immigration with Denmark from Turkey, then I must appeal to my colleague, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist further elaborates on another occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135056	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we have come to Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135103	Thank you. I will be next in line, which of course supports all the concerns about the developments that Turkey is going through right now, both in terms of human rights and democracy. And it also updates a question that we have asked ourselves and also members of the Folketing in other contexts: what do we do when a country fails to fulfil the commitments that we have entered into on the basis of? Well, here it is, in concrete terms, an association agreement. The same goes for Israel, too, although this is a prerequisite for our association agreement with Israel. You could also look at EU countries, in other words Member States, which also do not live up to fundamental values. What do we do with them? I think that is a fundamental discussion which also deserves more attention and which, of course, contains a lot of dilemmas and also realisms. So, how do you best affect people: by breaking any connection or by maintaining a connection so that you have a basis for dialogue? This is a very difficult balance, which is not only topical in relation to Turkey. We have had that discussion in connection with the membership negotiations, and there it has had consequences, as the membership negotiations have de facto been stranded. It is so little different what we call it, whether they are stranded or frozen or suspended, etc., but nobody can see for themselves right now, either in the short or medium term, that Turkey becomes a member of the European Union. So, in this way, Turkey has had a consequence of reviewing the developments that are taking place, particularly in relation to human rights and democracy. But when we talk about the association agreement, I also sense that it is really about something else for the Danish People's Party, that is, that it is not about punishing Turkey because Turkey does not live up to the safeguarding of peace and freedom, or human rights and democracy for that matter; no, it is more about the family reunification rules that are being affected by the association agreement. We still have to figure out what the consequences will be. There has been a judgment, but we do not yet know what effect it will have. And, of course, it will be interesting for everyone to follow. But I was wondering a little when Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth cheered at the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, and he said that he and the Left were just thinking about money. 'Cause I guess that's it, too, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth does when he proposes that we should continue to have an association agreement, but that it should only be about tariffs and tariffs, not about family reunification. I guess it's because money means something to the Danish People's Party, but you just don't want to get more Turkish citizens to Denmark. Right there our concern is not quite so great, and it may not surprise the Danish People's Party, because we also have a fundamentally different attitude to family reunification. It does not hurt us that people whose family has lived here for generations can bring their spouse up here, and that is why we are not very concerned. But, of course, we will also follow the area like everyone else and see what effect it will have on our family reunification rules. But I do not think that this is something that will shake us and cause us to reconsider the association agreement, since it is already an area where we are quite a long way from the Danish People's Party, and we already think that people who have lived here for many years, perhaps even have been born and raised here, should also have the opportunity to have their spouse in Denmark. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135448	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135450	Punish Turkey! I have no objection to punishing Turkey, but what I have first of all an interest in is the well-being of the Danish people. I know that has not been very much absorbed by the Radical Left, even though some of their members of parliament have begun to write books about what it means to be Danish. By the way, the one I was looking at was pretty funny. But peace be to it. Now we heard from the Radical Left's competitor in the bliss of multiculturalism that the alternative saw that more Turks would be really good for Denmark; so we just had to have more Turks, because then they could take care of our elderly, I had to understand the rapporteur. So I would really like to get a very clear shot from the hip from Mrs Zenia Stampe in relation to that: Is the future of Denmark more Turks?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135549	After all, there is no doubt that we will need labour in the future, and I think that the Danish People's Party should ask itself what they prefer, namely cared for by a Dane with Turkish background, Turkish parents, or by a robot. For as I have understood the Danish People's Party, they do not think that robots are the solution to our labour problems, and therefore it can become part of the solution that young people come to Denmark, which we can get into the labour market with the right reception, and which can carry out some of the tasks that we are not enough to lift ourselves. And it is already a reality that there is a shortage of social workers in particular throughout the country. So even if the Danish People's Party doesn't like people with other ethnic backgrounds it's perhaps too generalising, and I regret that, but especially doesn't like people with a Muslim background... does the Danish People's Party prefer that it is robots that should look after our older people in the future? That's the choice you can face. Are they robots, or is it just nobody? Is that sir? Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who has to go half-time to look after his parents and then, by the way, cannot contribute this extra to the Treasury, so we have to cut welfare elsewhere? Or must he have mercy on his parents and let someone with a different ethnic background take care of them? Unfortunately, I do not really believe that the reality is going to be that way, and that is the choice that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth and Dansk Folkeparti are eventually faced, and I look forward to what they choose. At least I know I don't choose the robots, because I will always choose people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135724	It is astonishing that Mrs Zenia Stampe can stand here denying reality. The fact is that the employment rate for the resident Turks is furiously low, it is down to the bottom. The fact is that some of those who do most badly in the Danish primary school are Turks, young people with Turkish background, and then Mrs Zenia Stampe stands here and tells us all that Turks are the rescue for Denmark. It's absurd, it's grotesque. We are dealing here with an agreement that could undermine the Danish family reunification rules if the European Court of Justice reaches the conclusion that a Turkish woman who has been refused family reunification should be here. This will require thousands of refusals of family reunifications for Turks to be re-examined and re-examined. That's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135821	It is, of course, entirely a question of how integration is to be tackled again. Now we also have a party, namely the Danish People's Party, which is opposed to integration, because the strangers just have to go back home. I would just like to say that if one day you are in a situation where you lack staff in the country's nursing home, I would say, be welcome. If a young Turkish woman comes to Denmark, I will do all I can to dress her to take the job, because the alternative, which is what the Danish People's Party is advocating, is that there is no one. Then you can get merry or fret that children with Turkish backgrounds are not as good in primary school, but what if there is no one? A non-existent person doesn't even have any potential, and then there just isn't anybody to look after, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's family members, or it's the robots.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135913	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the SF rapporteur in the Chamber, nor the Conservative. That is why we move on to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424135939	I just came back a little bit. I'm sorry, but we're trying to make it all anyway. See, in 1963 the EU and Turkey concluded an association agreement called the Ankara Agreement with each other. The agreement provided, among other things, for: Turkey was able to obtain loans from the EU and secured trade conditions between the two countries. A customs union between Turkey and the EU was concluded in 1995. Between 1995 and 2020, the EU has supported Turkey with 80 billion. kr. With the so-called refugee facility, the EU is supporting Turkey with a further 44 billion. kr. It is therefore a total aid of 124 billion. kr. over 25 years. To this must be added the sum of 220 billion. kr. in the period from 1964 to date in loans, the vast majority of which is thus given in the period from 2000 to 2018. The EU's ambition to bind Turkey closer to the EU and ultimately make Turkey a member of the European Union has cost European taxpayers dearly. In addition, however, the association agreement has had some, to say the least, major side effects. The Additional Protocol of 23 November 1970 to the Association Agreement and, in concrete terms, Decision No. 1/80 of 19 September 1980 introduced the standstill clause, which means that the Member States of the European Union will not be able to introduce new restrictions on the freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, including restrictions on Turkish workers and their spouses, in addition to what was in force at the time, i.e. in 1980. As a result, Turkish employees have acquired a special status which is not shared by other nationalities with which we have concluded trade agreements. The decision in the so-called Genc case meant that 166 cases had to be reopened to decide whether Turkish employees in this country were entitled to family reunification of children on the basis of the decision of the Association Council. Most recently, the Østre Landsret referred a specific case for a preliminary ruling to the European Court of Justice to assess whether the so-called attachment requirement could be used to legally deny Turks marriage by reference to the above mentioned provisions of the Additional Protocol and the decision of the Association Council. The present case is merely to show the madness of the fact that a Turkish man who had come to Denmark as a result of a marriage with a German resident was refused family reunification, since after being divorced from the German woman he would remarry the Turkish woman to whom he was originally married and with whom he had four children, but which he had therefore been divorced in order to marry the German woman and, in order, it must be assumed that he would have access to Europe. At the time of application, the person concerned was also employed. If the European Court of Justice considers that the person concerned, on the basis of the standstill clause, should have had a residence permit for his wife in Denmark, it will mean that a long, long series of family reunification proceedings with Turkish nationals will have to be reopened. It is, of course, completely unacceptable that Turkish employees should be better off than the citizens of other non-EU countries when it comes to access to family reunification because of an old, outdated agreement between the EU and Turkey. The EU-Turkey Association Agreement was concluded at a time when Turkey could at least be said to be on a less confrontational and much more westward course than today, when the current Turkish President is transforming Turkey into a classical Arab totalitarian regime. Where, at the time, Turkey wanted to become a member of the European Union, today Turkey wants to submit to the whole of the European Union. Most recently, President Erdogan has threatened Austria with fire and fire if the Austrian Government maintains the ambition of banning Turkish politicians from campaigning in Austria towards the forthcoming elections in Turkey. Most of us probably remember the outcome of the vote on the Turkish Constitution on 16 April 2017, when Turkish ministers and politicians took Europe thinly in trying to get Turkish citizens living in Europe to vote for the new Constitution. And, as you know, this triggered a major diplomatic crisis after the Turkish Foreign Minister had been denied the rejection of countries in the Netherlands and the Turkish family minister at the border, which in turn led to Erdogan's accusations of Nazism and fascism in Europe. In addition, President Erdogan has significantly reduced freedoms in Turkey, including by arresting and imprisoning politicians from the Kurdish opposition party, the HDP, and the vendetta against supporters of the Gülen movement is still in progress right now. Furthermore, Turkey maintains the occupation of the northern part of Cyprus. Turkey has de facto occupied the Afrin province in Syria, and several Turkish politicians from among others. The AKP speaks in earnest about military attacking Greece... a NATO partner... with the aim of getting a number of Greek islands in the Aegean back into Turkish hands. So we are dealing with a country that puts civilisation and civilized relations with other countries behind it in every way. So, of course, talented politicians have long since written down that Turkey could ever become a member of the European Union, and that is why there is no reason why relations with Turkey should be settled through an association agreement. The Association Agreement must therefore logically be repealed and the purpose of today's motion for a resolution has been to commit the government to this course. This does not, of course, mean that we should not continue to be able to import clothes and other items from Turkey, but it must be done under a trade agreement, for example. like the one we know between Canada and the European Union. It is a mystery to me why the very parties that have so far publicly stated that Turkey should never be a member of the European Union insist on maintaining an association agreement between the European Union and Turkey which is detrimental to Denmark, because it puts Turkish citizens better than nationals of other countries in terms of family reunification, rather than making the logical move when, according to the parties concerned, Turkey is not to be a member of the European Union • to work to ensure that Turkey's relations with the European Union are dealt with in a different way than with countries on the threshold of membership of the European Union. I and the Danish People's Party simply do not see the advantage of maintaining the association agreement, and that is completely incomprehensible to me, I must confess why a majority in the Folketing wants to maintain an agreement that is so unilaterally in favour of Turkey and Turkish citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424140723	This has given rise to a few brief comments. Kenneth Kristensen Berth It was great). Yes, but at least we'll start with sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424140733	Thank you. Now I'm not sir. Søren Søndergaard, which is why I do not want to raise any polemical questions, which I expect the rapporteur cannot answer, but instead just tell us that Danish exports of goods to Turkey are substantially larger than that of a couple of Turkish greengrocers and others. In 2012, we exported for 4 billion. kr. Every year, and that figure had grown by 50 per cent. in 2016 to reach 6 billion. kr., i.e. 6 billion. kr. annual. The EU is Turkey's largest trading partner, while Turkey is the EU's fifth largest trading partner. It's just for general information, so we know what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424140818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424140820	Wow, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, wow. So, there was a time in 2006, 2005, when the Left stood for some principles, and where the Left, with Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen in front, said that we in Denmark, Danish newspapers, should be allowed to print whatever they wanted, regardless of whether Danish goods were boycotted throughout the Arab world, whether or not the Danish flag was burned by, no matter what. There were some principles that we held to and that we held to in this country. That's when I applauded. But I am not applauding now, and I am not applauding now, because what we are witnessing is a government that is willing to put Danish family reunification rules at risk on the basis of an association agreement with Turkey. And it is a government which is not prepared to applaud the Turkish Government when the Turkish Government suddenly gets the ambition of team now to attack Greece, a NATO member country because it thinks that Kos and, incidentally, a lot of other islands should belong to Turkey; that is it. I don't understand Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424140925	It was one more question for Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen? Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424140927	Well, I am sorry that the rapporteur simply does not understand the Left. So, the Left also has a principle of free trade. Free trade has created growth and prosperity. The Danish People's Party sometimes seems like you want to go back to such a more protectionist line, where you think we can close ourselves to ourselves. But let me end by asking a question: is it that the Danish People's Party is calling for Turkey to be boycotted, and are there other countries that the Danish People's Party is now in the process of considering that it might be a good idea for us to go out and boycott like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141003	No, but I'm just gonna say to Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, that in 2005 and in 2006 the Left stood on some principles. Those principles cost, but I also believe that those principles were the starting point for the whole liberal tradition of the Left. But we are now in a situation where we are faced with a despot in Turkey which we are not prepared to applaud because we are afraid of losing a little export to Turkey. I don't think that's fantastic. I have no ambition to boycott Turkey. I have even said that we can make a trade agreement with them, but we should not have an agreement that includes Turkish citizens having easier access to family reunification in Denmark than other foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141042	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141044	First of all, I regret that I am asking such difficult questions that the rapporteur of the Left is not in a position to answer them, but I am sure that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can easily answer the question I am asking now. The question is that I fully agree and understand the rationale behind the fact that there is no reason for an agreement based on the prospect of EU membership, if at the same time it is said that the country should never be a member of the European Union, that is to say, it is obvious and then I simply do not understand why the Danish People's Party will reward the Erdogan regime, the Islamist Erdogan regime, which supports Salafist and Islamist forces all over the world, with particularly favourable agreements that mean that they can export to the European Union and to Denmark without customs borders, as opposed to so many other countries in the world. So, what is the reason why there should be the special preferential treatment for Turkey, and now we are completely ignoring EU membership?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141146	We do not necessarily want to do that either, I would say to Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard. It was, in fact, an attempt to make some of the other parties understand that this could be dealt with in a different way than through an association agreement that it was not a question of either or, in other words, a question of whether, if we did not have this association agreement, we would have no relationship whatsoever with Turkey. That is the kind of picture that is being tried out by those parties that are opposed to this. You do not seem to understand that this is much more than a trade agreement. They treat it like a trade agreement. I do not think that this should be treated as a trade agreement because it has some implications, partly in relation to family reunification and partly in relation to the fact that it is, of course, about Turkey being a member of the European Union one day. That is why we have an association agreement. So I have no specific ambition that I will offer Turkey particularly favourable rules or otherwise. We write something in the motion for a resolution about the possibility of a CETA-like agreement, but it is not a must from our point of view. What is a must from our point of view is that we are getting rid of that terrible agreement that we reached with Turkey in 1963 on some conditions that were completely different from those we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141251	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141253	The Danish People's Party writes precisely this in its comments, that is to say that it could make a CETA agreement, and the whole point of the CETA agreement is that there is no customs duty on a large number of goods, and that is to say that one favours one's trading partner. This is something that is often justified by democracy, human rights and so on, which, of course, does not come up at all when it is Turkey. But perhaps I think that the Danish People's Party could give a clearer answer. When I ask: is it not the case that we should not favour a dictatorial regime with reduced tariffs? The Danish People's Party could just say: yes, we should not do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141331	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141334	I would like to answer that, because I really do not think that is a good idea either. I really do not think that is a good idea. Nor does it say that we should make an agreement like the one we have made with Canada, because I think that would be a bad idea too. At the same time, however, I must acknowledge that there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament now; I was just about to say, thinking with the wallet; that is not to say from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, I think, but now I came to say it anyway, which is that it is more about money than it is about freedoms. I feel like it's the other way around. I have the feeling that I stand on certain rights, I stand on the liberal values of freedom, and it has to be said that the Turkish Government does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141414	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141417	It is nice to hear that the Danish People's Party stands for the liberal values of freedom, while commending Viktor Orbán in Hungary. Now leave it alone for a second. The rapporteur says that there is a worrying development in Turkey, and we can agree that there is in every way, but I would really like to ask him. Kenneth Kristensen Berth: Isn't the truth that it doesn't matter what regime you have in Turkey, because the Danish People's Party doesn't want Turkey to join the European Union in any way, whether it is a secular or an Islamist regime that has power?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141449	We can discuss Viktor Orbán. It is clear that there are a lot of mistakes in Hungary, it goes without saying, but there is also a desire to defend its country and defend its people, and I take my hat off for that, because there is a problem with other places. In relation to Turkey: there has been no doubt that we have been opposed to Turkey's accession to the European Union from day one. Why do we have that? Because we could see which way it could end up walking. That's what happens when you have a country where 98 percent. of those who live in the country are Muslims to say it now as it is. Then there is an extremely great potential for fundamentalism, and the potential for fundamentalism has been triggered in these years by the Turkish Government, by Erdogan. It is clear that if we take on a country that may end up as a fundamentalist outcast, then we are in trouble. So, of course we shouldn't. And even if Erdogan at some point goes off the stick down there, it could be, and it could be that another party came to the party then there would still be the risk that the fundamentalists would return. That risk would still be there. And we should not have a country of 80 million inhabitants led by a fundamentalist Muslim into Europe. We're not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141558	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141559	Well, then I have to ask how many Muslims there must be before you can't join the European Union. Well, Albania, Bosnia... I know it's 20 percent. in Turkey, which is alevite and belongs to a very moderate branch of Islam, if they are Muslims at all. So I think 98 percent. It's pretty high. But then you can just say it instead of criticizing Erdogan. So you can skip having something to do with the West if you're a Muslim country. Then you can't join the community, and it doesn't really matter what kind of government you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141626	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Lars Aslan Rasmussen does not want me to take part in a debate about who is a Muslim and who is not a Muslim. Well, I guess that sir... Lars Aslan Rasmussen acknowledges that alevimuslims and Ahmadiyya Muslims are Muslims if they say they are Muslims. Having said that, I have to say that we do not see Bosnia or Albania becoming members of the European Union. We don't. This is not only due to the fact that there are many Muslims in those countries too that they are very, very far from being in a situation where they can enter the EU but it is also due to that. We think this is a bad idea. We think there are very many Muslims today in the European Union; we do not need any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141704	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the European Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141718	The debate is open. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424141730	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution that we are about to deal with is that it should be possible to choose a plate bearing a flag. As regards freedom of choice in the area of licence plates, the original 1968 Vienna Convention requires all cars in international traffic to show the country of registration of the car by means of an elliptical sticker, known as a landmark. However, a regulation was drawn up within the EU back in 1998 which has agreed to recognise the EU registration plate showing the EU flag and the national distinguishing signs as a landmark across the EU countries, i.e. an EU flag and DK in the case of Denmark. Therefore, when buying a car, you can choose whether the car should have a registration number with the EU flag and the letters DK, or whether you want a registration number that does not show any symbol, but simply shows the vehicle's registration number. The advantage of the EU registration plate is that it also acts as a landmark, so you don't have to put an DK sticker on the car when driving in other EU countries. It is not certain that all drivers are familiar with the latter, but those are the rules. Here it is important for me to stress that, in relation to both EU law and Danish law, it is a voluntary arrangement. So it's an offer to be able to choose this special plate without a distinguishing mark. The Danish People's Party's proposal means that it will be possible to choose a license plate with Dannebrog and the letters DK integrated. Until now, this has meant that the marking of vehicles bearing the landmark can only be done using the EU registration plate or by the separate sticker. In this view, a formwork number plate will have no practical effect. With regard to the motion for a resolution, the provisions of the Vienna Convention have been re-examined and it appears that an amendment to the Vienna Convention was made in 2006. That change may allow the distinguishing letters and flags of the country of registration to appear on the registration plate without the need for a separate sticker to be affixed to the vehicle. The change was justified by the fact that the same practice was already recognised in the EU. And if this preliminary and immediate assessment is correct, a plate bearing the Dannebrog will, as a starting point, have the same practical effect as the EU number plate and that is. comply with the provisions of the Vienna Convention. The Ministry of Taxation, together with the Ministry of Transport, which has the responsibility for the area, including for information on the Vienna Convention and the EU Regulation, is discovering whether this amendment to the Convention applies to Denmark, how the amendment is compatible with the EU Regulation, and what possibilities this may entail in relation to the marking of plates with Dannebrog as requested by the proposers. If it turns out to be an option to label the license plate with Dannebrog, there are a number of practical consequences that need to be mapped out. First of all, it is necessary to decide whether there should be freedom of choice and, ultimately, it is a political choice between the EU registration plate, the form tag plate and a neutral license plate or perhaps something fourth that could be imagined. Secondly, we must do away with ourselves whether we want to risk politicising the Danish plates or whether they should simply be designed for purely practical reasons. By introducing a form tag plate, I imagine that people will see more people's choice of license plate as an expression of a certain political attitude. And in the end, it is also a political choice if you want to. Then we must also be aware that, in relation to the information that I have, we do not know about other EU countries which use the national flag only on the plate as a distinguishing mark. And then there may also be practical consequences for drivers, who need to be examined more closely. Not all EU countries have ratified the Vienna Convention, for example. Ireland and Spain, and this means that the Vienna Convention's possible use of Dannebrog on the license plate does not apply in these countries. This will continue to require the use of a sticker for driving in these countries if the registration plate is used with Dannebrog. On the other hand, all EU countries, including Ireland and Spain, are subject to the EU Regulation, so that the EU registration plate is directly valid in those countries. This underlines the practical importance of the EU registration plate, as it gives drivers security by being able to drive around the whole of the European Union without having to familiarise themselves with the national rules of some countries. The sum of these factors means that the government, on the present basis and as the resolution stands, rejects the proposal, but instead will inform the parties about the outcome of this cover-up work when the practical consequences arise and invite the proposers to a meeting of the Treasury to discuss what to do and make the political choices that might be made when we know what the practical legal framework for them is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142300	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mikkel Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142303	Thank you to the Minister for Taxation for his introductory remarks. And I would like to acknowledge that this is the most positive reception of this motion for a resolution I have had during the time it has been tabled. It has been put forward once in the past and then in a version which is similar to this one back in 2009, and there it was swept off the track very consistently by the ministers who accepted it. But I sense that there is a bleeding in the government and that we would like to go in and look at the legal aspects of it, i.e. whether there are any legal obstacles to it. Then you can have a political discussion afterwards if there are no legal obstacles. But I would still like to hear the government: if there are no legal obstacles to wearing plates with Dannebrog, will the government be prepared to introduce it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142356	Thank you for the question. I understand, sir. Mikkel Dencker is a little puzzled that there is suddenly a new assessment. And if we compare the dates when the motion for a resolution was tabled and when the amendment was made, that is, in 2006, we can say that some information has been given to the Folketing, which has not been entirely correct. Back in 2013, when the proposal was last dealt with under one of my predecessors as Minister of Taxation, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, it was among other things. that it would not be in conformity with the Vienna Convention. And that is very regrettable. I can also promise that I will look into what has happened in the case in question. Because we would have liked to make our political choices on as enlightened a basis as possible, and it is not satisfactory that we were not aware that the Vienna Convention had been amended. And I regret that both on my own behalf and on behalf of the Treasury, which is ultimately the responsible authority to ensure clarity on the rules in relation to the Vienna Convention. With regard to the question of the government's position, we are just waiting to take a final position on it until we know what the precise legal and practical framework is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142510	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142512	Well, thank you for your regret, too, on behalf of former tax ministers. I have to say that I did not intend to put the current tax minister on top of what previous tax ministers have done in their duties. But it's nice that we get the facts on the table so we can take a position from there. Then I would just like to comment on the Minister's preliminary remark that it could be a politicisation of the plates if you could choose between flags. To that I would just like to say that I believe that the current system is already a politicisation of the license plate. In fact, I have bought a car three times since the EU number plates came in, and I have very, very deliberately chosen, from my political point of view, license plates with no EU flag on them. So this is already a police mission.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142554	Yes, but that is one of the arguments that can be put forward. I would like to see it mostly as a comment. And I can say that I am certainly glad that Mr. Mikkel Dencker won't pin me on what my predecessors have done. However, I think it is appropriate that we are now in a situation in which some information has been provided which I think the ministers concerned have considered to be right at the time, and when we now know that there is something that indicates that they are not being examined, and that it is also regretted by the minister who is sitting at the moment, and that is what I am doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142631	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142636	Thank you. To start with this with Dannebrog, it is because there is also a tendency in the rest of Europe to actually put your flag on the plates if you are not in the EU. This applies to Albania and Belarus. We have the Faroe Islands that have a license plate with FO. The old Baltic countries had their own flags on the plates before becoming part of the European Union. Russia has it, Turkey has it, Ukraine has it. It's just to say that it may well be that a lot of these cars are driving around, which is then illegal, because they haven't put on this sticker, but there's a tendency that you can easily see where people come from if you look at this license plate. For example, Liechtenstein has FL on all its license plates. In the case of Andorra, it is high and noisy at the bottom, as are the weapons in both Monaco and San Marino. So you can say that this isn't something that could fight it so people couldn't figure out where you came from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142743	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And before we sort out what we're gonna do with this proposal, it's my wish that we get the legal framework fully figured out. However, I fully agree with the questioner that the argument that must lie behind it, namely that one should be able to see where the car comes from, can be met in many different ways. But that is why we still have to comply with the conventions that we have signed, and in those cases where we do not think they are sensible, we must work to change them. In this case, the problem has been that we have not been aware of the change that has then taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142821	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142823	I also think that where it has been in the past that you should opt out of the EU registration plate, there are many people who have been driving around with a license plate that they have not really had reason and desire to have, i.e. driving and advertising for the European Community. But when they discovered it too late, they kind of lived with it because it cost money to change it out. If you had an active choice now that you wanted an EU number plate, one with a flag or perhaps a completely neutral flag, then you would be standing right on these points, and there would be no policy in it. Then it was just how one's attitude towards it was, that is, whether it should be neutral, or whether one would like to have one's flag on or possibly drive around and advertise a political project south of the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142906	I actually saw it mostly as a comment from the questioner, and I do not think I can add so much more than that I look forward to it when we have now found out the legal and administrative constraints and challenges and opportunities that might be there to talk to the proposers about what we should then politically choose to do in the future. It is not, of course, the same as deciding to do what is in the proposal, but it is an historicly positive indication that we should at least be involved in discussing it with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142941	Thank you, Minister. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. First, it's sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424142949	I can, by and large, lean on the Minister's remarks here. So it comes as a surprise to me, too, that it seems to be incorrect what has been said about the previous times when this proposal has been discussed. At least that's my number. 2. I'm not sure I've been with all three times, sir. Mikkel Dencker has made the proposal, but it is at least my second time that I have been involved in discussing the proposal, and also in the third that the argument was that the proposal was almost impossible under the Vienna Convention. In fact, this does not seem to be the case, which is why the matter is suddenly slightly different. In any case, we need to take the time it is now taking to clarify properly what is really up and down the whole issue, where there are apparently some governments that are not fully up to date on what developments have been about the Vienna Convention or where there is no proper internal dialogue between the various ministries. It is impossible for us to know what is actually at stake. But we need to clarify that and then we will have to discuss it further at that time. We would also like to make a commitment on this. So I really hope that we can have a quiet and calm process about it in the Tax Committee in the coming time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143113	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143117	Should I understand that the Social Democrats would be in favour of having Dannebrog on the license plate, even if it turns out that you cannot do it without driving around with a sticker as part of the range, so that you can choose freely whether you want to drive around with a neutral plate or an EU record, or you want to send the signal that you advertise a little for your own country, what you come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143144	That is what I am saying we are willing to discuss once the situation has been fully understood in the context of this convention, which regulates internationally what the rules are like in order to make its country statement. I think it is a good thing that there has been the freedom of choice that there is now, where there is an EU number plate, where there is both an EU flag, but of course there is also a "DK" downstairs, or that you have been able to completely deselect it and have a license plate such as the one you have known for many years in Denmark, there is also one on my own car where there is therefore just the red wreath around and a country statement in a different way than right at the license plate, and we must then look at that when we know the answer. I think I might say that the choice is good as it is and that it is good that it has been there. I don't think most people have seen it as such a strong statement that I can sense that some of the representatives from the Danish People's Party are doing so, since 97% of people are. of the new vehicles today actually end up with the EU registration plate. But let's take a closer look.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143251	I think it turned out to be Mr. Knox. Mikkel Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143256	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen for a somewhat more positive reception of the proposal than the last time we discussed it. It was in 2013, and I don't remember if Mr. Jesper Petersen was rapporteur back in 2009, but we can check that out. But I would certainly like to sign for the kind reception of it, because I actually believe that there is a desire among many Danes to have this alternative. Because there are many people who would like to have this practical function, that you can see from their license plate that it is the nationality mark, and therefore there are many who choose the EU number plate. 97 percent, says Mr. Jesper Petersen, and it is of course more than you sometimes sense when it comes to supporting the EU project. So it could actually be that some would prefer a politically neutral plate, that is, with a flag on which everyone can identify. So will the Social Democrats not be willing to give the Danes that opportunity if there are no legal obstacles to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143350	We would like to take part in a debate on this and, like this, weigh up the various issues against each other, when we are wiser about what is then going on in the government to keep an eye on the decisions and amendments to the conventions that have been entered into, which seem to be not entirely under control. In this way, you can say to Mr. Mikkel Dencker's praise is that he is persistent in his case and that it also ends up getting the government's eyes to see that there have been some changes that they have not actually been aware of themselves. But let us take a closer look when we know the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143424	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143427	Thank you. I would just like to thank you for the information that this is 97%. by the Danes, who volunteered to drive around with the EU registration plate. Perhaps you could suggest to the Social Democrats that we should continue working on a proposal that in future we should not hold referendums on the European Union and then just see how many people run with EU license plates and how many people do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143452	Yes, it was a new development in the debate here, and I do not think I will agree with that. But Mr. So Jan E. Jørgensen's speech makes one think that if it were so violent an intervention for a very large part of the population, then the figure would probably be different. Nevertheless, let's look at what the possibilities are and what the consequences will be if you expand the choice on this point. After all, there is also the risk that you will actually politicize something that most people today do not think is political. But apart from that, I really think that the choice, as it has been up to now, has been excellent. Let us look at what the possibilities and consequences will be when we know the facts. I hope that the government will not only keep the Danish People's Party up to date, but the entire Tax Committee. That must certainly be my call.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143546	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. There are no more brief comments. We're moving on, I'm sorry? Yeah, it just came at the last minute. But we're gonna make it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143558	Yes, you usually have two brief comments, but I'm sorry. Well, let's take a look. But I fully agree with the Social Democrats that this is hardly the big problem in the population. In the same way, you do not hear Republican types like Mrs Zenia Stampe walking around complaining that she has to pay with coins where there is a portrait of Her Majesty the Queen on one side.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143619	I'd like to stay a little longer on the platform. But I actually saw it as a comment rather than a question, so it was given Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen then delivered here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143627	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jesper Petersen and move on to Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143635	Thank you. I understand that this proposal has been put forward several times before, and it is regrettable that it appears that it has been done sometimes without the right information. So I can largely agree with the Minister of Taxation's speech. Well, I think it is important that we have this thoroughly examined and then we have to make a decision on that basis. And it is regrettable that for so long we have been working on a false basis. However, on this basis, the Left would like to have examined this further before we take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143707	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143709	I am glad, then, that the Left would like to have examined this further. But is the Left also prepared to give the Danes the free choice if the possibility exists legally? The left tends to be very much in favour of free choice, so should we not also have free choice for formbrog number plates?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143729	In any case, I think it is essential that we now examine what is up and down in this before we take a real position on it, because that also depends on what exactly is possible. But we are at least open to look at it and also to talk to the Danish People's Party about it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143743	Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143748	Now it may well be seen as if you are not following it quite well, but it is just to have it repeated: is it the case that the Left, which is in charge of this matter of freedom of choice, would give the Danes this opportunity if there were legal basis for it in the broad sense of the European Union and with the Vienna Convention, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143831	Thank you for the question. As I also said to Mr. Henrik Brodersen's colleague, Mr. Mikkel Dencker, we'd like to have this looked into in more detail before we finally take a position on it. But we think it is important to have it examined. It is, of course, very regrettable that we have taken a position on a false basis so far. So for us it is important to have it examined, and then we have to look at it. We are open to dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143848	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143851	It is also because some percentages are mentioned in this Chamber • 97%, it seems to be a little high-ranking that shows that almost everyone chooses this completely, entirely voluntarily. I think it's based on something quite different, the very thing that you've deliberately had to deselect it when you've bought a new car. And those who haven't been made aware of it have then got a car delivered with this set of license plates, and then they've thought: Well, my God, it costs a lot of money to change them out. That is why I believe that the percentage is such. If the free choice had been there, and it should have been decided from the outset whether they should be neutral or with the EU mark, I think the percentages would have been quite, quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143933	Thank you. I think there are many speculations as to why percentages are as they are. I'm not gonna stand here and make myself smart. Well, I think you're gonna have to do some research to find out. One can always wonder in all things whether one had now asked differently or did something else. But I am simply referring to the fact that I think the system is working well as it is, but let us now check whether the other can be done and then we have to take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424143956	Thanks to Louise Schack Elholm. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424144007	Yes, you can actually scrap part of your speech now, because the information provided by the Minister changes the premise of the discussion here. You then raise another discussion: how could it be that for 12 years you are correct, Minister? Is that related to the cuts in the SKAT? Is that the reason why you simply do not have people who have time to understand what the rules are, or why? I think it's very interesting. I really think that we should have examined the reason for 12 years of 12 years to 12 years! We are in the Enhedslisten in favour of freedom of choice. As far as I am concerned, I am one of those who has opted out of an EU registration plate, so you have some trouble putting on an DK sticker if you are going to drive abroad; it is of course a bit cumbersome and my starting point is that as an EU opponent, I do not think it makes much sense to advertise this project. I think there are many others at least 3%. that you do not want an EU registration plate. I do not think it is right that we should be put at a disadvantage. Of course, you can see this issue as a little ridiculous, and perhaps I can be inclined to do so myself until I ask myself the question: why is it actually a European Union flag on the car? What is the real reason? Is there anyone who can give me the practical reason why there should be an EU flag if it is not precisely politics and ideology if it is not precisely politics and ideology? It is not, of course, the case that there are special tax rules in the European Union for cars or specific rules on speed in the European Union for cars. There isn't. What exists is national legislation in these areas. What is the reason why there should be an EU flag, other than ideology? I have sat there long enough in the European Parliament to know that this is not just about cars. There was a Social Democrat MEP, Christa Prets, from Austria, who at one point in the European Parliament suggested that when there was the Champions League in football, the EU flag should be raised and when there were European championships in football, the EU anthem was to be played. You can see it: a Russian team meets a Swiss team in the Champions League final, and then you have to listen to the EU anthem and see the EU flag. It just says something about the fact that it is not they who question this that have started an ideological discussion. The ideological discussion is there, and there are some who want to use this EU flag to inculcate a very specific view, and you can do so as long as you have the majority to do so. I just think, in the name of choice, that people should have the opportunity to choose something else. If I am to criticise the proposals of the Danish People's Party, it is in fact for the fact that there is not enough freedom of choice. Not because I would suggest that you can put on a red tab, but I certainly think that you should have the opportunity to have an EU flag if you want it to be all right. If you want it, an DK on the license plate is a third option, or nothing at all; then you have to get by with a sticker. Well, the choice in the center here! And I believe that this is, in fact, a depoliticisation, in contrast to the politicisation imposed by the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424144404	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424144407	Thank you for receiving this proposal. I think I could have made the speech that Mr. Søren Søndergaard just held, because I fully agreed with the content. The central point of a license plate is that you can identify the car and that, when the car is driving abroad, you can identify which country it is from. And I have to say that using the EU flag makes it actually harder to identify a car, because if there is a car with an EU flag on it and it says 'P' below, is it Poland or Portugal it is from? You have to have special knowledge to see that. But it would be somewhat easier if it were the flag of Poland or Portugal that was on the plate. But in fact, my question is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard also: Is Enhedslisten prepared to support that we get these license plates with Dannebrog on board if only as an alternative to the EU flag, although the most natural thing would be that we just had a license plate either with Dannebrog on or no symbols at all, because it would be politically neutral and also meet the need for identification, without one being able to think in these federalist thoughts, as I can hear Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard has about the reason why EU flags should be on the license plates?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424144514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424144515	Why do I not have EU flags on my car? I've chosen that precisely because I think it's a little weird to put something like that on the car. But I just want to say that what we are going to support, and I hope that we can achieve that, even after the twelve-year investigations in the Treasury, is a proposal that gives full freedom of choice. There I mentioned the four possibilities that exist. That is to say, you have an EU flag if you want it; you have a Danish flag if you want it; you just have the distinguishing sign for the country; you have it if you want it; and then you have that there are no distinguishing marks on, but you can put a label somewhere on the car, as it is at the moment, if you do not have an EU flag. These are the choices we find. And I guess no one in favour of freedom of choice would mind. So I think we can reach that conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424144615	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. We move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424144623	Thank you for that, President. However, as several speakers have said, this is a resolution which has been tabled several times and which is about the possibility of choosing a license plate with Dannebrog on it. The Liberal Alliance has previously voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and we are still away as a party in favour of the resolution. We are, of course, voting with the government, but as the tax minister has just explained, the legal possibilities for implementing the resolution now seem to be better. That is why we are going to press for the resolution to become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424144718	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. We move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424144726	In the alternative, we believe that the Danish flag should gather. That is what we think of the European Union as well. We had not just considered the question of whether there should be a Danish flag on the plates, but I think it has been a fine debate. There is simply an DK on the plates today, as I understand it, in addition to the EU flag. I think that far along the way one can feel that one's relationship with Denmark is indicated on the license plate, but I find it difficult to say no to the possibility of having a Danish flag on a Danish car. This is not something that we will stand firm to oppose. I think it is quite all right that you want to have a Danish flag on your car. However, I think there are many other options for a car. One can have all sorts of things inside the car, one can enjoy the DK that is on the license plate, but if it comes to finding out that there is a legal possibility that it can be with an DK on, then we have to look at what there are also several parties who have said. I just think that the important thing here is that today there is an opportunity to have a neutral registration number or one with a European flag which also includes an DK. That is why I think we really do have an alternative, and it is of course important that there is an alternative. If there's another one, we're gonna have to look at it. In relation to whether this actually divides more than it gathers, I would say immediately that I think it does, because it will be such a choice between Denmark and the European Community. I think that is a pity, because we need to find out some way to be in it together. In the alternative, we are going to embark on an election campaign here for the next parliamentary elections, where we stand together with Diem25, where we are so much going in and looking at what kind of problems we know about European cooperation. So it doesn't matter if you go in and look critically at European cooperation in no way. On the contrary, shutting down the critical debate that may exist would be headless. I was wondering if I could come up with some good reasons, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard called for an EU flag. I think that there must be some good reasons, other than that it is just branding of the cooperation. It must at least be the case that you want others to see that you are part of the community that you have joined, where you give and take. The motion for a resolution, which has been tabled, makes some comments about the fact that it has been agreed that when driving in the European Union you should. So we need to explore whether there are any good reasons why there should be an EU flag. But I think it is important to take part in this debate too, so that it does not become unnecessarily politicised, that when we are involved in an EU cooperation, that is, when all Denmark is involved, there is nothing wrong with the fact that we also partake of it. If someone doesn't want to sign it, they can choose the license plate where it doesn't appear on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145030	There are brief comments, and first it is from Mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145034	However, Denmark is not only a member of the European Union; we are also a member of the United Nations, a member of the Nordic Council; we are a member of many international organisations, for which I believe there is more popular support than there is for the European Union, because the European Union is so politician. I think I can answer Mr. René Gade's question about why it is that there should be EU flags on the license plates. It is about the European Union wanting to surround itself with the same symbols that a state usually has... you have a flag, a license plate, a coin and an anthem that you play on festive occasions. I think that is why it is, and in the long term it should make the EU project slide down more easily with the Danes. That's probably what's behind it. In fact, I agree that it should be a symbol that collects, which is on the plates, and I believe that Dannebrog does, because when you use Dannebrog to identify a car, it just shows that the owner lives in Denmark, and there's nothing political about that, it's a sober statement, while the EU flag has nothing to do with the license plates from an identification point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145145	That is also why my first task today in taking the floor was actually that this should be a rapporteur speech that did not divide, and I think we can agree on that too. There's no need for that. For it is a pity if the Danish flag becomes a symbol of something that is enjoyed by some parties, and at the same time something that is not enjoyed by others; someone in the population who chooses it for, and others who choose it from. So, Denmark has a flag, and it is the Danish flag. We use it, and it may be that we need to get better at using it. However, I think it is crucial when you make a resolution like this that you also take on board whether it is in fact that the way it is presented divides more than it brings together. I do not think there is anything wrong with raising the proposal here, but one can say that we have the opportunity today. It is pointed out that, as far as DK is concerned, prior knowledge is required in order to be able to decode such two letters. That is something that must be done with a national flag, but I think it is fine, it has been taken up. We are not opposed to one day being able to say yes to it. I think we have the opportunities that meet our needs today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145245	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145249	Now, sir, he just succeeded. Mikkel Dencker to get ahead of me, for I would also ask when Mr. René Gade uses the argument that it is a symbol of something that has been signed into and joined, if we could then make a suggestion that the UN flag be put on? Because it's kind of like something you've signed up for. There are even Danish soldiers who have sacrificed their lives in the service of the United Nations. And that's something we're usually very proud of, so it could be an idea. Then, as with people in space, we could mark very clearly where we belong, namely on earth. Could we agree on a compromise proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145336	Whichever party we sent this out to, I think we'd get a lot of exciting suggestions about what should actually be on those license plates. I won't deny it, sir. Søren Søndergaard is coming with us. However, I do not think it is essential to stand and say what other alternatives could be. Today we have a license number where there is an EU flag and there is DK on the bottom, and then you can choose that you don't want anything standing. I think that's excellent. This shows that you are part of larger communities. You are welcome to make suggestions for everything else. We have it here in the Tax Committee, and there are some things in relation to a registration fee, there is a registration certificate that is all sorts of registrations. Basically, it is about registering which cars are driving around. So I'm thinking that it doesn't really matter what other symbols we put on. After all, this has some kind of context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145422	Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145426	Thank you. Thank you for the warm reception of it and for looking at whether we should now have this freedom of choice. The rapporteur says that it might be possible to split up whether you were for one or whether you were for the other. It is precisely the fact that gathering one's national symbol, the flag in particular, cannot be divisive. In fact, we already have this today, when you have the European flag on your license plate, or you have nothing. I think that advertising your country would be more neutral than, for example, a political project that you might not agree with at all. So I am pleased with the reception given by the alternative to this proposal. And then we have world records in different types when it comes to the design of license plates. Soon 20 years ago, it was also possible to write Grandma and Grandpa and everything else on the license plate. So we're so kind of gasping it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145540	I think I'm just gonna sum up and tell you this isn't gonna separate us. The alternative will probably not come up with this proposal. We put forward so many others that we find interesting. I believe that we have the alternatives to show that you are from Denmark and that you are part of the European Community, by having a license plate showing it, and then we have one where there is nothing. It's interesting to us. Then I should like to say straight away that neither I nor anyone else can pre-discount that we are going to be positive in the sense that we will vote for such a proposal here if possible, that is to say, legally. But I am just saying that there is no reason to divide anyone at this stage when we do not even know whether it will be a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145618	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145625	I think it is perhaps appropriate to put into the debate that if you want to use your car to mark a political position, you are free to do so. I know there are a number of politicians who do that when there is an election campaign... put our names and party colors etc. On the car. It is therefore also perfectly permissible to put a flag on your car if you feel like it. You might even be able to paint the car in the colors of a flag if you wanted to. In the discussion here about license plates we in the Radical Left have the approach that they should work in relation to what is intended, namely to recognise where the car comes from and to see some numbers and some letters so that you can find out who owns the car. We also think it is very logical that in Europe we should come together and make common rules on what is a license plate so that we can recognise cars when they cross the border. I also think it is very logical that the license plate that a Danish citizen buys the right to put on his car may apply in other countries, because the vast majority of Danes drive enough to another country at some point. Whether there is an EU flag on or a flag or something else, we do not have a great deal of opinion on. As the debate has shown, the government or ministries have found out that some rules may be different from what they have thought. Let's see what kind of rules you find apply, and then let's take it from there. We do not have the great ideological views on which flag is on or whether there should be a flag on the license plate at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145807	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145811	I should like to ask the rapporteur briefly: if it is legally possible, will the Radical Left help to give Danes the opportunity to have Dannebrog on the license plate instead of the EU flag?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145823	Yeah, if you can use the license plate in another country. I think it would be a little stupid to give people a license plate, which then does not apply in another country, because most people travel enough to another country. If this is possible within the framework we have decided with other countries, there is no problem with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145842	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145844	Regardless of whether such plates may have been legally approved, does the rapporteur not think that it would probably be the case that the vast majority of police officers in our neighbouring countries can understand that this car is from Denmark if there is a flag on the plate and there is DK downstairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145905	Yeah, I think so. I just think it would be a bit too bad for people to end up with some kind of fine in Germany, because their license plate has probably not been valid in Germany. I think it would be a little silly if we gave our citizens license plates, which means that they could risk a fine in another country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145922	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. We move on to Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424145933	What a drama we have today in Parliament about the mystery of what has happened over the last 12 years in this area. I understand that DF is resubmitting this proposal, because if you are an EU opponent, you would rather have Dannebrog on your license plate. I think that's fine. In the SF we have a very pragmatic approach to this: if it does not change anything in relation to the Vienna Convention, that is to say the joint cooperation we have on how to recognise license plates, and for the practical importance it should have, people should of course be allowed to put Dannebrog on their license plate. There's no way we think there's anything wrong with it. When the proposal was discussed in 2012 or 2013, SF had a minister on this post, and I also had to reread what he said then. It was very factual in relation to the assessment of the Council Regulation on registration plates etc., namely that one should either choose the EU flag or have DK as the distinguishing letters alone. After all, this is a misunderstanding which we have cleared up today. Personally, I would say that there are more exciting things you can use Dannebrog for, namely in relation to national feeling, at birthdays or having it hanging in your flagpole. But if you want to have it on your license plate, we're quite comfortable with it being an option. So if there are no practical problems in that we must clear it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424150131	The next one is sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424150135	Thank you. This motion for a resolution, tabled by DF, is about whether to have a flag on your license plate instead of an EU flag. In the Conservative People's Party we really love our Dannebrog we think it is one of the most beautiful things we have in the world and, as the alternative rapporteur said, it is also one of the things that brings us together as people. So we have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that we need to have this opportunity to get Dannebrog on the Danes' license plates. There has then been this misinterpretation of the Vienna Convention in the past, which might open up the door to at least that is what the Treasury is going to investigate now that we can actually introduce it here in Denmark. And we look at this very positively. It is clear that one must then have found a model for how we can put in practice the option of choosing Dannebrog on the license plate, if this study in the Treasury ends up in that it can be a workable road. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here, but we would very much like to welcome the introduction of this as an optional arrangement if the tax department's investigation opens up the possibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424150251	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no brief comments. So it is actually the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424150308	Back in October 2009, the first Danish cars were fitted with EU registration plates. Unfortunately, the fact that these license plates were introduced in Denmark was not a move that came as a surprise to the Danish People's Party. As you know, the government is, of course, and it is also the previous governments that are convinced supporters of the European Union in its present form, and it is, of course, eagerly drawn towards further development towards the United States of Europe. It is not surprising, therefore, that Danish governments are below the fashion model that has spread to other EU countries, namely to put EU flags on the plates. I think it has to be said that it has been a great pity for changing governments that the Danes, in the past, have not been so enthusiastic about the European Union, at least not as much as the politicians in the support parties might have wanted. This has been demonstrated by the fact that the Danes have on several occasions voted against further development of the European Union towards a European federal state. Therefore, it is also reasonable to conclude that the long-term strategy behind the idea of providing EU flag plates is that the future development of the EU will slide down more easily with the troublesome voters if they are accustomed to look at EU symbols every day, because the EU symbol is and remains a political symbol. It is just to consider the decision to print the EU flag on Danish plates as a political manifestation and as an attempt to sneak EU symbols into the Danes' everyday lives through the back door. Therefore, one can just imagine what the next move might be. Is it going to be like the EU flag with Dannebrog, or is it going to be another attempt, in a few years' time, to abolish the crown in favour of the euro? In the Danish People's Party, we find it unreasonable that the Danes' cars should thus be turned into pillars of advertising for a political project, and our attitude is not milder by giving the attentive car owner the opportunity to opt out of the EU flag on his license plate. Of course, on paper it is voluntary to have an EU number plate or not, but in fact the EU number plate is not only favoured through formal channels, but also by many car dealers who make the choice on behalf of the buyer. Another example is that the EU registration plate actually has a very obvious competitive advantage, namely that it has a nationality mark, which we have discussed a great deal today, and that means that car owners do not have to buy an DK sign if they want to drive in their car abroad. This competitive advantage leads to the fact that most of the newly registered cars in Denmark, which operate on Danish roads, are equipped with EU registration plates. I do not believe that it is necessarily because all drivers are glowing supporters of the European Union and want to use their car to advertise the project, but perhaps it is just a matter of the practical detail that you do not put the sticker on your car when you want to drive abroad. And perhaps it is also for many people that the car dealer had chosen for the driver. In the Danish People's Party, we do not believe that it is reasonable for the Danes to be forced to advertise a political project which many people do not like or at least are sceptical of. That is why we have chosen to table the motion for a resolution here, with which we propose the introduction of registration plates with flag flags instead of the EU flag and which the car owner should be free to choose on an equal footing with the EU registration plate. For Dannebrog, unlike the EU flag, is a politically neutral symbol with which all Danes can well identify. In this way, we will ensure that the Danes will be able to choose a registration number where the nationality mark is included without the need to make your car a piece in the promotion of the European Union. Finally, I would just like to thank you for the debate. I would also like to thank you for the actually relatively positive reception of our proposal. It has actually been a bit surprising to see when you consider the two previous readings of the proposal that have been made here in the Folketing. So I look forward to hearing about the outcome of the work that the tax minister has started, and I can at least acknowledge that if the possibility of formbrog number plates is so legally present, then the Danish People's Party would certainly very much like to enter into a very factual and constructive dialogue with the other parties of the Danish Parliament and the government on how such a scheme can be developed. So thank you for receiving me today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424150752	Maybe the third time's lucky. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424150808	We open the negotiations and give the floor to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424150826	Thank you for the floor, President. After all, we are discussing today the motion for a resolution from the Alternative, which is about increasing the tobacco tax by 75%. The proposal aims to improve public health, prevent smoking-related diseases, while at the same time preventing more children and young people from smoking. It is to such an extent sympathetic thoughts behind the motion for a resolution and ideas that we in the government agree with the alternative, namely that the aim of the proposal is to reduce smoking and, in particular, to get fewer children and young people to start smoking. This is in line with the government's goal that no children and young people should smoke by 2030. However, it is far from unproblematic to carry out such large tax increases as the alternative suggests. If tobacco taxes were to be increased by 75%, as the alternative suggests, one would immediately think that this would benefit both public health and the Treasury. However, the reality is different, namely that such large tax increases will result in a sharp increase in cross-border trade and probably also in the illegal trade in cigarettes, which is currently estimated to be at a very low level. Therefore, the impact on State revenue is ultimately expected to be negative. In fact, the proposal is expected to lead to a permanent reduction in revenue after reflows and behaviour of more than 300 million. kr. So if the proposal is to be implemented, it will cost society and the Treasury 300 million per annum. kr. Tobacco consumption is expected to fall by over 20%. As a result of the alternative proposal, but at the same time, tobacco and cigarettes are expected to rise from just under 7%. 30 per cent. of consumption. And anyone who has moved to some of our neighbouring countries, and most of them, knows that it is easy to get to Sweden. It is even easier if you live in Jutland to get to Germany. We have to deal with the pricing of tobacco in the countries concerned. Of course, there is by nature a great deal of uncertainty in this assessment, as we have no experience of correspondingly large tax increases. It is possible that it will not go as wrong as it is estimated, but, on the other hand, it is also possible that the increase will result in even less revenue than provided. We simply do not know the exact consequences. We do not know what the precise consequences will be, but we know that the risk of increasing cross-border trade, illegal trade and lost tax revenue is therefore considerable. We have previously seen how black markets develop in Denmark, and this happens quite quickly. Prices in relation to our neighbouring countries are at present roughly at the same level as the Danish ones. The proposed increase will mean that the average price of a package of cigarettes will rise from DKK 40. for 63 kroner. It will bring Denmark among the three most expensive countries in the EU, only surpassed by England and Ireland. Compared to Germany, there will be a saving of over 20 DKK. per package or over 800 DKK. for 800 pieces cigarettes, which are the indicative quantity which may be carried for personal consumption from another EU country, are subject to compliance with these rules. Unfortunately, however, we have to recognise that when it comes to smuggling, the rulefulness is quite limited. It is a saving that will quickly get a lot of Danes to buy cigarettes across the border, simply because there is a good business in it for them. The Government wishes to keep track of developments in the tobacco market and it is important to strike the right balance between the government's objective of reducing tobacco consumption and thus improving public health while avoiding significant negative effects on border trade and on state revenue. And border trade seems to have been declining for a number of years, while consumption has to some extent stagnated. It may therefore be necessary to look again at a tax increase. For the government, however, it is impossible to carry out such extreme tax increases as the alternative suggests, as the risk of significant negative consequences is far too high. By the way, the government also has a tax stop, which we naturally want to comply with. Although the intention may be good enough, for these reasons the government cannot support the motion for a resolution to increase tobacco taxes by 75%, but we in the government have an active desire to ensure that fewer Danes smoke and that those who smoke smoke smoke less, and especially that children and young people do not start smoking. Fortunately, there are many other ways to do this than by increasing taxes. I believe that the initiatives which, among other things, include: is based in the health minister's area, in a number of cases will be able to compensate for the effect, in relation to the proposal here before us, and that we can otherwise reduce tobacco consumption and, in particular, cause children and young people to stop smoking. It is at least obvious to imagine this, even when we look at children and young people's access to illegal drugs, which are unfortunately quite large, because it is flourishing in educational institutions and in nightlife and other things. When we look at the possibility for children and young people to consume alcohol, even below the age limits, it is reasonable to believe that if we create a large black market, a large cigarette smuggling market, where we can smuggle cigarettes into Poland and sell them at prices significantly lower than what we can buy taxed cigarettes for today, then many young people will throw themselves at it. It is easy to imagine that such an increase in taxation, which has been proposed here by the Alternative, can in fact prove counterproductive in relation to the fine intentions behind it. That is why I would like to warn strongly against increases of this magnitude, as the alternative refers to, and therefore the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151459	It just gave rise to a few questions. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151504	Thank you, and I would like to thank you for a very positive speech by the Minister, whom I see as much more positive than last year, so I am very pleased. I would like to address the issue of cross-border trade, because that is what is being mentioned, and it is also because it is not the Minister for Health or the Health rapporteurs who are so much in the debate. After all, border trade has halved between 2013 and 2016, and compared to the soda-ash tax where it was abolished, there is still significant sales of soda-ash with border trade. Is it not true that we have a great deal of uncertainty about the effect of border trade and that the studies that exist are typically from the United States, as the Council of Knowledge on Prevention writes, and this cannot be fully transferred in parallel to Denmark, and that it is probably not children and young people who are the target group for what the Minister is talking about here, so for cross-border trade?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151616	However, when border trade has fallen and falls on tobacco, it is because there is nothing to save. We know, and we know this from experience in a large number of areas, that the reason why people choose to cross-border trade is, of course, that they can save some money, and it has traditionally been possible to do so on sodas, on candy, on spirits, and also on cigarettes in the past. I think we all know stories about how to drive to the border to buy some of these goods on which there were low taxes. The problem is that if you have first created the structure for it, it is very difficult to get rid of it again. That is why we are in a situation today where there are very few contraband cigarettes in Denmark, and if we do that tax increase, there will be many more, and then it is obvious for those who sell these illegal cigarettes to turn to the audience who might be interested in them, and in many cases it will also be some who are below the age limit for buying alcohol and, in this case, tobacco.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151732	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151733	I stand here with the report by the Council of Knowledge on Prevention, which among other things. As regards frontier trade, it is pointed out, as is the second frontier trade report which has been prepared, that it is very uncertain, because there is really no evidence that this explosive sale will take place across the border on cigarettes. I would just like to hear the Minister about something: is it not true that even if the price was significantly increased in Norway it is a country that we can compare ourselves with • we have not lost revenue on tobacco sales, even though sales have fallen because taxes have risen accordingly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151823	I would like to look into that, but if the questioner says so, it is certainly right. Now I am elected in Northern Jutland, and I can tell you that it is pouring in with Norwegians who buy cheaper goods in Denmark, including tobacco. The same thing's gonna happen here. Norway is so in the lucky situation that their geography makes it a little harder to make border trade than if you live in Denmark, and therefore I would say that there is plenty of evidence that if you make tax increases to this extent, it will have significant border trading effects. Then you can discuss how big they will be, but they will be essential. It is also because tobacco, unlike soft drinks and beer, does not weigh very much, it is easy to hide, and it is easy to smuggle in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151911	Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424151914	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think this is also the first time I have been involved in a two-round proposal. Last year's reception was also fine on the part of the Minister, but with less popular support, I think, and I actually find that there is very much support in the public to do something about this cigarette price thing now. Then, of course, the economy must be controlled at the same time, as the tax minister also says. However, my question is that it is relatively incredibly cheap in Denmark to buy cigarettes in relation to our purchasing power. At least that shows the figures I have just been presented. I think I have seen somewhere that out of 37 countries it is in fact only Luxembourg where buying cigarettes is cheaper compared to purchasing power than in Denmark, and then I just think: is it not the wrong place to leave it? Well, those who drive to the border will drive to the border. There are just a lot of other young people at home who are not going to drive to the border, and I think that it is in relation to the young people we put in here. So even if there may be a cash check to go up, is it not now and here that we have to put in place, when the population is actually ready to get an increase in relation to cigarettes, when it is so unheard of cheap in Denmark compared to very many of the other countries with which we are also working?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152023-2	So, the comparison that has been made that, according to Denmark's Statistics, Denmark is the second cheapest country out of 37 European countries to be a smoker in is, in my view, not fair. For this comparison only applies when comparing cigarette prices with other household expenses, and this type of price adjustment is not true for the possibility of increasing taxes without derived negative frontier trading effects, since Danes have the possibility of border trading in other European countries with significantly lower prices, and Danish taxes and the price of cigarettes are above the EU average. So I think it is a little tricky to come up with the comparison that I have seen that a number of excellent newspapers have made headlines on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152118	It is precisely the purchasing power that I am dealing with, and I assume that the figures are correct when they are provided. But it is not for the Minister to be exonerated here either, because we are actually looking at the matter sensibly, in other words both sides. But I am just surprised that in Denmark we have a purchasing power of young people who make cigarettes so remarkably cheap compared to the countries that are then compared to, knowing that the unit price may be higher. But it's the purchasing power it's all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152150	You can do a lot of calculations. I also believe that the purchasing power of young people could be calculated, and it is certainly greater now than it was 15 years ago or 40 years ago. So if you hold the two things against each other, even if you make a sharp increase in the price, there will still be a lot of young people who can afford to smoke, and that is why I think you should not stare blindly at the fact that tax increases are the only way forward to achieve the objective of having a smoke-free generation. The government considers it more sensible to discuss some of the other ways than just discussing the proposal that is here from the Alternative. However, we agree with the ideas behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152235	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152238	Thank you, Minister. Has the Minister given any thought to the savings we could make in health care by ensuring that higher taxes on cigarettes are introduced, because we know that this is something that kills people and, above all, if we can prevent young people from starting to smoke, what we are really proposing in our national health policy objectives? But my specific question to the Minister is: has the Ministry made calculations which say that this is not worthwhile, so that the Minister is afraid of losing money to cross-border trade against what we then save in the health service? 'Cause I think this is gonna be really, really positive. I do not agree with the Minister's approach to border trade. I do not think the Minister is right in his predictions. And will it not pay for what we save in health care because people simply become less ill and, above all, we avoid young people getting into smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152338	We have not calculated what is saved in health care. Various reports have been made on this. On average, people's life expectancy will be shorter, but vice versa some of the really high costs in the last few years of life lie when you live for a long time. So I think you can figure it out in different ways. I have to make reservations, because I do not know if that is true, but I have great faith in the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, and the last time we discussed the proposal, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that a cancer control study showed that if you stopped smoking before the age of 30, you could not detect a reduction in life expectancy. And provided that it is right and that is how I remember it from last year, when we discussed it, it shows that it is not quite easy to settle that question. But it goes without saying that there will be a saving in health care costs if no Danes smoked, just as there would be if no Danes drank alcohol and all lived healthy and cultivated exercise every day. Then we would be a much more efficient society. But there must also be room for a personal choice in a free society such as the Danish one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152455	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152455-2	I'm definitely not talking about taking the free choice from people. I'm just talking about making it more expensive. And now I have some figures here about cancer prevention. We can prevent 85,000 cases of cancer for the next 30 years if the proportion of smokers falls from the current 16 per cent. 5%. of the population in 2030. After all, these are 85,000 cancers, so let us look at the personal consequences of smoking. It's 85,000 people being affected by this. Is it not worth the price for the government to help raise the tax on cigarettes so that we could prevent so many cancers? And in the end, it would also be a good business for the government. I think it is a pity that the government will not be helping to enter into a completely constructive debate on whether we should not raise the price of cigarettes significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152556	This debate is welcome to the government, and it also applies to the points I have made in my speech. After all, there is not only a cancer that is related to smoking, but there is a health connection. I'm just troubleshooting how to make it up. On the other hand, if I may say so to the Alternative, I must also with a glimpse in my eye that one might have to consider the rigour of smoking being quite awful and must be very expensive, but people should be allowed to grow medical cannabis at home in their backyard or on their balcony. And I am very surprised that all those who advocate a smoke-free generation say that when it comes to hashish, we must give increased opportunities to consume the drug. I don't think there's much coherence in that. So I think both our parties and both the government and the opposition can do things to re-evaluate their views, in other words to ensure that we get fewer young people to smoke. As far as the government is concerned, we do not believe that this is the most effective way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152651	With that, we say thank you to the tax minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that's Mr. Knox. Jesper Petersen, the Social Democrat, who is in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424152705	In the past, social democracy has helped to increase the taxes on cigarettes. The fees were increased in 2012 and again in 2015. We have supported it because it helped to make harmful tobacco consumption more expensive. This could be done in relation to cross-border trade, which has, moreover, been reduced, among other things. As a result of a change in tax policy in Denmark in recent years. If we cannot support the proposal here for a significant increase in the tax on cigarettes, it is precisely because Denmark also always has to think through the conditions of cross-border trade and illegal trade. The authors of the motion for a resolution know that too, because this is a well-known discussion, where the positions are hardly very different than they were when we last had the discussion quite exactly one year ago. However, I would like to stress very strongly and also as strongly as one can now say that I sympathise with the alternative's intention of the proposal. I think that the recent figures that we see, which show a stagnation in the decline in tobacco consumption in Denmark and that young people are definitely increasing cigarette consumption, are very worrying in relation to public health. It is also a concern which, fortunately, has reached our Prime Minister, who has said to today's Medicine that smoking is a huge problem. Smoking shortens people's lives, it gives fewer good years of life for a lot of people, and it entails high costs for health care. That is why we must reduce smoking, especially among children and young people. That is why we have also proposed that the government should draw up a national action plan so that we can address that problem. The proposers of the alternative are also well aware of the great commitment of the Social Democrats to this issue, including: because the health rapporteurs from the Social Democracy, the Alternative, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radicals here on 18 April had a common chronicle in Jyllands-Posten with the message that Denmark needs a plan for tobacco prevention. The Crown is concerned, among other things, with: some quite effective proposals to reduce the consumption of children and young people and the fact that children and young people are starting to smoke at all. That is, for example, the case. the idea of neutral cigarette packets, that packages become less visible in shops and that a tobacco licence should be applied for if you want to sell cigarettes, and a licence that could also be lost if the store is still selling to minors. One of the problems that has been identified is that shops sell to minors, even if they are not allowed to do so. It simply needs to have a greater consequence. All of this is well known to the rapporteurs and, above all, the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, because they themselves have been involved in the writing of this chronicle. I just need to say this so that we can be sure that we are as concerned in this area and that young people are starting to smoke as the alternative suggests in the proposal. And I need to say this before I have to refuse to support an increase of 75%, as the alternative suggests. We believe that, with such a sharp increase, we are beyond the balance sheets we should bear in mind when working on tax policy in Denmark at least on the basis of what we know at the present time. We know that cigarettes, in particular, are associated with a high price sensitivity. There is also a risk of increased illegal trade. This is something they have experienced in Norway. There are doubts as to how much this will be the case in Denmark, but it is a risk. When the cross-border trade argument is important, it's all about economics, about retail jobs, not least in South and South Jutland, where I come from, and then it's all about if the cigarettes are just bought abroad, they're not healthier than cigarettes bought in Denmark. So we would very much like to work with the Alternative to reduce smoking in Denmark and about fewer young people starting to smoke. We also have a number of common and effective proposals for this, as I have explained here. But an increase of 75%. We cannot therefore vote in favour at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153118	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153120	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I am a little surprised that the cross-border trade argument is being pulled forward, but I could finally hear why it was because of the retail trade in South Jutland. I am also a little surprised that the rapporteur says that the debate is not very different from last year, and then the rapporteur himself says that we have actually written a joint speech and that we had a question debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. So I think, fortunately, that a great deal has happened in the year that has passed. I would just like to ask a question with regard to young people, because the rapporteur himself mentions that it is important to get hold of young people, because there is an increase in the number of young people who smoke. In Britain prices have been raised and smoking rates have fallen from 26%. 19 per cent, and the biggest fall is among young people. Does the rapporteur recognise that the WHO and many more experts are saying this and that research results show that it is this instrument that helps in relation to young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153237-2	In fact, I think that the alternative somewhat misunderstood my remark that the positions are the same, because I agree with what Mrs Schnoor has said here, that there is a considerable discussion about this problem in Denmark and that what has happened since then, for example. is that there has been a new national health profile which I think must alert and give greater attention to the problem. And yet there is also one consideration which means that the position is the same that so significant an increase we think will simply go too far in relation to border trade, which we have actually tried to limit in other respects in recent years. I think that this is a positive development that has taken place in Britain, to which Mrs Schnoor refers, and we also believe, together with the alternative in the statements we have made together, that some of the measures we have about neutral cigarette packages, in other ways, increased prevention, stricter control, in relation to not selling to children and young people, when not being allowed, are also proposals that are effective in relation to children and young people, and which are also reported as effective by various experts, as Mrs Schnoor is also well aware of. So we want to go the same way, I can assure Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153406	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153407	Well, that's nice. I'm glad to hear that. But I'd still like to hang on to this price thing. Because the instruments mentioned by the rapporteur, on which we have written a speech, are something that we are also fully committed to. We're just going to go further and follow these advices that the price is crucial when it comes to young people. The Lancet, which is a very reputable journal, has just written that tobacco and alcohol taxes provide consistently higher prices, lower consumption, save lives and provide extra revenue that can be used to support public service. And in Norway, as I mentioned earlier, there has been no reduction in revenue compared to this shift. As far as border trade is concerned, having removed the levy on soft drinks, it has not actually been seen that border trade stopped. So how can the rapporteur be sure that this is not only positive, that is, that we will just have more young people who do not smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153515-2	In relation to the studies referred to by Mrs Pernille Schnoor, I would like to say first of all that I have no doubt that price has a significance. And that is also what is being referred to; that is how the general review of what it is for some measures works, as well as good remarks are given to some of the measures I have mentioned here in relation to reducing smoking. These are also the reasons why, both in 2012 and again in 2015, we have supported and co-initiated an increase in charges in this area. We must not only take such a general view, but also keep Denmark in mind all the time when we consider the possibilities of trading in other countries with these goods. And tobacco products are products which are easy to transport many of them across the border, and a great deal of savings can be made if we go too far too quickly. And that is just the balance that we are asking for all of us to take into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153620	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153622	Thank you. Can the rapporteur elaborate on what the Social Democratic Party will do to make a significant contribution to these young people who are starting to smoke? We see, among other things, that the tobacco companies are clearly targeting young people, and we know that it will have an amazing effect if we increase the price because it means that young people do not start smoking. So I'd like to know what the Social Democrat plan is. Now the Socialist rapporteur is constantly referring to the government and the government's foundations right now and here, but I would like to know what the Social Democrats want to do in earnest to tackle smoking and to combat young people starting to smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153707-2	I do not think this is a completely fair characteristic of either my speech or the comments I have made in response to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. After all, I started by explaining that we have been involved in tax increases in 2012 and 2015 for some of the same reasons as those contained in the alternative's arguments for the resolution here. And then I have referred from the contents of a chronicle written together with among others. The alternative health rapporteur, who had nothing to do with government policy. I would like to reiterate that some of the things that we are proposing, which we are proposing together with the alternative, and which also receive good reports of the experts in relation to their impact, among other things. It is about giving cigarette packets a more neutral appearance in relation to colours, that they can come under the counter and that a genuine tobacco licence is introduced, where shops selling tobacco must have a tobacco licence, in line with the need for an alcohol licence, so there is also a risk of losing the license to sell a product that many would like to be allowed to sell. In fact, I think there are a lot of people in the retail trade who would really like to contribute to these things, but it just has to be the same for all the shops, because otherwise there would be a competitive advantage for those who part out widely and do not put the packages under the counter. These are some of the measures that need to be taken: stricter controls, funding and reduced visibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153838	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153840	Thank you. I am sorry, but I heard the rapporteur's speech very well and also the answers to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Part of the answer to me was backward-looking, in terms of what has been done, and the rapporteur again points to these concrete measures. But all we know is that it is not enough, we know that it is not enough in relation to young people, so I would like to ask whether this is what the Social Democracy has to do with ensuring that young people do not start smoking when we know that this tax increase will help significantly that young people do not start. Does the Social Democratic Party not have other measures to take in relation to how we should deal with young people so that we ensure that they do not start smoking? I think it is really a pity that the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal, since we now know that it helps.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424153930-2	I do not really believe that there is any doubt among the health rapporteurs about the involvement of the Social Democratic Party in this matter, and that is also why our health rapporteur can write crowns with Mrs Pernille Schnoor and other good people in the opposition who work on these things, and I think we would go much further if there were a different majority in the Folketing, what we must hope will be there after the next elections. What we are then asking for is that we keep the balance that has to be maintained in relation to when we go too far, not only in relation to losing money on taxes, but also by simply getting a consumption of cigarettes imported from Germany instead of being sold in Denmark, and it is our view that this increase, with what we know at the moment, will give that effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154022	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. Next in line, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154032	Thank you. As you know, this is a proposal from the Alternative, which is about the government raising the tobacco tax by 75% by the end of 2018. The aim is very noble, namely that fewer people have to smoke and probably more importantly, I think it is emphasised that fewer people have to start smoking because it is unhealthy. I do not really believe that anyone is in any doubt that it is really unhealthy, but it is also expensive in advance. Today's price is about 40 kr., and if you adopt it here, it will mean that the price will rise to somewhere between 63 and 65 kr. But one might also ask: Why not, in fact, taller? If it's to deal with cancer and a lot of other secondary diseases, why not 100 kroner? or 150 kroner. or 200 kroner. For a package? The reason is quite simple: the effect will just be that it will be quite strong on cross-border trade. People will go and buy the cigarettes elsewhere. Poland, for example, has a cigarette package price of about DKK 26, and Germany has the same price as we have today, which means that there is actually not so much border trade now. However, it is clear that adopting a massive increase in cigarette prices will have an effect on cross-border trade. And although I understand from the debate with the previous rapporteurs that it is a little a question of doubt, I would say that one can see in the border trade report that with the price we have today, out of the total consumption of tobacco 5% is border trade. If you raise the price with the proposed price, it will be around 27-30 per cent, there will be cross-border trade. There has also been some debate that it has had no effect in Norway. In Norway, with their much higher price than in Denmark and also than is proposed here, it is 44 per cent. of the total consumption of tobacco purchased outside Norway. That is also what makes the tax minister finally come to the conclusion that this will cost money for the Treasury, up to 300 million. kr., to which no funding has been pointed out in the proposal. One might ask oneself: Does smoking become healthier by the Danes buying cigarettes abroad? Of course it does not. That is why the price we can set in Denmark depends on what our neighbouring countries are doing. Then you could come to the conclusion that in Germany and Sweden and other comparable countries you raised your price, it would also make sense that Denmark did so, but it just does not make sense that Denmark alone is taking the lead with such a high increase of 75%. Because it will just lead to border trade and maybe even worse to smuggling and illegal trade. If it is illegal trade, there is also the risk that it is a product that you do not know what is in it. And is it healthier for the Danes to smoke it? I think that is hardly the case. So it is not because we do not share the ambition that fewer people should smoke, and we also believe that this is unhealthy, but a 75% increase in taxes. is simply too violent and will lead to too much cross-border trade and illegal trade. What we want, on the other hand, is one of them. to have an indexing of the tax. After all, consumer prices are rising today and people's incomes are rising, but the tax on cigarettes is not rising. In other words, it is not indexed upwards, and it does, in relation to purchasing power, make it actually cheaper and cheaper over time to buy cigarettes. That is not the aim of it either. So we think it would make sense to index the cigarette tax to consumer prices in the future, so that, after all, smoking did not become cheaper, because that does not make any sense either. So it is not to say that we cannot see that there may be a development in the cigarette tax. It is quite inappropriate that it should in principle be eroded over time, and we can of course try to see if we can change that. However, as I said, there is also the major problem here that there is no funding in the proposal. In his speech, the Minister for Taxation mentioned that it costs 300 million. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. So, with the overall comments, I must say that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154424	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154426	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech and for being far too positive and accommodating. Cross-border trade is now being pulled out again. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: is it not true that border trade has already halved between 2013 and 2016 and that, according to the report to which the rapporteur himself refers, nothing has happened in relation to the trade in soda-ash at the border following the abolition of the soda-ash levy? And is it not true that it is probably not children and young people who are in the target group to take the car across the border to buy cigarettes? What does the rapporteur say? Is the rapporteur not also concerned about the fact that there is an increase in the number of smokers among children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154525	I do not think we can use the comparison with soda so much now, but if you look at what the proportion of border trade is in comparable countries, you can see that Denmark has a rather low level of border trade in cigarettes, because we are at the same price as our neighbouring countries. But you take Norway, which is highlighted in the debate and where the price is about 99 DKK. For a package of cigarettes, it can be seen that frontier trade is 44 per cent. of tobacco consumption in Norway. It's not some theoretical calculation... it's a pretty massive border trade. As the tax minister himself said in his speech: if Denmark raised the tax by 65%, we would go from the fact that frontier trade today is 5%. of total consumption, that it would amount to around 30%. It's a little violent. And that does not mean that one cannot look at what it takes to get people to stop smoking, but an increase in taxes to that extent, i.e. an increase of 75%, is simply too much, compared to what it will mean for border trade, and we are too far away from our neighbouring countries, which means that border trade is increasing, and perhaps even worse, that there is illegal trade, where you do not know what the products contain, and that they may therefore be even more harmful, and we do not think that is a good way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154631	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154632	After all, the rapporteur has now read the "Status of Border Trade 2017', to which reference is made. There is also another study that has been carried out by the Council for Prevention and, as I also mentioned in the question to the Minister, there is extreme uncertainty about what will happen to border trade if you do so here. The rapporteur himself refers to the need to increase the price slightly in relation to wage income, but what about purchasing power? As we mentioned earlier, Denmark has the second lowest prices compared to 37 countries, only Luxembourg has lower prices than us compared to purchasing power. What does the rapporteur say about the young people who smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154728	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154730	Thank you for the question. Well, yes, I always think there's uncertainty about economic calculations in here, but it's hard for us like Parliament to make some cut or other and tell us where it's supposed to be. There, after all, we have to listen to professional knowledge, and the expertise of the Treasury Department is saying right now in the border trade report that it would have a violent effect on the cross-border trade, and we are leaning on that. I am not an economist myself and I am not an expert in the calculation methods underlying the report. After all, I am listening to those who are sitting with it, and I really think it would be best for the discussion to take advantage of a common professional basis instead of saying that when Norway's border trade is 44 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. I think it has, and it can be seen in Norway at least, how much of the trade takes place outside Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154817	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154818	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not know whether the rapporteur speaks against better knowledge, but if, for example, I do. It is therefore concluded that there is considerable uncertainty about the effects on the State's revenue from a tax increase. Thus, the effects are heavily dependent on the assumptions about the price sensitivity of consumption and border trade. In the case of low sensitivity, the State will receive higher tax revenue, and vice versa with high sensitivity. So there is uncertainty. So I really want to ask the same question I asked the Minister. If we can now get the Ministry to calculate the costs of people getting sick from smoking and the costs of young people starting with smoking, then I do not think it takes much imagination to imagine that the calculation will come out in the positive way so that we will save money in the health care system. If we are to take a purely economic approach to this, what I do not think we should do, because I think we should also look at the individual person and it turns out that there are savings in health care, even if we put the tax on cigarettes and thus have more border trade, will the Danish People's Party support the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424154933	The fact that there is uncertainty about a calculation does not mean that it has no effects. There may be uncertainty, but the effect may also be greater; I think that is what the tax minister said. An effect may also be greater than the one estimated in the border trade report, but it may also be smaller. We don't know. But the fact that it has any effect, I think, is beyond doubt. The fact that you have a better knowledge base, I think, is always positive. As I understand it, the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Finance, or whoever has made it, have already made a global calculation of the lasting effect and when it is said that it gives minus 300 million. kr., so I guess you've figured it out. But it would be quite obvious to have it drilled out during the committee procedure, and then we have to discuss it from there. For it is absolutely essential that we learn more about this if there is any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155017	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155023	But let me change our tracks, because in the alternative we are very concerned about the young people and will try to prevent them from starting to smoke, and we know that this proposal will help. This will help prevent many young people from starting to smoke. How, then, does the Danish People's Party want to solve this problem in relation to preventing young people from starting to smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155045	I'm just a tax rapporteur, unfortunately. I am not working on this every day; it is our health rapporteur, Mrs Liselott Blixt, who has that area. So, unfortunately, I cannot answer questions in very detail to the specific proposal, but I can say that, of course, we share the ambition that young people should not start smoking, especially young people under 18 years of age. It would be catastrophic if they were to get started first. That is where we must try very hard to take action, and that is where we share the ambition, which is also described very well in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155116	With that, we thank Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, and then we reached Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155127	Thank you for the floor. As the previous rapporteurs have already said, the alternative here is to raise the tobacco tax by 75%. This means that a pack of cigarettes will rise from 40 kroner. to DKK 65, and this will mean that we go from having a price level as in most other European countries, our neighbouring countries, to having the third highest in the whole of the European Union. I understand the desire to prevent people, especially young people, from getting on with smoking tobacco, but the question is whether things actually work. An increase of 75%. It is quite significant, and it is expected that border trade will rise from approx. 7%, it represents consumption today, at 30%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Today there is little illegal trade in cigarettes, because there is nothing to save by buying them in Sweden or Germany and then taking them to Denmark and selling them black in kiosks. But it is on candy, and that is why we see a massive trade in black candy, which is also not properly stored in health terms. And there's no control at all over the candy that's being sold black. As I have said, it is not stored properly in terms of health. It is typically outdated and all such things. And it is certainly the same thing you will typically see if you increase the tobacco tax by 75%. We will see a much larger black market where there will be no age limit for who they sell cigarettes to. There will therefore be less control over the tobacco which is actually being sold. That is why I am doubtful about the effects that the alternative thinks they are getting from this motion for a resolution. Then there is one more thing: I simply do not understand the logic of the alternative, I am sorry to say that. Here the alternative suggests that it should be more expensive to buy cigarettes. In 14 days' time, I believe, we shall have to deal with a motion for a resolution in the Folketing, which is about the Danes being allowed to grow hemp at home. Is it because smoking hemp is considered to be less harmful than smoking cigarettes? I don't understand. Or do you want if you can make the tobacco yourself, you do not have to pay the tax on it? I don't understand. But in any case, the Left does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155331	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155333	I would just like to start by asking the rapporteur: is it not true that the report on border trade, which came from the Treasury in 2017, writes that it is very uncertain and that there is very little information about the black market, illegal border trade, etc.? It says directly here: there is particular uncertainty about the estimates of illegal trade. The scarce information used... etc. etc. How can the rapporteur be so sure of what will happen? I consider the rapporteur to be quite certain in the statement that just came here about what will happen, both with border trade and the illegal market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155423	Well, that's correct. We are not registering black trade; it is, of course, not possible. Illegal trade takes place on paper-free, illegal. We'll find out when we do the controls. And there we have seen up to several controls that have shown this illegal trade in candy. It is my opinion that it is typically related to gang crime, bicker crime, and it is by doing so that they get money into the country and get funding their crime. It's through this illegal candy store. Why is that? That is because our candy taxes are so much higher than they are in Sweden and Germany. There is no possibility of making money at this stage in the case of cigarettes, but there will be if this becomes a reality. And that is why it will certainly give rise to illegal trade, as is the case with candy at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155502	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155503	But then the rapporteur acknowledges that it is very uncertain to stand and conclude something when you do not register it and therefore do not really know what it is that you talk about when you use it as an argument. I would like to change a little bit of track, because I would like to ask something, because there are several of the rapporteur's colleagues from the Left who have been out to say that this is a very important instrument in relation to young people. Both Regional Council President Stephanie Lose, Mr. Søren Gade, who is the chairman of the group, and even the Prime Minister has acknowledged that raising the price and the tax on cigarettes will help. The rapporteur did not mention it at all in his speech. Can I hear a little bit about what the rapporteur says about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155554	Well, we want to get rid of the fact that young people are increasingly starting to smoke. And there we are open to looking at the different options, of course within what the tax freeze allows. But a 75% increase in tobacco prices is a very sharp increase. It is very, very violent, and I have to say that I believe that this is leading to serious cross-border trade and illegal trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155622	It just gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155626	That is just a brief comment. Now, on the part of both the Minister and the rapporteur, there are signs of some kind of similarity between what we want to raise the tax on tobacco, because we believe that, not least for children and young people, the effects are harmful to health, and that we want to look at medical cannabis as an option that can also be used at home in health care. I would just like to say, as a brief remark, that there is quite a difference, I think, to say that medical cannabis could be interesting to use in new ways that might relieve pain, and to say that we think that we should raise the tax on tobacco which is harmful to health. It's not just something about the Wild West we're out in when it comes to medical cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155709	It is my understanding that the alternative is putting forward a motion for a resolution that people themselves must grow hemp at home, and that would be the Wild West.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155719	With that we thank Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, and then we move on to Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424155726	Thank you for that, President. The alternative proposed by this motion for a resolution is that the tobacco tax should be increased by 75%. It is my view and the view of the Enhedslisten that the fight against tobacco is one of the most important tasks we have in terms of public health in Denmark. Tobacco is the number one cause of the most deaths that we could prevent. 13,600 Danes die every year as a result of tobacco. Tobacco is the only legal product that is the cause of death for every other person who uses it, as well as when using it according to the regulations. It is the cause of very many sick days each year, it is the cause of many different cancers, heart disease, COPD, i.e. what we also call smoking lungs. Tobacco is heavily addicted to such dependence that around 70%. of those who use it actually want to stop but cannot. It is therefore quite depressing that we recently received new figures showing that things are going the wrong way. After many years of success in preventing smoking, more young people are starting to smoke. If we do not change that trend, there will be thousands of children and young people growing up in those years now who will die from tobacco. That is why I am also very much in favour of the objective of a smoke-free generation by 2030, as formulated by the former Left Government. However, that objective is only worthwhile if we do something to back it up, and it lags behind. Imagine that we who sit here have the power to ensure that my daughter, who is 2 years old, and her generation can become the first generation in Denmark, which will be completely free of smoke or at least as good as that. That would, of course, be a fantastic gain for public health and for children and young people. The good news is that we actually know what needs to be done, because there is no discussion about • and I think that is important • what works, contrary to what the Minister said. He said the government doesn't think it's the most effective. Then I'll just have to say it's wrong. We know that it is the most effective way to look at prices. Full respect for the fact that you can have all sorts of different opinions, but the facts cannot be discussed in this context. The price of cigarettes, the price of tobacco, is absolutely crucial to how many people start smoking. As recently as today, this has been reaffirmed in a new research report by the Council for Prevention, which stresses that a high price for cigarettes is the absolutely most effective tool to prevent children and young people from starting and smoking. Other initiatives mentioned earlier by the Social Democrat rapporteur are also important, but they do not reach the price of the knees in relation to the effect. A major European comparison of tobacco prices recently showed that out of 37 countries in Europe, Denmark is the second cheapest to be a smoker when compared to the prices of milk, rye bread, oatmeal, and what else we pay for. And this is an important explanation for the fact that we see, unfortunately, that more young people smoke in Denmark. It is relatively cheap to be a smoker here. A typical argument from the blue side of the Danish Parliament in this matter has also been heard today is that it will not help, but will only lead to increased border trade if we raise the prices of cigarettes. First of all, I would like to say that I believe that this is an argument or a very exaggerated relationship. There are no Danish studies to confirm this. Knowledge Council on Prevention in 2011 carried out a major study of what exists in international experience, and it was said here that it can be seen to a large extent that higher taxes reduce consumption. Yes, it also leads to increased cross-border trade, but overall the effect is significant in relation to reducing consumption. Secondly, I would like to say, and I think this is also very important in relation to the objective which at least almost all parties in the Folketing support, that we should have a smoke-free generation, that it is particularly in relation to children and young people, that it has an effect, that children and young people do not trade in borders, and that children and young people do not have such a strong economy either, and that means that they are more sensitive to the price than others. So I would actually like to call for a serious study of the many experiences that are being done in these years, because there are actually very many countries that have done this before Denmark. After all, there is plenty of knowledge, lots of inspiration, we could learn from if we wanted to, both in terms of cross-border trade, but also in terms of health. England has been involved in the debate, and I would also like to mention Norway as an important place to gain experience. And then I understand that I do not have time to say anything more, but I would just like to sum up briefly that we are positive about the proposal. We would like to enter into a discussion on how much the price should be raised. Our proposal has been 50% in the past, that is to say less than what the alternative is proposing, and we also think that it should be part of an overall discussion on a major tax restructuring that takes into account the socio-economic effects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160310	It was such an elegant way to get 1 minute more speaking time, congratulations on that. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160324	Thank you for that, President. With this proposal, the alternative is to raise the excise duty on cigarettes by 75%. This will result in a package of cigarettes rising from approx. 40 kroner. ed 63 kr. It will cost the Treasury approx. 300 million kr. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of tobacco products is an important step in the right direction. The assessment is that the frontier trade in cigarettes will increase from 5% today. ed 25% of cigarette consumption. It is also to be expected that the illegal trade in cigarettes will increase explosively, as one might say. has seen it in Norway, where the proportion is eight times higher than it is in Denmark. In addition, I think that the impression has been created that the proportion of young smokers is increasing in Denmark. Now I am not a health rapporteur, but I have a completely fresh response from the Minister for Health, who shows that the proportion of 16 to 17-year-olds who smoke is falling. That is certainly positive. There is no doubt that smoking is very harmful to health, and I personally think it is stupid to start smoking, and I think it is good when people stop smoking, but it has to be said that today it is an enlightened basis on which people make their choice. People know it's unhealthy to smoke, and yet there's a share that does it. Normally, I think that we can find a broad consensus that people should make choices on an informed basis, but here we have a situation where people actually make choices on an informed basis, and yet some politicians find that they do not like the choice they make and want to raise taxes etc. It is not to put any words in my mouth, but sometimes I get the feeling that some people would prefer to ban it. At least there are members of the Radical Left who have said this quite openly and honestly. We cannot support this resolution. This is contrary to the government's tax freeze, and I really think that there is also what to call it: there is a tendency for some elite to sit in the Folketing and in various organisations looking into society, and then they find that some people make choices other than those they like, and it is also people with lower incomes who smoke, and then this elite says that they do not like it, so now they will put taxes on that consumption, despite, as I have mentioned earlier, that some people are making choices on an enlightened basis. Frankly, I don't like that. Again, I think that people should stop smoking, it is not healthy, but when we live in a free society, we must also live with some people making a choice that we do not agree with ourselves. That is also one of the reasons why we cannot support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160708	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160711	Thank you. I did not expect the rapporteur to support the proposal either, but I would nevertheless like to express my thanks for a very positive speech. I just got something I was squirming about. I was amazed that the rapporteur noticed that there was a decrease in the number of young smokers and I think the rapporteur was there to mention a very specific age group. Because it's hard to discuss the facts. If anything is a fact, we cannot stand here and discuss it. And according to the Health Profile 2017, there is an increase among the 16-25-year-olds when it comes to smoking daily, and of course these are the ones that are really important. So it's gone from 13% to 13%. in 2015 to 15%. in 2017. I think I heard the rapporteur say that there was an answer that there was a decrease in the number of young smokers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160817	I think I was very specific. I mentioned 16-17-year-olds, and there I have an answer, answer No. 678 to the Social Democratic Health Rapporteur, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, in which it appears that the proportion of 16-17-year-olds who smoke has fallen. It may well have increased for other groups of young people, and they should then stop smoking. I think it would be wise for them to do so, especially if they do so before they reach the age of 30, because then the risk of dying from a smoking-related disease falls by as much as 97%. This is a figure which has also been confirmed in the past by the fight against cancer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160904	Does Mrs Pernille Schnoor wish to speak? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160907	Thank you. Now it is also very special to pull out some who are 16-17 years old, i.e. a relatively limited group of young people. The figure I mentioned was 16-25 years old, and among them 15% smoke daily. That's a lot, a lot. In Norway there are now 3% who smoke daily after a marked increase in the price. And I am actually delighted that the rapporteur is not constantly discussing border trade. But does the rapporteur not think that we should do something to get young people to reduce their consumption or to stop smoking altogether?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160954	Then it is the rapporteur who can answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424160955	I don't know how irrelevant the 16-17 age group is. You could say that if you're over 18, you're an adult and an adult, and then you make a choice. I do not think that is irrelevant to this discussion. That is probably relevant, I think, to focus on the group of young people who are not of age. There I just note again that I am not a health rapporteur, but I refer to the answer from the Minister for Health that there is therefore a decrease in the proportion of 16-17-year-olds who smoke. I am delighted about that. Shouldn't something be done? Yeah, I definitely think something needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161031	Thank you. Sir. René Gade for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161034	Then the rapporteur will have a little extra time in a moment. I would just like to make one comment, because it is on a long stretch a health policy issue that is being raised here by the alternative today. When the rapporteur then takes note that there may be some elite who sits and rules over some people that's the only thing I can just remember being literally said before the end of the day, I just want to say that I'm thinking that we in here from the Folketing must make our best offer based on our conviction and on what we hear from experts. I guess we're some kind of political elite who sit in here and have to make some good decisions. I am thinking that it is our primary task to provide information about all the knowledge we care about and then make our best offer. So in the alternative, we are certainly not afraid to come up with both what may sound so ugly, namely reminders, and good input and tips and tricks on how to live a good, healthy, green and free life in our eyes. We usually agree with the Liberal Alliance on many of these freedom agendas, but let's not shoot the elite and the experts too much in the shoes. I think it was only the elite that the rapporteur referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161144	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161145	Yeah, but we're a political elite in here. It's self-evident. It just doesn't mean we have to decide how anyone else who doesn't belong to any elite should live their lives. There are people who like to smoke it there. It is part of their quality of life and they are aware that it is unhealthy, but they choose to do so anyway, and I think they should be allowed to do so. So we disagree on that. Now I'm going to answer the second question about whether or not you should do something. Yeah, you gotta do something. One of the things that could be done was to make some of the far, far less harmful tobacco products more accessible. That is something you, for example. It has done in England, and it has also helped to reduce dangerous tobacco consumption, i.e. smoking tobacco. In Norway and Sweden, total tobacco consumption is largely at the level of what is in Denmark, but a much larger proportion of it is in the form of smoke-free tobacco, which is much less harmful to health. There are also new products, steam products, etc. which are also less harmful. It's damage reduction, and let's make something more of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161253	Sir. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161254	I would also just like to point out that we are not exactly saying that you should not smoke. We just want you to get more of what's healthy for people. You can have a free choice to say that you really don't care about that, and that you take a glass of wine extra or a smoke extra. I don't have to keep myself too good to take anything that's not healthy. But it is just important to say that we are not saying that we should not; we are just saying that, as far as what is straining nature and what is straining our health, it is perhaps very sensible to raise a flag and say that it may well be a little more expensive than other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161329-2	But it is certainly also much more expensive. I think that 80%. It is not the case that the price of a package of cigarettes is made up of taxes, so it is not the case that it is not taxed. I know the alternative hasn't said that you can't smoke. Some in the Radical Left have said so. But it can also be said that if we place such high taxes on it that people really cannot afford it, then it is something that turns the heavy end down. It's not us in here who can't afford to smoke if you put 75%. on top of the charges. We'd be able to finance it. There will be other groups of society that will have a great deal of difficulty in doing so, but it is of course a political choice whether or not to do something specific to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161408	As I see it, no one else has asked for short remarks, and so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161424	In the Radical Left we are in favour of raising taxes on tobacco, which is why we agree with the intentions of the resolution. We are because we know that it will get fewer, especially young people, to start smoking, and it will simply break the food chain of smokers that occurs while people are teenagers. This will mean, in the very long term, that we will be able to save money in our health sector because people do not get the secondary diseases that smoking gives them. The challenge, which the resolution does not really address, is, as the Ministry of Taxation often goes through, that this will cost money in the short term. This may sound a little strange, because most people will think that if there are fewer smokers, there will be fewer health costs, and therefore it will have to bring benefits in relation to public spending. But it is the case that very many people will continue to smoke because they cannot or will not stop smoking, and they will then go to other countries and buy tobacco if you raise the tax as much as it is proposed here. And the fact that there will be fewer young people smoking and thus not buying cigarettes will also mean that there will be fewer income. So in the short term, raising taxes is an expense, and in the longer term, when these teenagers become retired, you will see that they will need health care to a lesser extent. But it is only in the long term that we want to see savings. That dilemma and the economic challenge do not deal with the resolution. However, we are going to vote in favour of this because the resolution does not set a date on when it will apply, and we in the Radical Left are going to fund this proposal when we present our next financial legislative proposal. So we think we can vote in favour, even though the funding element is currently lacking. We therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161632	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no brief comments. So we move on to Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161641	You get smarter while the other rapporteurs say something. Thank you for that and thank you for submitting the proposal. In the SF, we fully agree with the alternative that we must do our best to prevent young people from starting to smoke. We therefore also share the view that the price has an impact on whether young people start smoking. In the SF, we also believe that there is room for price increases in tobacco, so that prices at least follow the general price regulation. In the long run, a higher price increase is also an element in SF's efforts to prevent tobacco disease. Having said that, the order of the factors does not really matter. If we simply raise the price significantly, it will have a serious social battle side. Because, as you know, tobacco is also a highly addictive product, and addiction is precisely the reason why many people find it difficult to quit tobacco, despite the fact that most smokers actually want to stop smoking. So any higher price increases on tobacco in the future should also be accompanied by massive efforts to allocate the necessary funds to help citizens stop smoking. This is, for example, a paradox, we think that smoking cessation products still cost close to the same as ordinary cigarettes. As the debate today shows, there is, of course, not exactly a majority for price increases, but we really do think that is a pity, because the proposal should not just be shot down. There is, in fact, a perspective in working on methods that can prevent young people from starting to smoke, but also methods that can help smokers stop smoking. So perhaps, by means of a report, we can put a perspective on a purpose that I believe many of us agree on, that is that smoking is harmful and that there are great prospects in preventing young people from even starting to smoke. Perhaps we can add some of the other good proposals that the alternative, SF, Enhedslisten, Radicals and Social Democrats have agreed to, namely putting tobacco under the counter or enforcing an age requirement in relation to young people. It is important, I think, that we are still clinging to the fact that we must avoid the social battle side, that is to say that the order of the factors is not indifferent. That is why I was also inspired by the Radicals who say: there is not exactly a timetable for when it is then that we have to implement these price increases. In the SF, as I said, we also agree that, in the long run, we must do something quite fundamental about prices and that it is under discussion. However, if it is the case here and now that we have to raise prices, as the alternative suggests, then we will probably not be able to vote in favour of that proposal. On the other hand, we hope that the alternative will help to work towards a slightly longer-term plan, in which we will have all the elements discussed in context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161951	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424161959	Thank you. The motion for a resolution which we are now debating has been tabled by the Alternative and is about raising the tobacco tax by 75%. to improve public health. This is a sympathetic proposal and we have a great deal of sympathy from the conservative side for the intentions behind the proposal, namely to improve public health and ensure that fewer young people start smoking. It is, of course, very worrying when we see in completely new studies that the downward trend that has occurred with fewer young people starting to smoke has been broken. There are now more who start smoking. We need to do something about this, and we also have an ambition that no one should start smoking by 2030 and forward, so there is a very long way to go. We also owe it to future generations to take on this task and take it seriously so that we can achieve our goal. The question then is whether one can solve the problem of a snap by raising the tax by 75%, as the alternative suggests. I wish it were that easy, but unfortunately it isn't. There is already an age limit for when tobacco can be bought in Denmark. That is why it should not be possible for young people under the age of 18 to acquire tobacco at all. But that is not how it works in practice. Does it change by raising the tax? I don't think it does. On the other hand, a large tax increase has some negative consequences. This is partly for cross-border trade and partly for the risk of creating an illegal market which can finance criminal networks and criminal environments. And so it certainly has some less health effects on the short lane if you raise the tax. In fact, I believe that they will be limited, because the dependence on tobacco is independent of the price. And, as we heard the Minister of Taxation say, such a large increase in taxation can therefore have quite a major impact on tax revenue because of the increase in frontier trade, and indeed tobacco is among the products that are most sensitive to changes in the tax. Therefore, we believe that the right way to go is to continue to inform about the health consequences, support smokers who want to quit, etc. Then we must step up our efforts in relation to the ban on the sale of tobacco to young people under 18 years of age that we already have. There are, among other things: a partnership with the retail industry, which should focus even more on stopping the tobacco trade for young people under 18 years of age. That is, of course, positive. Furthermore, we in the Conservatives have just launched a proposal to ban smoking in primary school, because we do not in fact believe that schooling and smoking should be linked in any way. The fight against cancer supports this and says that 25% is expected. of those who would start smoking will not start smoking if smoking is banned in primary school. So it is certainly a very good step to take and it will have a very great effect. We are also ready to look at other initiatives if there are other good proposals to combat smoking, but one-sided focus on such a large increase in taxation is simply not what solves the problem. So I would like to conclude by thanking the alternative for raising the debate, because it is an important debate, but despite the good intentions behind the proposal, with the comments I have made, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162333	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162333-2	After all, there has really been consensus on doing something in this area. Almost all parties, which I have heard voices today, think that we should ensure that young people do not smoke too much. Now it is in primary school that the Conservatives want to take action, and that also makes sense. I would just like to ask you briefly: will it not reduce the consumption of cigarettes by the Danes if prices are raised? Well, the pure question I would like to ask. There may then be all kinds of good reasons why you do not want it. But I think that much of what we are hearing today as an argument for not agreeing to this is that some financial things will happen, so we will actually experience a pretty marked minus • in the short term at least because of this. That can then be discussed. But if we forget and say that this problem has to be solved in the area of justice... if smugglers take over the track... then I guess consumption will also fall if we raise tobacco prices from what we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162438-2	I do not think there is any doubt about that, and I think everyone agrees on that. All other things being equal, it is always the case that if you raise the price of something, demand will fall. I just think that the effect will be limited in relation to the major challenges it will bring. We have heard about increased cross-border trade, and it is certainly a very concrete economic challenge that the Treasury will have, and retail trade for that matter too. I believe that there are other and better solutions. We have this proposal to ban smoking in primary school, and I think that is a very effective way to go, so simply send a strong signal to young people that we do not want you to start smoking at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162518	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162519	Yes, and there it is also just important to point out that a resolution such as that we are presenting here is indeed a tiny part of a larger whole that we also want to work on in this area in the alternative. So the resolution itself is, after all, a step on the stairs that could lead us to combat this. So those who had to sit and watch, and colleagues in this Chamber, must not think that we think this is something that solves the problem. In the alternative, we believe that this is just an important step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162547	As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we are very much in agreement on the intentions. That is not where the disagreement between the Conservative People's Party and the alternative is. That is more the way to go, and we therefore believe that there are other and better ways to go than to make a massive tax increase here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162603	Thank you to the rapporteur and then we will turn to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424162614	Thank you. I would like to start a little differently from perhaps usual, and than the other rapporteurs here today have started. Because smoking is a personal matter, and I think we all know someone who died from smoking, for example. as a result of cancer. And I would like to start by mentioning someone who has been very close to my family ever since I was little. It was a person who was a friend of my parents and my family, and her name was Jytte. She was buried on Wednesday, and I would like to send a greeting to her relatives here from the platform today. Because I had known her since I was very little, and when I remember back, I actually always remember her as happy with nice, lacquered nails and a cigarette in my hand without filter. A few years ago, Jytte was diagnosed with COPD, and her lung capacity was actually down to 20%, which means she suffered from very severe COPD. She had very big problems walking over a pedestrian's field without getting violently out of breath. It was in the beginning, and eventually she was in a ventilator. I tell this story about Jytte because I think it is so important to point out that we should do everything we possibly can to prevent people from getting so violent and hard an end to life, and because between 35 percent. and 50%. of all smokers sooner or later, according to the Lung Association, COPD develops. In Denmark, as we have heard earlier today, there are approx. 14,000 people die every year as a consequence of smoking. So almost a quarter of all deaths in Denmark are related to smoking. Approx. 3,000 are due to smoking related lung cancer, approx. 6,000 as a result of cardiovascular diseases, approx. 3.600 due to COPD, approx. 1,500 because of other cancers. My own mother died of a blood clot in her brain, 66 years old, and she smoked. And that is among other things. That is why I am standing here today and that is why I will keep standing here until we do everything we can to help people stop smoking and help young people not to start. Despite several campaigns and a great positive ambition for a smoke-free generation 2030, unfortunately, things are going the wrong way. According to the new health profile, the number of smokers has stagnated, and it is the case that for the young people in particular, as I can hear here today, we agree not to start smoking. With this development, I think it is reasonable to say that we in Denmark are dependent on cigarettes both physically and culturally. For the health consequences are so well known, yet cigarettes are so solid a part of our social life that it does not make a difference that we know that we are getting sick from it. Knowledge and enlightenment simply do not make much difference because there is much more at stake. First of all, we are dependent on it. Those who smoke I don't smoke anymore depending on it, but according to the Center for Youth Research, campaigns haven't had any influence on young people's smoking habits either. And I don't think they're gonna get that either. After all, smoking is about much more than physical addiction. It is also about culture and communities and the social contexts in which young people are involved. Young people know the consequences, but unfortunately they go on, and one of the reasons is that there is so much time for something to happen. In an article in Politiken last year, a boy named Mads said: I find it hard to deal with it when I hear about illness and early death. It's so far in the future for us. But we know that what works is economic intervention, that is what works on young people, and that is what can stop cultural dependence. Very recently, an international research team published a study in The Lancet magazine, where they unanimously concluded that taxes are both the cheapest and the most effective way of getting people to live healthier. And the WHO has long said that the consumption of alcohol, smoking and fat unhealthy foods is decreasing in line with high prices. We have also made that clear in today's debate. There is no doubt about that. The proportion of smokers in Britain, where they have increased taxes on tobacco, has fallen from 26%. 19 per cent. over the last 6 years. Young people aged between 18 and 25 are the population in the UK, where the proportion has fallen most; 6.5 per cent. fewer young people smoke. That is the picture that goes back in all the countries that have raised the price: fewer smokes and fewer young people smoke, and that is why we are again standing here today, when it is just over a year since I last withdrew you to the Chamber to take a position on our motion for a resolution on raising taxes on tobacco. At that time it was called B 132 and it was aimed at an increase of 50% in tobacco taxes. Today it is called B 89, and it aims to increase tobacco taxes by 75%, so the price ends at just under DKK 65. rather than the 40 kroner it is today. I note that in the alternative we have become more brave since last year, and I also know that more Leftmen have become so. The Chairman of the Danish Regions, Stephanie Lose, and the Chairman of the Group of the Left in the Danish Parliament, Søren Gade, and even our Prime Minister have become much braver than last year. I would also like to thank the Minister for Taxation, who has also become much more courageous than last year and has actually talked about the need to look at raising the price of cigarettes so that children and young people do not start smoking. I think the debate here today has shown that we all agree that we should do something to ensure that children and young people do not smoke and that we should get that figure down. The increase we have seen must change. I am rather annoyed that border trade is still what is being pulled out of the hat when we discuss this proposal. Because, as I have pointed out before, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the effect on border trade. All we know for sure is that if we increase the tax and thus the price, the consumption of cigarettes and the number of smokers will fall. And I think that's what we have to work for in the Folketing. Where else would we work for it? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424163402	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I have to say that the rapporteur for the resolution we are debating is not here in the Chamber. That is to say that there is no minister present in the Chamber, so we cannot go into this motion for a resolution, and I will allow mercy to go too far and postpone the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424163542	I see that we are not going to need the five minutes, so I think we are going to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424163601	The debate is open. Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424163611	The motion for a resolution deals with charges for the use of electronic debit cards abroad. The proposal contains, on the one hand, a proposal for a ceiling on the exchange rate surcharge for the use of payment cards abroad and, on the other hand, two proposals to ensure transparency on charges for the use of payment cards abroad. Specifically, as paragraph 1, it is proposed that an exchange rate surcharge ceiling be introduced for the use of payment cards abroad of 1%. in the case of European currencies and 1.5% in the case of European currencies; for other currencies, such as point 2, that payment card service providers are required to specify in the transaction overview to each customer, which part of each transaction is derived from exchange rate conversion and which part is derived from exchange rate surcharges, and as point 3 that financial institutions are required to specify the income from exchange rate surcharges in their financial statements. As far as paragraph 1 is concerned, I do not think it appropriate to introduce a ceiling on the exchange rate surcharge for financial institutions. I believe, in principle, that, in general, care should be taken to intervene unnecessarily in market mechanisms and, in particular, in free pricing. In addition, a price cap may have a number of inappropriate consequences. Firstly, there is the risk that market players will use a cap as a common reference that can effectively put price competition into effect and this will have the exact opposite effect of what the proposal is aiming for. Secondly, the price ceiling may reduce the incentive to develop new solutions and innovate in this area, as it will be less attractive to enter the market for new players or to develop new products that benefit consumers while at the same time supporting competition and reducing prices. In addition, it is important to emphasise that there is already a statutory ban on the use of unfair prices and profit margins in the fixing of charges in the field of payment. At present, therefore, customers are already assured against the imposition of unreasonable charges by financial institutions, but without having the same harmful effects as a real price cap. The Competition and Consumer Authority supervises the provision, and this is an area on which the Board of Directors generally has a great deal of focus. I can also inform you that the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority is in the process of examining whether the price increases quoted in the exchange rate supplements in 2017 are contrary to the payment law's prohibition on the imposition of unreasonable charges. Overall, it is my view that the regulation in force provides adequate protection for customers against unfair charges. I therefore see no reason to lay down additional requirements for this, which may at the same time have a negative impact on the market. As far as paragraph 2 is concerned, I generally believe that greater transparency can promote competition in the market. Payment card providers are already subject to a requirement under the Payment Act to notify the payer of the exchange rate and the amount of fees, including a specification of the fees. However, the Payment Act does not include the requirement that a provider in the transaction overview itself should specify which part of each transaction is derived from exchange rate surcharges and currency conversions respectively. However, Finance Denmark has initiated work that meets the proposal to specify the exchange rate surcharge in the transaction overview. The work is expected to be completed during 2018. I do not believe that there is any reason to regulate this area when there are clear indications that we can achieve the same by voluntary means. The proposal is an example of a place where we can profitably refrain from making further legal demands. The last part of the proposal concerns the specification of the income of the exchange rate supplement in the annual accounts. There is an important part to gain from the fact that accounting policies are standardised internationally so that investors can compare cross-border accounts. We should therefore, as far as possible, avoid introducing Danish special rules in this area. In addition, I would like to mention that Danish financial institutions are already obliged to specify the fee revenue for a number of main areas, including payment intermediation. I believe that a separate requirement for information on income from the exchange rate supplement, in addition to the overall statement of revenue from the distribution of payments, is an example of detailed regulation, which we should refrain from. In my view, such a requirement would impose an unnecessary burden on businesses. In conclusion, therefore, I can conclude that the government's position is that the proposal should not be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164048	We have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164052	Thank you to the Minister for his reply. In relation to the fact that there is free competition and that it is the one that is supposed to ensure fair prices, there is something that I do not really think is connected. As the Consumer Council Think has also pointed out, the Danes have more than doubled their use of these cards abroad to now 65 billion. kr. Every year, and technology has also developed, but during the same period the banks have raised their prices. What is the relationship between this and the Minister's view? Is this a sign that there is a well-functioning competition when a market is growing and profits are rising and, at the same time, prices for each transaction are raised? Does it appear in a market where there is real and free competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164139	I do not think it is right that I should comment on the specific prices as a minister, especially because, as I have mentioned, the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency is examining the price increases, moreover, following the consumer council's request, and this is not an easy study. This study requires a detailed assessment of the legal grounds on which the case is based and a cost analysis of the currency surcharges of the various banks. So it's a relatively complicated case. However, I have been informed that the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority currently expects to have completed the survey in the fourth quarter of 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164219	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164221	Thank you. This is of course very interesting, and also thanks for the positive statement on transparency, in other words transparency. How is the Minister going to think that the Danish Parliament made a report as a result of this bill, which, if you will say so, states that Finance Denmark is on its way with this, but also indicates that they should also be, otherwise the Danish Parliament will act to ensure this transparency for the customers?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164250-2	I do not think it is a good idea to make a report in the light of the fact that Finance Denmark is doing a job on this point, and that the Competition and Consumer Authority is also examining the monetary supplement. So something's happening. However, one is always welcome, even as a party, if one is not satisfied with the measures that will be taken, to make further proposals. I am confident that what Finance Denmark is working on is going in the right direction, and then I will at least wait, when we talk about the exchange rate surcharge, for what the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority finds in their analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164323	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164324	Thank you. After all, we sometimes have these debates about whether there should be a ceiling on contributions or, for example, whether there should be a ceiling on contributions. an attic on this area. The Minister's position is well known. The Minister says that there must be a free market and that it must be able to work, and I think that both Enhedslisten and SF would think that would be fine if there was a market where there was competition, and that is precisely not what Mr. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned. I am a little puzzled by this principle, because it is not the case that there are no other areas where price ceilings exist. In other words, on interchange fees, the Minister's own authority has a ceiling of 0.2 per cent. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations for use in foodstuffs is an important step in the right direction. So why can there be a ceiling on interchange fees, but not here, when it is even on the minister's own resort area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164430	If you set a price ceiling, there is a tendency for prices to be standardized, because the ceiling is used as a common reference point, and I believe that competition could be put out of effect in relation to the exchange rate surcharge, where, of course, there is, as Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned are very many transactions. I myself await with interest the analysis of this by the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority. It would be interesting to see whether there is complete transparency, whether there is real competition in this area, and if not, of course I will strike at any time. We have only one interest, and it is as open and transparent as possible and as competitive as possible, and if the analysis shows that there are problems with competition, we do of course intervene because it is only for the benefit of consumers that there is competition and that there is no suspicion of cartels.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164527	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164529	Thank you. But what's the basic difference between having a ceiling on this area and having a ceiling of 0.2 percent? interbank fees?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164542-2	There is the basic approach to the fact that I am generally very, very sceptical about price ceilings, because I think that all the experience from the real world shows that this is the starting point for a normalisation of prices. I would also be concerned that a price cap, particularly in the context of exchange rate supplements, could help prevent genuine innovation in this area, because there is no doubt that digitalisation and new technologies will hopefully result in maximum competition and as many products as possible, which will make it the cheapest possible for us as consumers in this area, and, unfortunately, if we set a ceiling, I think that some of that innovation will be stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164628	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164631	It may be that there is something that I have not just thought about, because I was about to ask for something quite counter-argumental. I was gonna ask you if this might actually help if you got a ceiling. I understand all the fears about what this could involve and that we should now wait for the investigation that is on the way, but could it not just create such a lovely melting pot of small businesses looking at how they can go in and challenge this market? If those who sit as heavily on the market as they do today have the opportunity simply, despite the fact that volume increases, then also to raise prices, I am unsure whether it will be easier, even if there is a greater gain in it, to enter as a new player on the market and challenge the existing one. So if the intention is to have a healthy competition market and not just let the big players reap the fruits still, then perhaps I think the argument may be the opposite of what the Minister says, but I do not have an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164728	I think that is quite a fair consideration, as the rapporteur of the alternative is doing here, but I have the experience, I think, that when an explicit price ceiling is introduced, there is a tendency for it to be approached. If you really want free competition in the area of payment cards and also in the area of currency, where there is a rapid development, then in terms of what is being developed by new digital services in Denmark, we have seen what MobilePay meant and what else is being created by new services that are being developed, it is being created with the aim of getting more competition and it is pushing down prices. If the big ones can keep on sticking straight to where everyone else is, what is the incentive to develop new solutions? If they all land on x or y percent in relation to exchange rate supplements, then my concern will be that innovation will disappear. It is on the basis of that argument that I think we should be very careful about also setting price ceilings, in addition to the fact that I will always be politically concerned about taking action against the free creation of the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164834	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. We are embarking on the round of rapporteurs, and first of all it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424164851	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten requires the government to put forward legislative proposals that will introduce a ceiling on the banks' exchange rate surcharges when the Danes raise money abroad. At the same time, the proposal will require payment card service providers to specify the fees in the transaction overview and specify the banks' total earnings in the banks' annual accounts. Basically, the resolution is about whether the banks should have the right to set their own prices for their products. I work as consumer rapporteur in cooperation with my colleagues from the Social Democratic Party to protect consumers. We would like to see more transparency in bank charges and prices so that consumers can make informed choices when choosing a bank. Social democracy believes that increasing transparency in bank prices will promote competition between banks, thereby keeping a leash in fees and, overall, leading to lower fees for Danes. Social democracy has been critical of banks and mortgage banks for a long time of increasing fees and rates of contributions, and we believe that banks must be kept on a short leash, but also that we must be careful to overregulate the market. The Social Democratic Party considers that the current Article 79 of the Payment Service Act is sufficient to prevent financial institutions from charging unfair fees which Enhedslisten bases in the comments on the proposal. As a result of Danske Bank, Nordea and Jyske Bank's price increases in the summer of 2017, there were several articles with the Consumer Council Thinking where they said they intended to test the price increases at the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority. They have done so, and the answer has not yet been given, as the Minister mentioned just now. The EU Payment Services Directive, which was implemented on 1 January this year, has led to a ban on a number of charges and has improved consumer rights throughout the EU. It is therefore a better protection for consumers. The Social Democratic Party therefore believes that any regulation of fees for cash withdrawals abroad should take place at EU level in order not to put Danish banks in a worse competitive situation vis-à-vis their European competitors. However, it should also be borne in mind that, as a banker, you can always change banks if you are dissatisfied with the fee policy. I would like to commend the Enhedslisten for always keeping an eye on the banks' doings and barn. There is good reason for this, and this is a matter on which we in the Social Democratic Party agree, but in this case we believe that the legislation is sufficient at this stage for consumers to make reasonable choices, including a choice to change banks if that is what is needed in order to have to pay a lower fee. Although the intention of the proposal is well-meaning, the Social Democrats cannot support it in its present form. We therefore recommend that the motion for a resolution be rejected. Then I should like to greet the Radicals and say that they think the same thing as us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165215	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165219	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and also thank you for the nice comments on intention. I am a little surprised, however, that the Social Democrats reject the overall proposal, because when this matter went on this summer and caused a great deal of outrage among holiday-stricken Danes, that is to say they had to pay a penalty for their summer holidays, the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, on the other hand, and I quote: "We will help ensure that the Danes get better information about how much it costs to use their cards before and after using them abroad. I am sure that if the Minister for Industry is reasonable, he should also listen to the majority in the Danish Parliament. Does this mean that the Social Democratic Party is running away from the promise made in the TV Newspaper at the time, and as the headline reads here "Political majority: the banker's fee jump must be brought to light, so that we must ensure that this becomes visible on the transaction lists, so that you can see what you have actually paid in fees and what was just the bill of exchange?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165324	No, that doesn't mean we're running from anything. This means that at that time we were in and looking at what the websites of the banks really look like, how much information is coming out there and whether you can see what you have to pay. In other words, there are banks that have subsequently been better than others in terms of having information about this. We therefore believe that as a banker you have an opportunity to see what it is you have to pay when you withdraw money abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165352	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165355	But the story here was really about me, for example. Going into my online bank, I can see that I have been to this tapas bar in Barcelona and that I have paid this amount in Danish kroner. But you can't see how much of the amount is just the exchange and how much there is this exchange rate supplement that the banks have then decided to raise. That is what the Social Democrats said at the time they wanted to be involved in. That is why we have tabled the proposal, because in fact there was a majority in the Folketing who were prepared to look at it. That is why I am a little surprised that it is rejected. That is why I would also like to ask whether the Social Democrats in the committee work would be prepared to look at a report on what we agreed at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165436	We will always go into committee work and look at the content, regardless of whether it is a legislative proposal or a motion for a resolution. So I can at least give an undertaking to that here. However, I would like to reiterate that I believe that it is sufficient for consumers to be able to see on the banks' websites what they have to pay in addition to withdraw money abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165502	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165514	There was an arrest outside the Folketing, and it's not every day, so I got a little distracted. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign that we will now have the opportunity to discuss what has been before us, and that is also what I am sure is why Enhedslisten has wanted the debate. It is because of the things that were there in mid-year last year, in 2017, about the increases that were on the VISA card. In the Danish People's Party we cannot endorse the proposal as it stands. We do not think that it is possible to legislate on charges of this kind on electronic debit cards, in relation to the maximum fee. Must be. We believe that it must be the free market that determines the price of money, and this also means that it must be the various banks that operate and compete on an open basis. The latter is a prerequisite, and that is also why I do not entirely reject the possibility of regulation, because it obviously requires competition to take place in this area too. If the analysis now coming from the Competition and Consumer Protection Authority shows that there have been problems with competition and that an agreement has been reached, what should be said, that there should be joint increases in fees, then this is a different situation from the one I outlined in relation to the fact that it should be in a free market and that there should be free competition in this area. We think it would be quite natural that we should now get feedback from this study and that we should then know the extent of it and what it actually contains: What is the status? What are the amounts involved? What are the reasons for the increases? I know that among other things. Nordea has reported that one of the reasons is that their payments to the VISA card are increasing, i.e. their operating costs in connection with having it, and, if that is correct, one must of course also have elucidated how large the increases have been at VISA International etc. This is something we need to clarify in this study, and if there are some things that do not appear in that report, I think, of course, that as politicians, including as members of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, we should help to ask a few more questions about the things that might not come up in connection with the report. However, as I said, we cannot support a proposal to introduce ceilings. In fact, we believe that if such a ceiling were to come, the banks would automatically fall to that ceiling, and then it would mean that we do not have prices, but that we have ceilings, and all the banks would then, more or less, comply, and we do not think that this is in the interests of consumers. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party would argue that there must be this free competition. And we believe that there is, but, as I said, it is now being examined by the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency, and if we believe that there are some indicators that show that existing legislation has not been complied with, we must of course take it up. And the Danish People's Party would also like to take part in this, but it is something that will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165848	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165848-2	Thank you. Yes, because the Danish People's Party was also one of the parties that this summer when there was this outrage among the And that is why I think it is a little important that we stand by it. Well, it's easy to get some cheap points in the TV paper, but when it comes down to it, you won't really do anything anyway. And it is not meant as a criticism, but I just think there is a tendency that we sometimes experience that development. Therefore, I would just like to ask the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party whether the Danish People's Party will be prepared to make perhaps some kind of report in the committee, which might send a signal to Finance Denmark which is apparently on its own in the process of increasing transparency, that we expect them to do so, and thus also indicate that if not, then the Danish Parliament will take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424165940	In any case, I would like to say to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, that if it turns out that there is no competition in this area, then we are not opposed to legislation in this area. But we believe that there is competition. Now the matter is being examined, and then we will have to take the conclusions that may come in the first place. And that there should then be a report in which we can agree on some things, I will not reject it. But it is not something that lies at the forefront of our discussion right now. I really think that we need to wait for the report to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170013	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170013-2	That debriefing seems to me to be relevant. But it specifically concerns this issue of whether to go in and regulate prices because there is no free competition. But the part that is about openness, that is transparency, is important, no matter what. That's it, too, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby spoke about this summer, that is to say that you would like to include these fees in the chart. So it is still the position of the Danish People's Party that we should try to ensure that as a general consumer one can go in to see that well, now I have paid for my hotel in Mallorca, and so and so much of that is what the banks took as payment, and the other was just the ordinary currency turnover?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170056-2	Well, there's nothing different from that. In other words, what I said was about the openness that has to be, so when the year has passed, a Danish cardholder or someone who has an involvement in a bank will get an overview of how things have gone and what has been paid for fees and other expenses related to one's exposures. And there we think it would be quite appropriate that both fees and other expenses should be provided for in the annual accounts; we think that this would be quite appropriate. We also believe that it can be done without an administrative burden, and we would like to take part in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170134	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170145	Thank you. As several speakers have said, there are such three key elements in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Enhedslisten. The first is that there must be a price cap on the exchange rate surcharge for the use of payment cards abroad. At the risk of repeating myself from previous discussions, I would like to say that, as a starting point, we are very critical of price ceilings, in that there is a clear tendency for this to be where prices are then applied and competition to be actually put out of effect, and we are not in favour of that. Because we believe that competition is the best safeguard for consumers in terms of high prices. So in principle we are always critical of it from our side, and that also applies in this case. As to whether payment card service providers should then be required to specify the appendices to each transaction, what the Minister of Industry has said is currently being worked on. I am also of the opinion that, if things can be resolved by voluntary means, it may not be necessary to make detailed regulation in this area. With regard to the third part on a revision of the Financial Statements Act, in view of the fact that it should specifically be stated what an exchange rate supplement has brought in revenue, I think it makes very good sense for us to follow both European and international standards in relation to financial reporting. So there is, in substance, such a rejection on our part. Then perhaps there is a little more to the occasion: it has been mentioned in the comments, and it has been mentioned several times from the platform, that there is, of course, this specific situation where, within a relatively short period of time, there have been a number of suppliers who have made very similar price increases, and there I am glad that this is something that the Competition and Consumer Authority is looking at. That is what we have the competition authorities to do, in other words to ensure that no one deals with prices and thereby eliminates competition, and that is why I am very pleased that the specific case mentioned here is being looked at. But I also think, out of respect for that study and independence, that we must wait nicely for the outcome of that study and not anticipate it by saying that whatever the answer is a price cap. In any case, it is essential for me that the competition authorities should have the opportunity to make their assessment before going to such a far-reaching proposal as a price ceiling. However, as I said, I am very pleased that the competition authorities are looking into this matter. I am always concerned that we have competition authorities which are strong and effective and which can intervene. Because when competition is put out of business, it is the consumer who loses, that is, when the market is not freely priced, and if anyone makes agreements in the gate. Nothing good will come of that. That is why we need strong competition authorities to enforce free competition and, of course, they must also have the opportunity to make their announcement in the specific case, and this underlines why we in the Left cannot support this resolution. I think the competition authorities should be quiet enough to handle their investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170519	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170523	Thank you. The Left always says that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane, but why should it only apply to taxes and taxes which, after all, can go to something that also gives some value at the other end? Why should this not also apply to a private area where there are very few players? That is one question. Then the rapporteur will certainly say that we are now awaiting this study. Well, I should be very surprised if the investigation results in proof that cartels have been formed. Cartel formation is very serious and can give up to 6 years in prison, so most likely the banks haven't been so stupid to agree on this price increase. But you can, of course, keep a very close eye on what your competitors do when they set prices. So in the event that there is no evidence of unlawfulness that is the second question Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen then still take away the discussion whether it is unreasonable or not, whether it is illegal or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170628	See, what is central to the Left, when we say that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane, are the things we decide here at Christiansborg. We should not raise taxes and charges, the Danes should not turn in any more of their money in taxes and taxes. These are the things we decide in here. But if the price of carrots or milk rises in the free market, yes, it will be a little more expensive to be a Dane, but that is not something we have decided. We have basic confidence that we are dealing with some things in here while leaving free market prices to the market. Nor do I believe that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and the SF believe that if the price of carrots is raised, it is a political problem and that we will then have to compensate the Danes and introduce a ceiling on the price of carrots. Just to make it clear that there is a significant difference between politically determined costs and what is in the market. I think, as I said, the authorities should be at peace. Things that can be done to promote competition, just as we have done in the mortgage market, I am in principle always in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170729	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170731	However, in the carrot and other food market, there are quite large price differences, whether you go into one or the other retail trade. This proposal from Enhedslisten has come on the basis that three large banks have seen a very significant increase in prices by 50%. Let me rephrase my question: will the Left not help to tighten up the law at least, that is, if you are willing to set a ceiling, then at least tighten the law? What does it mean in this paragraph of the Payment Service Act that there are unfair prices, for there is therefore an elastic band in meter size, as it is described today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170814	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170816	But I would like to repeat that we are opposed to price ceilings. Basically, we do not think there is much sense in this, quite the contrary. It could also be and I think that the Minister for Business was also referring to the fact that if some people are experiencing a market where there are some services that are disproportionate, then some will find new ways and new forms of payment will also be developed. Previously, it was exceptionally expensive to use your mobile phone across national borders. Among other things, it got... services like Skype to occur because you who could communicate for free. Then I know that there are some who would say that we have now made roaming agreements and things like that, but we did not do so when there was free pricing there was innovation. And that's not gonna happen much anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170901	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424170903	It was a good thing that the rapporteur took this into account, because there were, in fact, exactly some price ceilings that were introduced there. But in general I think that when we have these debates we have such a very idealistic and a little theoretical starting point on free competition: it works, prices rise and if we set a price ceiling there will be no competition. However, if we look at the financial sector and the mortgage sector, I think the rapporteur will find it difficult to point out a fee that has fallen in the last ten years. We see one development, and that is that Danish bank customers are being used as economic dairy cattle. This merely suggests that there is no competitive situation in the carrot market as opposed to that in the carrot market. That is why we are seeing this development, and that is why we are saying that in these areas where there is something close to monopoly situations, with very few and large players and very few debit cards, it may be that intervention is needed, as has been seen in some other areas over time. Will the rapporteur not recognise that the carrot market is slightly different from the financial sector and the payment service market?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171011	Of course there is a difference, but it could be that we should all, as consumers, look as carefully at the prices of our bank, at our mortgage institution, at our insurance, as the Danes are diligent in reading offer papers. I am disappointed when I see how little time the Danes spend considering whether they have the right assurance, whether they have the real financial institution. I heard the other day that the average time for a house buyer to decide which mortgage you go home is 2 hours. It's the biggest economic decision you make. I also think that we should sort out ourselves and each other in this way and say that we as consumers have some opportunities and that we should also remember to make use of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171059	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171101	You can always wipe it off on ordinary people. But what's probably the problem with this area is that it's a little easier to go to another supermarket and buy carrots than to change your bank business. It may be that you have your mortgage, your car loan, your overdraft there, everything you have in your bank. It doesn't just change into another bank because 50% has been added. in addition to an exchange rate supplement. That way, there isn't that flexibility in this market. That is why I think that even from a liberal point of view the Left should also consider whether there is any need to look at regulation of this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171142	I think it's good that the competition authorities are looking into this. I think that is quite reasonable. And then it could be that if there were more Danish consumers looking at the competing companies a little more generally, and not only when they bought carrots, competition would be sharpened, that is, if consumers were a little more volatile. People almost change their mates more often than they change their financial institutions, and that may be one of the main problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171214	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171237	Thank you for that, President. I am not going to make a very long speech, because my points have already been mentioned by previous rapporteurs and also by the Minister. We cannot, of course, support this resolution either, because it has consequences which we clearly believe would be contrary to the intentions. We are in favour of competition; we are in favour of a free market; we do not want to protect any companies. We want to ensure that there is regulation that creates a free market, and one of the characteristics of a free market is competition, that is. better products and lower prices over time. Price ceilings lead to the opposite, and there are plenty of examples of this. It's not just theoretical, it's practical. We know price ceilings from the taxi industry, where all companies settled on two prices that were entirely up to the price ceiling. We are also familiar with it from the housing sector, which is one of the most regulated sectors, and in which, ultimately, the existence of price ceilings has a large number of negative consequences for consumers. In fact, I recognise that there is some inconsistency in some parts of the world, but that is how it is. That is certainly not an argument for introducing even more price ceilings. So we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171407	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171412	It is always nice to have these very clear positions, but I just want to hear of pure interest whether the Liberal Alliance is also opposed to the ceilings that were put in place now it was the rapporteur on the Left who mentioned that on roaming in Europe. I think that most people will probably stumble a little if the rapporteur here would think that this has led to rising prices for consumers. I believe that most of us can remember what we might be able to pay in the past when we went on the Internet in another European country. So is it not precisely an example of the fact that a price ceiling has actually led to significantly lower prices for the consumer?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171445	That is the question, because there are other prices that have risen. It is, as far as I remember, some of the domestic prices. If I had known I would have that question, I would have prepared myself for it. But there are also consequences associated with that price ceiling. In addition, the whole telecommunications sector is a rather special sector, since it has not been entirely based on market conditions. It is, of course, characterised by the fact that there are some private companies, but the history has often been such that it has been large public companies with monopolies which have then been privatised. And that privatisation has been wise, but has not been carried out equally wisely everywhere, so you just got back with some big private monopolies. We're not for that either. Generally speaking, it can be seen that deregulation of the telecommunications sector has resulted in lower prices for consumers and a huge supply of different products, and it can also be seen that customers often change suppliers. But to think that the fact that a ceiling on roaming prices has been set has had no costs anywhere is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171553	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171555	As far as I remember, we also have a lot of price regulation, for example. on the Dankort, and the Dankort is one of the cheapest payment services in a free market with competition for visas and master cards. Nevertheless, the map is the very cheapest, because it is regulated in a special way for a few years to come, at least because, unfortunately, the European Union has forced us to abandon that regulation, as far as I remember from 2020. Isn't that a little weird? Should it not be the case that the others were much cheaper, i.e. visa and master cards and the others, in Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's world?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171628	One of the things about price ceilings is that you can look in isolation at the price somewhere and say that in isolation it has led to a lower price, but the cost can then come elsewhere. I don't want to be smart on the dance chart. If I had known that I had the question, I would have prepared myself for it, but it is quite generally acknowledged, also empirically, that price ceilings have some harmful effects on competition, on innovation. There are plenty of examples of it from the real world, and I am sure that if you go into detail with the examples that Mr. Pelle Dragsted will also be able to find that they have some costs. You cannot always see them, but sometimes we also have to try not only to focus on what we can see but also what the consequences are of the things we introduce.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171718	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424171727	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution. I think it is a really, very good topic to address in the Parliamentary Chamber. I also remember, as there were a lot of parties out there beating the drum so that there could be some truth in this, being something arbitrary in that prices just increased on these payments you made abroad while volume increased, and you couldn't really figure out what it was. I am also a consumer rapporteur, but it is mostly as a business rapporteur that I am standing here. We all agreed that something had to be done. It is good to hear that there is a break that transparency, like Mr. Pelle Dragsted also asked about a few of the rapporteurs, we must at least be able to agree on. Then we wait for the investigation and see if there is really no competition on the market and then there will be action on it. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also said that it is probably not the big whip that is coming. It should be weird if there have simply been exactly agreed prices, but when you have a market as narrow as this one with such big players, I think it makes sense to talk about a price ceiling. I can well follow the idea from several parties and also from the Minister that the price ceiling should be watched every once in a while. However, it is not in a market that is as transparent as this one, where there are such large players who have such a large market share as is the case here. A good example of how difficult it is to get an overview here is, of course, and I must confess with shame that I am the dilettant in this example, that when I travel no later than 5-6 weeks ago I have not actually entered myself as a business rapporteur, whether it is really best for me to click the euro or Danish kroner when I stand there at the payment machine. When's the best time? I asked an employee in the kiosk where I had to pay what was just best for me, and then she replied that it was best for her if I printed here and I didn't even remember whether it was euro or Danish kroner. It is often so little the individual payment or the individual transaction is, so it is not always easy to get involved in it. But this is an example of a much, much bigger problem. The offer catalogue, which the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned just now, should be something we all looked at as in the offer papers, i.e. the list of fees in the banks, just as we look at what the price of milk is. The reason why we are not doing this is that it is completely opaque. If we now got an offer paper in which it said exactly what the individual products cost, and you could see what it would cost you on an annual basis, what it is that we get, what it is that you get, what service it is that comes with, then it might well be that it got interesting. But it's really hard to make these comparisons, so this resolution helps us all to understand how complex it is and how impossible it is for the citizen to understand. We were actually prepared to accept this motion for a resolution. I am actually still away from that, but let us see where we end up in committee. It is always a little dangerous to go in and make a decision when there is some study work going on. It's better to wait for it. But transparency and clarity about what is really going on, which banks make the most of it and when individual prices have been raised, I think that is something that we must go in and say yes to. I can barely see any arguments against it. So thank you for the motion for a resolution, and then, in general, a loud flag for the fact that price ceilings are not always something that just means that prices land on what is just below the ceiling and that therefore we should not have them. No, if it is in a limited market with very large players, I think it is very healthy that we, as politicians, should go in and say that we should look at this. Now it's shaking my head, so maybe I need a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172104	I don't think so. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172116	Thank you. Thank you to Enhedslisten for making this proposal. As several of my colleagues have mentioned, there are three elements in it: 1) a ceiling on the exchange rate surcharge of 1% respectively. and 11⁄2%, 2) a specification of how much you as a customer pay for this exchange rate supplement, and finally 3) that banks should specify how much they make on the exchange rate supplement. We in the SF think that this is a very good proposal. An alternative, and that is what I was trying to ask you in relation to the rapporteur of the Left, could be precisely to tighten up the legislation so that it was more explicitly described when it was unfair prices. It is described in section 79 that it is when prices move too far away from what they would be under fair competition and what is it then? I often find it interesting to have these discussions, because this proposal is also symptomatic of a major debate we have, namely that when there are relatively few large players, in this case in the financial sector, what does that mean? I've been interested for a long time in competition law... a little geeky maybe... especially American competition law. After all, until the 1960s they had perhaps the world's best competition law under the name of antitrust. It goes back to the two presidents, Woodrow Wilson and Roosevelt, who had such an idealistic view of how to deal with monopolies and how to ensure proper competition, both in order to ensure a healthy market, but also in order to guarantee consumers and ultimately democracy. At that time, 800,000 American farmers gathered in one movement because the monopoly conditions on the rail network meant that there were absolutely monstrous prices for them. And that association was like the beginning of what became known as American antitrust law. I had little more to say to the Enhedslisten's proposal than that we support it, so I thought I might as well use the opportunity to tell you about it. But now the point comes with my story, because the point here is that you had some of the world's best competition legislation until the 1960s, where under the influence of Milton Friedman and the whole Chicago School you like to re-defined and redefined what you understood by competition and by monopolies. And it was precisely this Milton Friedman view that when you have consumers who have perfect information about the market and there is perfect competition, there will always be some who will come in with a cheaper product • ergo you can hardly have monopolies. Well, there will always be some who can offer a cheaper product. That is the more fundamental view and the difference I also hear in today's debate, when some of us say that there is not always a perfect market. Sometimes there are market failures, and what we are discussing here today is a clear example of that. On the other hand, we have the Left, the Conservative and the Liberal Alliance, which I hear a little bit, and that was Mr. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned, saying: Well we have a free market and the free market must be able to function on its own. It is of course a fundamental difference, i.e. whether competition in a free market will function on its own, as some say there is no need for intervention or whether, as others say, some clear market errors can be seen. We see an area where there are Visa Cards and Mastercards as debit cards on one side, and then you have a few banks on the other. And Mr. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned that although it is an unreasonable increase to pay 50%. more in one blow, that's not what makes you change your entire banking business. Many are also full customers with insurance and pensions and all sorts of other things. It doesn't just fit your feet. You don't just buy your carrots somewhere else to use that example from before. I thought it was a liberal view that, in order to ensure a good market, there is sometimes a need to intervene in a dysfunctional market in order to restore balance. I therefore hope that the Minister will be willing to look at what we shall do if there is no willingness to support this proposal, and I have not heard that today. Well, what's it gonna take? Is it to look at the payment service law, possibly. Make it right, or what's gonna happen? Because I think this is just one of many examples. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172625	We managed to use our speaking time. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172630	Thank you very much for your support, and thank you for a very exciting story, and I didn't actually know it, and that's exactly what's at the heart of this. We have left something that is basically a central infrastructure to private operators in this case. So before there was anything called electronic money and electronic payments, we had cash. They were issued by the National Bank, and we had that under control. Now we have means of payment as a credit card, which we had a certain hold on, in which we are now completely losing, and which, as we know it today, will probably be settled in a few years' time, and then we are left to some multinational giants such as VISA and Master, who will be responsible for an infrastructure that all people have to use. So my question is really just more fundamental to SF, and that is something I think about myself, so should there really be a public alternative to these kinds of means of payment, and is that the way to look, especially when the Dankort is phased out in a few years' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172739	This is a very exciting discussion. In fact, I think that the Minister may be right about one thing, and that is that there are some other tools coming in within a very short time, that is to say biometric ways of paying, even facial recognition; there are many things that we cannot even imagine today in relation to the way we pay. But to be able to pay in one way or another, you should think that I do, at least I was basic infrastructure, because you should be able to offer a way to pay. It is, of course, a discussion we often have about what is actually in the constitution and what is reality in relation to the money system and the way we pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172825	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172826	At least it is often that we are challenged on that point. The latest thing that the Consumer Council Thinked has raised is Apple Pay, which forces you to use the VISA card rather than the Dankort, and VISA has higher fees; it is a new case that is on the way to being raised. It shows, of course, that these payment services are unscrupulous when they want to get into the pockets of the citizens, and that is why I hope that the SF will continue to stick with us on this, because that is something that is straining the economy of ordinary people and will come to it more and more in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172900	Well, I totally agree. There is also the aspect of the debate that it reveals a great deal about us as people, what we spend our money on. There are electronic bread crumbs when we use electronic means of payment, and so will there be if it is in quite different ways. The only thing that doesn't is almost cash. So there is also the whole, what should I say, the privacy and data protection aspects of this, which I also think it is important to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172930	We thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and move on to Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424172937	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for tabling the motion for a resolution. It is, after all, a motion for a resolution containing three elements, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned: a ceiling on the exchange rate surcharge for the use of payment cards abroad; the provider must specify to the customer which transactions relate to exchange rate conversion; and finally, a requirement must be introduced for financial institutions to specify income from exchange rate supplements in their annual balance sheet. Despite the many well-intentioned intentions that I am sure lie behind the resolution, we in the Conservative People's Party cannot, of course, support it, and this is due to several things. First of all, there is already a ban in the legislation today on unfair charges, prices and profit margins, and that is why this proposal also implies a double regulation of prices which we think is inappropriate. At the same time, a statutory price limit tends to be price-forming in the market, as we have also heard several rapporteurs mention earlier, so I will not go into that further. The last thing that I think is important in relation to this is in relation to this case, which is also running at the Consumer Protection Agency, where the price increases which, among other things, are already being examined. The motion for a resolution is based on the motion for a resolution. So there is already a case pending in this area, which I also think there will be a need to clarify before making an assessment of whether there is a need to intervene politically. We must always be careful as legislators in fixing prices in commercial markets, because everything else will reduce competition. It also reduces the likelihood of new players entering the market and creates increased competition and innovative products. In relation to imposing requirements on financial institutions, i.e. whether they are going to specify income from exchange rate supplements, it may sound like a sympathetic idea at first hand, but it also has a disadvantage, because the requirements of Danish financial statements follow international practice, and it is precisely to ensure that annual accounts can be compared across countries. So if you introduce such a special rule here in Denmark, it will make everything else equally less transparent compared to comparing annual accounts across countries. Finally, it would also, we think, be an unnecessary burden to put on these companies when they have to make financial statements. So that's among other things. on the grounds that we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173231	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173234	I understand the position of principle, but what amazes me a little is that, for example, we do. In relation to the Dankort, price adjustments have been made. Only with the most recent payment law we adopted, which came into force here on 1 January, a ban was imposed on the payee having to charge a fee. Is it also subversive to competition? That's up to the payee himself. You can just go to another store. Or is it only when regulation comes from the European Union that we must set different types of price cap and ban on different charges, but we must not intervene even here in the Folketing when we see that there is something similar to coordinated action by banks to pull extra penalties out of the pockets of the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173323	I think there are two things to say to the questioner. At first I do not think that a fee of one thing is an argument for introducing a fee on another. However, with regard to the very specific issue, I would like to say that this is a pending matter, and I think it would be a little premature if we were to start to legislate in an area in which there is indeed a matter that is being tried by an agency, in relation to whether the existing legislation could actually already solve some of the challenges mentioned by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173355	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173356	I fully acknowledge that part. We have tried to find out when this matter was closed, and we have not been able to get an answer to that. But the Minister has then indicated today that it is expected to be during the fourth quarter of this year. Hopefully they will say that these fees will have to be reduced again, because that is what happens if they allow the Consumer Council to think. Otherwise, I hope that the rapporteur will be prepared to take up the discussion again in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173424	Well, we want transparency and free competition. Transparency and free competition are, in fact, what we think is essential. And it is clear that if the Consumer Council thinks about going in and saying that there has been no proper competition in this area and that these charges have been unfair, it is of course something we have to look at. However, our starting point is that as long as there is a case going on at this body, we should not intervene in political matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173450	Thanks to Anders Johansson. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424173459	Thank you very much, and also many thanks for a good debate, including for those parties which have expressed their full or partial support for the proposal. Last summer, in many ways, was not the best we have had, and there were probably a number of Danes who rushed to get a ticket to the south at the last minute. But there was a rather dull surprise waiting for them, because in the months leading up to the summer break all major Danish banks had, in fact, in something difficult to see as anything other than a coordinated action, raised what is called the exchange rate surcharge by 50%. This meant that the Danes who were on summer holidays abroad had to pay 50%. more in fees when they e.g. had to pay a hotel bill or pay for a restaurant visit with their VISA credit card. Thank you for the small summer holiday gift from the banks to the Danes, one might say, such a small penalty fee on holiday. And that's a little strange thanks, for the time we've allowed the banks to stand for a very central part of our infrastructure. To be honest, I think it is very difficult in these years to see that they are fulfilling the responsibility, because what we see is that the Danes are being used time and again as economic dairy cattle. It is being tried out in here, but so far there has been no willingness to do anything about it. The latest fee increase here has the daily newspaper Politiken calculated will cost the Danes 175 million. kr. a year. After all, it is also a kind of money, from the Danes' pockets down into the banks' boxes. It is a little difficult to see the reasonableness of banks raising the price of swinging the VISA card. The technology has just gone in the right direction for the banks... it has become cheaper to make the transactions... and at the same time the volume has increased. From 2009 to 2016, the Danes have doubled their use of these cards abroad. That's 65 billion. DKK, which is being paid via Danish cards abroad now. In a normal competitive situation, prices would probably be expected to fall if there were successful competition. But there just isn't! That is why I also regret the fact that so many rapporteurs have such a little idealistic or theoretical belief that free competition will only solve all problems. Firstly, it is actually rather opaque for the Danes what they actually pay in exchange rate supplements. You can't see it in your online bank, you can only see the amount you've paid. You can then try to translate into what it has been in the currency you paid in, and if you know the exchange rate then you might be able to figure out what the fee is. But who sits and does it? Secondly, even if there was proper transparency and you could actually say, "Hey, my bank is blocking me a little too much because this isn't the way to move your banking business. Well, it may be that you have your house insurance and car insurance and pension savings and bank credit in this bank. Finally, one might ask whether competition works when we see that a number of large banks are actually all large banks, as far as I remember • almost at the same time changed their fees with exactly the same increase. This is not usually a sign that free competition works. After all, this is happening at a time when banks are paying out historically large dividends to their shareholders, where there are large buy-back programmes for billions of dollars. In that time, you turn up the Danes' holiday expenses: Oh, I guess we can always get a little more in the box anyway. It's like there's no end to the greed in that sector in this time. It can be said that, in such a situation, I think it is obvious that as politicians we have a responsibility to set our feet and stand on the side of ordinary people with the financial sector, which obviously cannot live up to the responsibility that we have given it. That is, in fact, the purpose of this proposal, which has been explained, i.e. to set a ceiling on the fee, which is at the level it was before it was raised here at the latest, and to ensure greater transparency. This summer, when the case rolled, there were several parties who were out to say that you were ready to look at this. I hope that this will be maintained and that we in the committee can make some kind of report on what is about transparency so that we can send out a clear signal there. At least I'm gonna work for that. Then we will have to wait for the case before the competition authorities to decide whether this increase was legal. If the matter falls to the Consumer Council Think of the advantage, the banks will be forced to lower the price again, and that will be pleasing. If that does not happen, I think it is right to do what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says, namely look at whether that law is tight enough as it is today. But we have to get back to that. Thank you again for the debate and receipt of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424174035	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180424174049	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 25 April, at 10 a.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
