ParlaMint-DK_20180323100012	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews, and on the basis of the many submissions I shall not read the titles; I will mention only the numbers: the Minister of Taxation (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 207 (Proposal for a law amending the Merger Tax Act. Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill No. L 208 (Proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Older Minister (Thyra Frank): Bill No. L 209 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Bill No. L 210 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services and the Law on Social Supervision. Bill No. L 211 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 212 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act, the Medical Act and the Law on Clinical Testing of Medicinal Products. Bill No. L 213 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Bill No. L 214 (Proposal for a law on compensation for second-hand asbestos victims. Martin Henriksen (DF) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and others.: Bill No. L 215 (Proposal for a Law amending the Aliens Act, the Vacation Act and the Law on Danish Education for Adult Aliens and Others) Pelle Dragsted (EL) and Rune Lund (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 108 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ceiling on fees for electronic debit cards for payments abroad). Stine Brix (EL) and Pernille Skipper (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 109 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on social emergencies for citizens with mental disorders living in their own homes). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 110 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of caring for the relatives of terminal patients wishing to die outside the home). Jacob Mark (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 111 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a Commission for the Welfare of Children and Young People). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 112 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on company practice). Christian Juhl (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 113 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the right of the Minister of Employment to approve, in exceptional circumstances, the use of the initial capital of the Social Fund for Holidays) and motion for a resolution No. B 114 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Vacation Act and the Regulations of the Social Fund to enable applications for loans to be made on favourable terms to cultural institutions, holiday homes, etc.) Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 115 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution introducing an obligation to notify insurance companies to public authorities when fraud is discovered), motion for a resolution No. B 120 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the permanent storage of fingerprints in the fingerprint register), motion for a resolution No. B 131 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the sharpening of sentences in connection with the murder of several persons) and motion for a resolution No. B 132 (Proposal for a decision of the Parliament that an infringement of the conditions laid down by the judgment should always trigger a retrial of the person concerned before a judge). Christian Poll (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 116 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the implementation of the polluter pays principle for drinking water resources degraded or destroyed by pesticides through a collective sectoral scheme). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 117 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the full disclosure of economic calculations). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 118 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the phasing out of the Ankara Agreement of 1963 on an association agreement between the European Union and Turkey) and motion for a resolution No. B 130 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a referendum prior to Danish participation in the EU banking union). René Gade (ALT) and Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT): Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 119 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the duty of politicians to register gifts and to prohibit the receipt of certain gifts). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 121 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution allowing young people over the age of 18 to be placed outside the home). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 122 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better guidance and information for the relatives of sick and elderly weakened fellow citizens) and motion for a resolution No. B 128 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the accessibility of people with disabilities for new and rebuilt single-family houses). Hans Kristian Skibby (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 123 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the stepping up of penalties in cases of illegal trade in cigarettes and better opportunities for the police to carry out enhanced controls). Karina Due (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 124 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the tightening up of penalties for pet theft). Liselott Blixt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 125 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on reducing the risk of infection by legionella bacteria from hot water systems in Denmark). Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Christian Poll (ALT) and Trine Torp (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 126 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of wild animals in circuses). Jakob Silverhøj (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 127 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on ensuring the participation of disabled people in public awareness activities). Henning Hyllested (EL) and Søren Søndergaard (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 129 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cessation of the provision of railway services in Denmark). Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 133 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of the mental well-being of children and young people in the introduction of a clipboard for leisure activities). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 134 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution imposing a ban on the use of neonicotinoids). Roger Courage Matthisen (ALT) and Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 135 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on proof of equal pay). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 136 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equal treatment of language skills and qualifications between doctors in Denmark trained in the EU/EEA and third countries respectively). Josephine Fock (ALT) and Pernille Schnoor (ALT): Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 137 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a certification scheme for interpreters and a register of certified interpreters). Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT): Request no. F 27 (How can older people achieve noticeable improvements in their mental health, and how can we ensure preventive methods so that fewer elderly people are miserable and drugged?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180323100350	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323100413	The debate is open, Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323100446	Danish higher education contributes decisively to growth and prosperity. When we look at the last 10-15 years, there is no doubt that the social importance of higher education has increased significantly. On the admission alone, we can see that they have become more of a central social institution. More than 65,000 people were admitted to higher education this summer, and this is basically very positive. At the same time, the development means that, on the political side, we must constantly consider how to ensure the best possible framework for higher education, which, on the one hand, ensures that everyone has free and equal access to very high-quality education and, at the same time, also meets the social spirit required by the size of higher education. This ensures the right match between education and society, where education is a crucial contributor to growth and prosperity in Denmark. In the autumn we reached an agreement between all the parties of the Folketing on a reform of the licensing system for higher education. It is a reform which, for the Social Democrats, is a crucial step in ensuring that higher education in particular remains essential for continued growth and prosperity. With the bill we are discussing here today, we will also have the opportunity to implement the agreement. This is welcome, and I would like to sign up for the very good cooperation that has been between all the rapporteurs on this very important point. It is wonderful to stand and have an agreement as broad as the one that is present today, because it is important that we have the broad agreements so that we can continue to ensure stability and peace of working life. As far as social democracy is concerned, it is an important agreement with many good elements. With the agreement on the reform of the licensing system, we are dealing first and foremost with the imbalance that has so far existed in the licensing system, where there has been too much focus on quantity rather than quality. And with the size and social significance that I believe universities and higher education have, it is true that we are now saying that the focus of the appropriation system should no longer be precisely on quantity, but should be shifted to quality. The new focus is first and foremost ensured by the introduction of the basic grant. This brings greater stability to the appropriations, and it has been requested. It must also help to ensure that the focus can be kept precisely on raising quality. But quality measurements, which are now being introduced on a serious and real basis, will also help to increase the institutions' focus on quality. I look forward to delving further into the work with all the other rapporteurs of the Danish Parliament's parties in order to define the framework for the future quality measurement. This is already expected to happen this year. For the Social Democratic Party, it is fundamental that education should lead to jobs and help ensure that we still have skilled employees in the private sector, as well as in the public sector. It is for us to see core tasks, and everything else is to do the students who, of course, want a job when they are finished with their education, a disservice, while at the same time it will mean that society is not served with it if there is no job and a match between jobs and education. It is therefore also gratifying that the new reform is getting even more focus on the transition to jobs. It is not new that there is a focus on employment in the higher education framework, but it is positive that the reform strengthens focus through the newly introduced performance grant. We want good education throughout the country. Therefore, it is also good that a decentralised basic grant is introduced to support this. There is no doubt that the new allocation system contains new elements, and there is also naturally an important and important task for all of us in ensuring a good transition between the new and the current allocation system. It is therefore also positive that we have ensured an evaluation as early as 2023 when we have had a full run-through of all elements. It allows for the implementation of the new appropriation system in a good and proper way. With the new allocation system, we thus support the basis for higher education to remain crucial to growth and prosperity, and on this basis the Social Democracy can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323100928	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next one is sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323100941	The reform of the funding of higher education, universities, professional colleges and professional academies is, in the eyes of the Danish People's Party, a very good agreement, and I, like the previous rapporteur, also welcome the fact that it is an agreement in which all parties in the Danish Parliament are still absent. The legislative proposal we are discussing today provides the basis and framework for the implementation of the agreement. The focus of the agreement is, as has also been mentioned, an increase in the quality of education and a strengthened management focus on good teaching, so that the teaching gets a higher weight than it may have in many places today, because good teaching is at least as important as good research. We will have a fight with a focus on quantity and more focus on quality. A basic grant of 25% is given, which gives a more robust situation against fluctuations in student mass and gives motivation not to increase admission as the new taximeter grant per year. student that way around gets smaller than it is now. At the same time, we know that there are, for example, may be needed for us to train more engineers. That is why the agreement also provides for additional funds to be allocated to those areas in which we specifically want to encourage the inclusion of more people. There is a basic grant for decentralised training provision, and it is really important that we support existing procurements around the country and encourage, hopefully, that more can be created along the way. Because we need a very decentralized supply of many of the training that is needed around the country so that demand can also be met. There is a basic grant which is reviewed after four years on the basis of an assessment of quality. It has given quite a lot of discussion how to measure this quality, but in the Danish People's Party we think it is really important that we start an attempt to measure the quality. It can always be discussed how good it can be, but we have to work on it and discuss in the contract circle how we ensure that we measure quality properly. The activity grant remains a taximeter grant as it is today, but at a lower level and in a more simplified form. There is also an agreement that we should look at the levels of taximeter supplements and whether there are some taximeter supplements that need to be adjusted. We must do this in the context of discussing the report by the Committee on Higher Education. It is a report that we received quite recently and which has a lot of interesting suggestions in it, which I look forward to discussing afterwards. A very special point which, in connection with this agreement, has been very important for the Danish People's Party is that we are doing something to ensure a better framework for students with disabilities. In particular, following the implementation of the progress reform, we have seen examples of students with disabilities who have been more difficult to complete their studies. For many people with disabilities, training is particularly necessary to provide a place in the labour market. There are more problems. It can be something with dispensations; it can be something with getting the right teaching material; and it can be something with having the necessary time to take up your education. It is part of the agreement that students with disabilities, sick students and students on maternity leave should have the opportunity to have extra time. It is also part of this agreement that an additional framework is given to the institution so that it can adjust the requirements for rapid completion. At the same time, the Minister undertakes to follow up issues related to exemption practices and contexts in the education system, where it presents challenges for example. students with disabilities. We look forward to the Minister doing something about this in the near future. But overall, we in the Danish People's Party believe that this is a good agreement that simplifies and improves the funding system. We can therefore support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323101336	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323101353	Thank you for the floor. Back in November last year, we reached a broad agreement on a new grant system for higher education aimed at increasing the quality of education and strengthening the management focus on good education and creating a better transition to post-graduate jobs. It was, as Mrs Mette Reissmann also mentioned in her speech, a very good process in which there was broad consensus. The agreement resulting from this draft law is the one on which the new appropriation system is based. It is based on the assumption that grants and the amount of grants are set out in the annual financial laws. And with the current proposal, we are changing, among other things. the rules establishing that the grant is determined on the basis of the number of annual students. With this bill, we are thus making it possible to implement the agreement itself. As I said when we landed the agreement back in the autumn, Denmark needs education with a focus on quality so that the individual can live out his life dream of becoming a valuable citizen. I think that, with the new system of funding for higher education, we have created a good and solid foundation for future students. And it is the case that with the broad consensus that has been reached on the aim, work can continue on this issue if necessary. The Left, of course, supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323101520	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323101535	The grant system, which this bill is about, is, after all, the whole key to how money from the state is being distributed to universities, professional colleges and business academies. The old taximeter system in the area had long needed an update, and last year all the parties of the Danish Parliament entered into the Enhedslisten and saw this agreement for a new licensing system for higher education. From the Enhedslisten side we support the bill because we think it is good that a larger share of the money in the new system will be distributed on the basis of basic grants and taximeter grants. We are happy about that and that a smaller share of the money will depend on completion and results, which we are critical of. This is particularly good and positive in the new agreement here, I think that a basic subsidy of 25% will be introduced. This has long been a wish of us in the Enhedslisten, because it gives more freedom for the institutions to manage their entire operation themselves. And when I read through the consultation answers, I can see that there is also very much satisfaction with this here, both from the Danish Students Common Council, the Danish Magister Association and the universities, so many of the players. It is also very important for us in the Enhedslisten that the agreement does away with parts of the drive reform. This includes, for example, the removal of this propulsion device, which has caused many problems for students and universities, and the better possibility for universities to manage the requirements themselves. I still think that the time limits for implementation are too tight, and basically I do not believe that you will get better quality by pushing students through more quickly. But I see it as a clear improvement in the new system here that much less money is tied up on how fast the students have to implement. In the old taximeter system for universities, for example, it was. such that 10%. the money was tied up to when the university students were completed. It was called the completion bonus. And that would go up to 17 percent. because of the progress reform. With the new system here, it's only 3.75%. of the total grant to the institutions, which depends on the student's implementation and speed. A supplement is also being introduced to give more time to students with illness or disability, and it is insanely important that something is being done for those groups of students, because they have been quite unfairly pressured over recent years. In the contract circle, we have discussed how this grant model should be designed, and I would probably have seen that things had turned out a little differently. But I have to say that it is my clear view that all parties agree that this is really important and that what needs to happen now is something that students must be able to recognise makes a difference in their everyday lives. So I hope that will land in the right way. In the Enhedslisten, we also find it very positive that we receive a special grant for smaller educational establishments outside the large cities. It is very important that we do something to maintain educational establishments throughout the country at a time when, unfortunately, more and more institutions are being forced to shut down. But there are also some problems in the agreement. The biggest problem, in my view, is that a performance grant is being introduced in which the student's employment rate after graduation will have an impact on this grant. I think that is simply an extremely bad idea, that is to say, to measure education in this way. And it is certainly not something that has grown in our backyard, but more over in the blue camp. Our education programmes should not be designed to satisfy the narrow interests of the business community, but should first and foremost have the purpose of forming the individual as a citizen of the community. It is also unfair, I think, to measure the way we do, because almost all graduates naturally have higher unemployment rates than the national average. There is nothing strange or problematic about this, nor should the educational institution be penalised financially for this. I also think it is very clear when we read the consultation answers that this element is, in particular, what is being criticized. I must also say that, through the negotiations, some of that criticism has actually been listened to. The proportion of money connected to this employment criterion has also been reduced to 3.75%, and we have actually agreed that it should not increase and that there should be a thorough evaluation of how it works. I really expect there to be a lot of problems, including the practical implementation of this, and it is of course our desire on the part of Enhedslisten to reach a place where we can have the result grant removed completely. Finally, I would like to say that there are also many of the consultation answers that will address the forthcoming debate on quality that we must have in the contract circle. And we haven't even started there yet, but I think it's really important to take note of the warning that comes in many of them, namely that you shouldn't rely on a bunch of questionnaires from students, but that we should look at it in a much more nuanced way. And I hope that will be possible in future work. Finally, it can be said that some of us have been asked along the way by journalists about how the government's 2-percent cuts in education are related to this system. And I just have to say that this is the key for the money itself, so that doesn't add up. But on my own account I would say that I hope that we will soon have some more money for education that we can pour through the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323102115	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323102124	Thank you. The draft law, which we are discussing here, contains several elements which follow up the government's agreement with all of the other parties of the Folketing on a new licensing system for higher education. An appropriation system has been agreed which will increase the transparency of appropriations and, overall, will be simpler than the current system. These are qualities which, of course, we in the Liberal Alliance are pleased to see in the future will affect the licensing system of higher education. The bill is among other things: necessary for the new allocation system to be implemented in the Finance Act forward-looking. In the Liberal Alliance, we also welcome another element of the bill. Indeed, it is positive that Danish universities are given the freedom to acquire shares in capital companies when the company is set up as part of the EU's research and innovation collaborations. The Liberal Alliance, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323102227	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323102234	Thank you. Education is the main growth engine for society. This is often read in headlines, and we have also heard it in the Chamber today. But we also know that education is an important growth engine for oneself. Good education has a huge impact on the individual and on the ability of our children and future generations to build a society that can ensure a good and meaningful life for all people. And then we know that education strengthens equality. 90,563 young people applied last year for admission to higher education. 65,165 young people were enrolled in a study. The grant system is one of the most important things in Denmark; it is what makes sure that our children and young people are given the basic foundation for creating good lives. That is why, in the alternative, we are also included in the agreement. We want to take responsibility and therefore, of course, we are voting in favour of this bill. In the alternative, we want a fight with many of the rigid structures that our education systems consist of systems that exist for the sake of systems and for the sake of bureaucracy, not for the sake of the learning of children and young people. We want to move in a direction where we not only have an eye on the number of students, but also on the quality we offer; where we look not only at short-term labour market needs, but where we think new and think forward. It is important for us that we think of something other than the obvious training that business is screaming for. Right now it is science and technology, the so-called STEM programmes. The Minister said in connection with the admission last year, among other things, that it is a gain for all of us, and especially the young people themselves, if they can get a job after the study. We have urged young people to take this into account, and this year's inclusion indicates that they have listened. Fewer people, for example, stayed. Last year entered the artistic subjects. Of course, we need our education for jobs, but I believe that if we choose from our talent and interest, we will be more skilled, more motivated and more innovative employees and citizens in the end. One of the discussions in this regard has long been whether we need humanities and humanists. For example, we do. Need philosophers? I read a post in Fyens Stiftstidende written by a young woman, Frederikke Røn, named her, who has himself read philosophy. Among other things, she wrote.:... Where should we learn about morals? If you have spent your whole life in an environment where you have had to fend for yourself and it has been first come first, what are the prerequisites for being anything other than selfish? ▪ Philosophy is important. Humanities are becoming more and more important. Philosophers can, for example: used to help companies make ethical choices, and this will be very much needed in the future, the more technology takes over, not least in relation to robotization and data ethics. I therefore hope and believe that the new allocation system is a step in the right direction, for example. with the higher basic subsidy of 25%, so that the institutions themselves will be able to give more priority to which training they consider important to offer in the future too. I will end with two quotes by Albert Einstein. He has said about knowledge: Fantasy is more important than knowledge, because while knowledge includes everything that is, imagination includes everything that will be. And about problem solving he has said: we cannot solve our problems by thinking in the same way as when we created them. I hope that with the reform of appropriations we have thought about new things and that this is the first step towards giving the institutions more freedom and the opportunity to think about new things and to create education that includes not only knowledge of everything that is, but also imagination and ideas about what will come to be. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323102642	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323102653	I would like to begin by agreeing with the joy that this agreement brings together the whole of the Folketing. There are a lot of people in Denmark who are deeply dependent on how we finance our higher education, and therefore it is also a huge force that all the parties in the Folketing support this agreement. Because this means that there is a certain degree of certainty and a certain calm surrounding the licensing system on which the training courses rely. When, under the previous government, we set up the Quality Committee to look at these things, it was precisely on the basis which has also been part of several of the speeches here in the debate, namely that there seems to have been too much focus on quantity alone. As Minister for Education, I have also welcomed the fact that more and more students were admitted and more and more came through, and I think that is also right to welcome this, because I believe that education is the way we create the best Denmark for the future and that the investments we make in education are the most important we do. And that's why it matters, of course. However, when we set up the Quality Committee, it was because we were afraid that the quantity was going to overshadow the content of the training and that the focus was very much on how many people walked through the door and how quickly they could get through and get out to the other end, while there was far too little focus on what was going on in the extremely important period when you are actually on your education, which is perhaps the most basic and formal period in a young person's life. It was therefore also interesting to see that what the committee came up with and which also became the basis for the discussion under the current government was that it was necessary to change the crucial balances in the way in which training was financed. That is why we also went through our education rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, who unfortunately could not be in the debate today, to the negotiations with the desire to get a higher basic subsidy than that which the government had at first played out with, and we are glad that that was where the agreement landed. Because I think it is crucial that if you want training to focus more on content, then the educational institutions must also be confident that their funding is not constantly hanging in the air and depends on how much speed is going on. That is why we had perhaps also to some surprises, because in our reign we also had a focus on the other elements. We would have liked to see that you might have completely missed the elements of the new funding system, because we can see that there is actually a place today, where people are students, that there is a good culture of study, that through much pressure over the years, there has been a culture of study that holds people to and does not leave them to themselves. We're not done with that yet. There are still a lot of students who think that there is too little activity and too little content in their education, too few hours and too much that is left to you, but by increasing the basic grant you provide a better basis for having that discussion and thus also an increased focus on it. We did not quite get rid of the activity part of the appropriation system, but at least now there is an agreement which can then be discussed further. Then there is always a danger when you change systems; then you want to keep up with how things are going. Perhaps we can be a little concerned there that the bureaucracy that some people thought was associated with completion bonuses and all that sort of thing, maybe to some extent, is replaced by a new bureaucracy, that is to say, when we as Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl was talking about finding new ways to understand how the quality is going, which we are all concerned with, so becomes too heavy for reporting. But we must keep that in mind, and we must at least pay close attention to the fact that we are not going to drown educational institutions in new reporting and desk exercises. In conclusion, I do not want to fail to say 'cause it should not just be party and happiness all day long' that it is a good thing that there is a broad consensus on how the resources allocated to training should be distributed. But that does not change the fact that the boring trend of the parliamentary term we are in here has been that every time you have lacked money for something, you have pulled money out of the well, which is the Danish education system. This is the case with the police conciliation, which should be financed with savings on all youth education and higher education; this applies to the ceiling on education which we will be discussing in the near future. Now I was quite inspired by Mrs Pernille Schnoor, who pulled Einstein forward. Finally, I would like to draw Nelson Mandela's attention to the fact that education is the best tool to change the world. I hope we all will, but then we should be willing to invest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323103201	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323103211	Thank you. Then it's bad to be the unprepared person who can't pull out any quotes. I'm gonna have to try to stand there and think about if I can find something while I'm talking. Nevertheless, the SF is going to vote in favour of this bill because we believe that it is an improvement in the way education currently works and is funded. I think something exciting is happening in the education debate right now. It's like there's two wings, and I say that, even though everyone is actually in this bill and is behind it. Like that group of parties, politicians or opinion-formers, there are those who believe that education is there for the labour market and that we need to get young people through as quickly as possible so that we can increase labour supply and improve public finances. I don't belong to that group. I believe that education is there to free the individual, to form the individual for his further life. I believe that there should be room for reflection at educational establishments, that there should be peace of mind to make an effort, and that instead of focusing on finishing first, there should be a focus on getting the best done. You have to be proud of what you've done. When we're in this new proposal for a grant system, it's because we think it's in the bowl where you have more focus on quality and on time and immersion and less focus on completion and speed. It is very good for our young people at a time when they are being pressured. If we start with the part that is pulling in the wrong direction, this bill introduces a new grant based on the ability of education to get young people into work. This is a small part of the total grant of 3.75%. We don't think that's a very good idea. But we will work in the circle of contracting parties that come to work to ensure that the training courses use it in a good way, that they use it as an opportunity to perhaps think more internship or think stronger cooperation with companies, so that it becomes natural for young people, when they are in their final years, to have close contact with companies. Maybe this could end up being something good. Then there are the things we need to work on. Some of the grants will be linked to questionnaires, which we do not yet really know what to look like. There is at least the concern in the sector that if you add a subsidy to the questionnaires, people will just answer it in the questionnaires that are needed to get a higher subsidy. Will the students and teachers just answer what they know triggers a higher grant? That's not supposed to happen. What is meant is to ensure a higher quality. Then there are the things that I think lie in the bowl of things that are going to make our education system significantly better, and things that I would call regular victories. That is, for example, the case. the fact that you reward the education with a basic grant and say: Here is a fixed grant because you are an educational institution which educates our young people. It will be higher than it has been before, whereas the activity grant will be smaller. In general Danish, this means that you have more focus on stability and quality and less focus on educating as many young people as possible and as quickly as possible. More money is being given to decentralised invitations to tender. This means that tenders, which are not located in the big cities but are located around the Danish country, will receive a little more money. Among other things: Because of the government's savings, which have hit small decentralised procurement hard, it will be a helping hand at a time when study places are being closed out around. Then you turn down the finishing race and give the students more tranquillity, and that's kind of the most important thing. There has been so much focus for so many years on students having to train faster and faster so that we could get them out of the labour market more quickly. If we hadn't changed that, we wouldn't have done anything, 17 percent. of the grants of the programmes in 2020 were tied up to whether they were able to get the students through more quickly with the completion grant. With this new system, it's 3,75%. So that means that there is a higher basic grant, more to the central offer and less to get students through more quickly. That is a change in the way in which education is thought, and that is an important change. Finally, there are some minor things which are also really, really important and which are also victories. There will now be better opportunities for research years. There will be better opportunities for entrepreneurship. There will be extra time for barren, there will be extra time for those who have a disease, and there will be extra time for those students who have a disability, because our programmes must be spacious and we would like to have everyone with us and not just those who have a complete turbo on and go the straight road. So overall, this is moving our education system in the right direction. The part that wants more quality and less focus on completion has won a small victory with this bill, and it's great.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323103716	Thank you. The Conservative rapporteur is not here, and then it is the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323103731	Higher education is important for the future of Denmark, which is why I welcome the fact that all parties in the Folketing have chosen to accede to this bill. Then you can always dissect it; there can be different degrees of nuances for what you are happy about and what you are not so happy about. The government is pleased that there is complete agreement on an entire bill from a whole Parliament. I have no doubt that this is an overall improvement in a situation in which we change the Danish education system with a grant system, where you do away with the one-sided focus on quantity, and where you raise your eyes and focus on strengthening the education programmes. We need education at a high international level in Denmark. The new licensing system supports high quality training, and yes, it also focuses on the fact that candidates have opportunities to work, to get a profession afterwards when they come out. It is a goal to strengthen the leadership focus on good teaching. It is also a goal to ensure a better transition to jobs after studies, and that is precisely what the new basic grants, which are intended to give the institutions a desired job, must help to support. With the basic grant, the institutions will be given greater security of funding, as a smaller proportion of the appropriations depend on the training activity from year to year. The current allocation system consists of historical reasons for a wide variety of grants, which are implemented differently in universities and other higher education. The new licensing system will clean up. A common licensing system with lower tariffs and a uniform and clear framework for grants is being created. This, of course, requires adaptation in relation to education and institutional laws, and with the draft law it is proposed to amend a number of grant provisions. The changes mean that the annual financial laws will set the grants and the amount of the grants in the future. In those words, I would like to thank the Danish Parliament for it, indeed, I cannot only say broad support; I can say full support for the government's bill. It is gratifying to note that we have been able to come together on this, and in fact I think that all in all it has been an excellent process, where there is room for different views and where we have been able to agree to improve the Danish education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104014	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104028	The debate is open. Here you go, Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104103	This case calls for objectivity, care and thoroughness. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on which there is very broad political agreement on the basis of which all parties of the Folketing support. The motion for a resolution involves upgrading the Danish Decommissioning stock facilities on Risø. Upgrading will ensure that the storage of radioactive waste in the future also takes place under safe conditions and takes into account high-water protection, climate management and increased waste volume as the installations on Risø are dismantled. At the same time, opportunities will also continue to be sought to export the most radioactive waste or to participate in an international disposal solution for radioactive waste. Provided there is no international solution, in the long term a deep geological final depot shall be established in down to 500 metres of depth on Danish soil, which can later be used, no later than 2073. Hopefully, we have become wiser by then and have found a technological solution which means that we do not have to dig down the radioactive waste, but only time can tell. We must start to improve the safety of Risø so that it can also function as an information centre, while further studies are being carried out in the years to come. Throughout the process, great emphasis will be placed on involving relevant stakeholders and municipalities, and this is a solution that major nuclear nations such as Sweden, Finland and France are also working on. And a Danish final depot of this type will be able to build on the experiences of those countries. I shall conclude by saying that the Social Democrats support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104257	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104310	This proposal is about an issue that tends to give a lot of debate when it comes to finding solutions. Various possible solutions have been discussed for many years without any clear decisions being taken. I myself, as rapporteur in the field of health, have worked on this in the past, and now it has followed me on to this area, to research. However, it may also illustrate that this is an area in which it is difficult to find the right solutions. In particular, the process of possible disposal of waste has led to a very tough discussion and a tough rhetoric in many places in the country. It was created out of a process that has only caused resistance and that has led to a struggle to avoid getting the location in one's own local area. Now we have become wiser and have found that the intended location with an intermediate burial is not the optimal, and that is why it is good that we can say that we have not come to implement it, but can now take a new decision. In the Danish People's Party we certainly hope that with this resolution we will set aside the time for a good process for a future decision. At any rate, it is part of the agreement that the process must take place in good time and that we must be able to think and that we must be able to find the right solutions. At the same time, of course, it is also very important to say that we are now setting the time for ensuring that the conditions on Risø are first ensured in relation to the current location, so that it can also be a good location and a good solution for the next 50 years. It also provides a period for examining the possibility of exporting the waste. It has been difficult to turn around several times and, of course, it needs to be clarified along the way too in relation to whether the solution you see right now with a very deep stock is the best one. There is therefore also time to see whether technology helps us and whether we will find better solutions within the next 50 years. So, overall, the Danish People's Party believes that this resolution describes a good and sound solution that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104515	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104529	Thank you for the floor. As the previous speakers have explained, this bill ensures a long-term solution for Denmark's radioactive waste. The proposal involves upgrading the Danish Decommissioning stock facilities on Risø, and this upgrade will ensure that the storage of radioactive waste is also in safe future conditions. At the same time, the possibilities for common international solutions will still be explored, including the possibility of exporting radioactive Danish nuclear waste. In the long term, if this fails, a geological final depot will be established at the depth of 1⁄2 km on Danish soil, which can be used by 2073 at the latest. Times change, and we change with them. We are also changing technologically, but until then, and until new solutions are found, we have this agreement as a starting point and a framework for it to be done in a sound manner either by solving the problem by technological means or by exporting us out of it. A case of dealing with our radioactive waste requires us to show great thoroughness and care. And I think that we are very much in line with this proposal. I also find it gratifying that there is broad political agreement that this is the most appropriate solution for the future and for Denmark's radioactive waste. The Left, of course, supports the proposal. And I should like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur and say that they are doing the same. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104714	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104728	It is now very many years that it has been discussed what to do with this radioactive waste we have from Risø. It has been our position in the Enhedslisten from the outset that we have to deal with our hazardous waste ourselves in principle, and this also applies, of course, to this radioactive waste. It is incredibly important that we, as a resource-rich country, can lead by example and find responsible solutions for it ourselves. We have then discussed whether it should be a finished final depot, i.e. a deep geological final depot, or an intermediate depot, and there have been many different possibilities of making such a final depot. It has not been possible to find a place that was geologically suitable for it, and that is why we have been advocating from Enhedslisten for a long time that we had to create such an intermediate warehouse out at Risø and secure what is happening now against, for example. high tides, climate change that can come in the area, so we are sure that it is quite proper and safe. That is why I think it is very positive that what has been the basis for the government's proposals here is to do this middle storage solution now and work to find a safe final depot in Denmark in the long term, but it simply requires more studies. And in this way, we now need to have the intermediate storage which can operate for a longer period of time. I would also like to say that it has been very important for us to be in close dialogue with environmental organisations and other experts in this area, because it is really, really important that we take good care of this hazardous waste. I would say that it is quite clear from the Greens, i.e. environmental organisations and experts, that this is the solution that is also considered to be the safest and best possible in the situation we are in now. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party can support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323104948	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105004	Thank you. To ensure a sensible and long-term solution for Denmark approx. 10,000 m3 of radioactive waste must be in everyone's interest, and it is our task in the Folketing to help solve this problem. Ensuring a long-term solution to the storage of radioactive waste is, of course, necessary for safety reasons, but the solution must also help to ensure that the waste is treated in accordance with Denmark's international obligations regarding the management of radioactive waste. There are therefore several arguments for the wisdom of upgrading the storage facilities on the Risø Peninsula in a way such as: includes high water protection and climate management. It is also sensible to examine in the longer term the possibility of constructing a deep geological final depot for radioactive waste, a solution known from among other things. Sweden and Finland. In the Liberal Alliance, we are positive about the idea of upgrading the storage facilities on the Risø Peninsula and ensuring that a final depot can be used by 2073 at the latest. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105119	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105139	Thank you. It is our waste and it is our responsibility, and it is therefore our job to deal with it, so we have made an agreement. We want a long-term solution for Denmark's radioactive waste. And it's important to have a common plan. That is why all the parties are also represented in this agreement. Danish Dekommissionering's storage facilities at Risø are upgraded. We will ensure that the storage of radioactive waste will continue to take place in safe conditions in the future in terms of high-water protection, climate management and the increased volume of waste as the facilities on Risø are dismantled. In addition, the solution must be registered for a final depot, which is therefore a solution with a possible burial, as both we and environmental organisations have pointed out. And the final depot has to be registered because we have to have a plan, and for us, a final depot has to be seen as an emergency solution, and by that we think it would be wrong to do something premature in this area. That is why we are also pleased that the plan is based on both a short-term and a long-term dimension. We're not smart enough yet. We're not smart enough on our underground or on what the world looks like in 50-60 years. We are seeing rapid technological development, and we therefore believe that it will not be necessary to bury the waste 50-60 years. Therefore, in the alternative, we hope that in Denmark in future we will be able to participate in an international solution for radioactive waste, which ensures the least possible burden on our already included planet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105318	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105330	Yes, one can begin by welcoming the fact that the decision-makers in the Danish Parliament decided a few years ago that we should not use nuclear power in Denmark, because this is a miniature version of the problem that nuclear power causes, and that is that it leaves radioactive waste with which we have, and even to this day, difficulty finding concrete, sustainable and sustainable solutions. This is a difficult matter, and all the more reason to welcome the fact that there is broad support for this proposal in the Folketing as well. I do not think we can be extremely proud of the process that has been going on in recent years, which has created a lot of uncertainty around it, and therefore I think it is very important that there is now broad support for a long-term solution aimed at finding a real final repository and therefore not temporary solutions. It does seem to be the most responsible, because even if we do not have the problem of countries based on nuclear power, it is still only fair that the radioactive waste we have should be placed in a final repository where it is agreed that it is stored securely, responsibly and sustainably. I also think there is reason to say that it is, I think, a rather long-term project that we are embarking on here, reaching 2073. That is why I think that there is a very strong signal and a commitment for all the parties in the Danish Parliament who agree with this and it is for all of us to ensure that it is in reassuring conditions that the waste should then stay where it is and be stored where it is. I know that there is a great deal of concern about this. While observing climate change and other things that make us see more extreme weather phenomena, until 2073 it must also be a safe storage, there is, of the radioactive waste. However, we believe that this motion for a resolution lays down the necessary basis for both proper storage until a final depot is established, and therefore also a sensible and reasonable process towards a final final depot. On the other hand, I would also like to be honest and say here that we are, of course, standing by the part of the agreement that is about examining international solutions, but that our view is that it will be a little difficult to see which countries should remedy this problem for Denmark and that we must therefore be prepared to accept that this is a task that we must take on ourselves. However, should international opportunities arise, one must of course be open to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105617	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105624	Thank you. I have been told to make this speech by Mr Pia Olsen Dyhr, who is the rapporteur on radioactive nuclear waste and who has negotiated this good agreement on which there is now broad agreement. We think it is very good in the SF that we have had a united Parliament for 15 years now, which has taken responsibility for how we handle our radioactive waste. We have not always been entirely agreed on how, and there have been tough discussions, and this has also been the case in this debate, but SF believes it is important that when we send out a signal about something that can arouse many feelings in people, we send out a united political signal. That's what we think we're gonna do out there. We think it is a good idea now to upgrade the storage facilities on Risø and to ensure that they are climate-proofed and secured by high water. We would nevertheless like to say that we do not support plans for a final depot in the underground. We are well aware that this is a legal reason why you should indicate where you want to put your final depot, but I think you could have argued that our final depot should have been an extraterrestrial warehouse without an end date, i.e. an intermediate warehouse for 100 years with the possibility of extension, or another decision up to 2118. In the 1960s and 1970s we deposited chemical poisons around Denmark with or without the authorities' knowledge and permission, and this is something that we continue to struggle with today in the form of a billion bill that we still have today, and SF does not think it is wise to continue with the idea that one can dig down one's garbage if only one digs deep enough. But that is not what is decided with this resolution, because with this resolution there is a consensus on how waste is handled now, and then there are discussions in the future about what to do after that, and of course we will look forward to that. We support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105828	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Eva Flyvholm has just a brief comment to make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105832	I am just a little curious to hear the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not also believe that it is up to us as a country to deal with our hazardous waste ourselves, so that we do not risk exporting it to some places where it could cause problems for the local population if it is not properly stored.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105853	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105856	Without being absolutely clear, I believe that the SF's position is that we believe that this is primarily our responsibility. So there is both the part that is about disclaiming responsibility, that is to say that we believe that we have a responsibility ourselves, but also the realistic thing in it, because the most realistic thing is that we are going to deal with this ourselves, and that is why we are also concerned about finding a good solution, and we will have time for that now too. What we are also a little concerned about is that that solution will not affect future generations, and I understand that it is concerned that it will happen if a final depot is made in the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105933	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323105945	After all, it is becoming a habit, a good habit, to thank the rapporteurs for their support for the government's proposals. It's unusual. It is not often that we politicians have to decide on the future of Danish nuclear waste. Today, the Danish Parliament's parties are gathering together for a solution to give peace and time for proper preparation of the long-term solution for Danish nuclear waste. The facilities at Risø must be upgraded in terms of building and safety, moved up into terrain so that the radioactive waste is stored safely for an extended storage period. Since even the wisest souls cannot predict the future, it goes without saying that time can give us a new, useful knowledge. It is the government's concern that the decision be implemented with an open mind, for example. in the face of new, future technological opportunities. This is true of the result that had to arise from the long-standing collaboration of Danish Dekommissionering with leading foreign companies and operators in the field of radioactive waste treatment. This also applies to possible other options. I would call for all relevant project proposals in the field of research, development and demonstration of the new technological solutions for the management of radioactive waste to be put on the table. Like today, they can apply for funds through a so-called competitive strain. In addition, I have asked my system to consider how best and in arm's length to illuminate the potentials of new ideas that could be promising in this context. With regard to the motion for a resolution itself, the speeches today show that there is a broad consensus on creating a solid basis for further work. This will make it possible to carry out a process in which we can examine all relevant matters. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for helping to make the proposal both robust and long-lasting. The proposal makes it possible to maintain the safe management of waste on the Risø Peninsula and to support the security that Roskilde's citizens are naturally entitled to. The motion for a resolution involves new studies on geological conditions so that conditions regarding the construction of a deep geological final depot can be clarified. At the same time, we will look into the possibilities for exports. Overall, the motion for a resolution allows us to take a solution, a resolution which takes as much account as possible of local circumstances and therefore also meets the international commitments made by Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark mentioned. Public reactions indicate that there is a good basis for constructive dialogue. In such a technically complex matter, it is essential to create confidence that information on the many different subjects is based on objectiveness. An important premise is openness and effective communication, which can support the involvement of citizens and stakeholders. In line with this, cooperation under the so-called Contact Forum will be maintained and it will also be further developed. In those words, I look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110236	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110239	I would really like to thank you for your cooperation, I think, in finding this motion for a resolution. But I would like to ask the Minister: we all agree on what should happen now and here and how Risø should be upgraded, but does the Minister see it as a realistic or probable scenario that Denmark will eventually export its radioactive waste?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110310	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110311	After all, I am next to being Minister of Education and Research too, and I have learned that within the scientific community there are fantastic curly brains that can come up with anything. And if there was a situation where an installation in a country, for example. If you could turn this into a new energy, then you would, by unanimity, even think with Enhedslisten's voices, say: Let's do it • as they say in Nudansk. So, shouldn't we stick to that? And do I think we should just export our problems elsewhere? My answer is no, I do not think so. But if you can find a constructive solution, which is, if I may say so, a problem-free in the real sense of the word, then I think a united Parliament would accede to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110404	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110406	That's right. A completely seamless solution is always nice. At the same time, I think we all know very well that this is a difficult waste which must be stored very safely. And that's why we from Enhedslisten see this as a sensible way of dealing with the situation in Denmark now, and Enhedslisten has also emphasized that a long-term solution has actually been devised that allows us to deal with this problem ourselves. I also understand that the Minister shares that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110445	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110446	I just note that I am pleased that a unanimous Parliament is joining this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110452	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110506	This is the first resolution to emerge from a citizens' proposal. I would point out that as such there is no rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110543	The debate is open. Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110552	Thank you for the floor, President. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution to abolish the restriction of dual education introduced by the law of 1 January last year. The proposers in the Folketing note that this is a citizen's proposal. It cannot therefore be taken as an expression of the fact that the proposers necessarily support the substance of the proposal. The authors of the citizens' proposal justify the proposal by saying that restricting young people's ability to train is a wrong priority. I can inform you that the government's position on the law is the same as that adopted by the law. The starting point of the dual training agreement has always been twofold: firstly, in order to provide financing for the agreement on a safer benefit system, the agreement contributes 308 million. kr. In this context, it is important to ensure that young people in Denmark choose training with care, for example. Because it is tax-paid education and one of the world's highest scholarships available to young people. There are, and must remain, good opportunities for further education or for changing paths. The agreement has not changed the student's ability to change his or her studies during the course of their studies. If a student does not think that he has come on the right shelf, it is only sensible to change his studies, the sooner, the better. The agreement has not changed the possibilities of continuing training or the possibilities of training at a higher level, for example: from professional bachelor to candidate, and it does not include the possibility for professionals to seek higher education. And six years after the end of a higher education course, everyone has the opportunity to re-appear at the same or lower level. Against this background, the government rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110732	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110738	Thank you. We know each other's opinions. We have debated this many times, and I had hoped that the Minister would have made another change before we had to deal with the proposal today. Because the proposal has already been amended once, recognizing that it is not a very good proposal. For me, the educational ceiling is a limit to the ability to become wiser, to find one's place or to learn more about what one wants with one's life. And I've got a lot of stories about people inside my Facebook and also people who come to me like that and say, "I've gotten smarter since I took my bachelor." Well, they've found out they'd like to study something else. One of them, for example, had... took a candidate at sports and found out he wanted to be a school teacher. And we need good schoolteachers. Why is it wrong for a person who first takes a candidate and has become really good at, for example. sport, so later would like to start over and become a primary school teacher when Denmark lacks primary school teacher? What is it in the principle that is wrong? What is there in the action that the government thinks is so mad that it should no longer be able to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110853	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110855	We have been through this discussion several times and, as I said, the government has not changed its attitude. All the specific examples were also forthcoming at the last reading, and I have nothing new to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110906	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110907	But now that we can see that we have a number of young people, such as: would like to enter and take up the jobs that we stand and say need to be done, that is, when we are faced with some young people who would like to enter and carry out the task in some welfare areas where we can see it will be needed in the future, would that not be wise? I am not asking the government to abolish the education ceiling, because I have given up that hope for now. But could it not at least be said that the exceptions to the training ceiling are being extended, so that there are more opportunities to get through that training ceiling, if you now, for example, are going to be able to get through that training ceiling? take jobs that we know will be needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110945	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323110946	I do not recognise that this is a ceiling, because you can always move up. So I don't really understand the terminology. I mean, it's populist and wrong, and if mr. Jacob Mark has specific proposals for changes, I think he should make them. We relaxed, as the rapporteur also says, so that, if you really insist on completing an education you do not want to, you have the opportunity, after six years of using it, to take another education. I think that this relaxation is sufficient at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111019	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111022	In the past, it has been the case, for example, that we have been able to do so. as a student counselor has recommended people if they were in doubt: Finish your bachelor's degree programme, and then you have the opportunity to then like to consider which direction you want to go in, and then at least you have the one to fall back on. I actually think that makes a great deal of sense. But it's just a situation that has changed since the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party chose to adopt this educational ceiling. We can now see around that there are in fact many head of education who say that they can see a tendency for people to quit their bachelor education. You are actually afraid to finish it, because if you have a bachelor's degree, will you be prevented from choosing a new course? If, for example, you're gonna have to... have trained as an educator and would like to become a teacher since then, will you be cut off from it? Does the Minister think that it is appropriate for us to have a situation where there appear to be a number of people who do not actually finish their Bachelor's degree because they are afraid of being locked up?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111134	I can say the same thing I said to Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark: There is nothing new in the view of Mrs Flyvholm. Mine is that if people are dissatisfied with the education they go on, they should not finish it, but switch to something else. I think that is much more appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111151	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. No, it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. You gotta be nice to get in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111155	So I would like to know whether the Minister has included in the calculations that have been made it is not a great deal of money that you get into this training ceiling, what it will cost socially, that more people drop out of their education. Is this something that has been taken into account in the calculations of this training ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111221	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111222	I think the rapporteur is putting in a lot of premises that are not necessarily right. How much is it? The agreement provides 308 million. kr. I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer has been accepted by the Council of Ministers. So I don't want to throw myself into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111242	Thank you. And if you want to make another brief comment, please press it in. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111251	Yes, it is a very special day, because the first citizen's proposal is under discussion. More than 50,000 Danes have wanted us to have this debate, and I cannot help but feel that the Minister for Education is a little frantic and perhaps a little irritated about having to be bothered to debate this matter again. But I actually think that even though the Left did not seem to be strong supporters of the idea of citizens' proposals, it is both pleasing and good that we now have the opportunity to put the citizens on the agenda, if only for a moment, in the Chamber. That is why I would also like to pass on one of the issues that has been raised and which follows on from the debate just now. Because it is true, as the Minister says, that it was a financing issue that raised the ceiling on training; it was not an educational policy wish, a committee work or anything else. No, it was a financing issue. That is why my question is: why should 300 million people not be found? kr. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter. It is true that the signal to the Danes has in the meantime been that much more money could go to reduce the price of cars. You can also look into the latest financial agreement and see that the riding police have to return to the streets of Copenhagen; resources have also been found for this. I would therefore just like to ask the Minister for Education whether it was not reasonable to give an explanation to the students and the many people who have signed here why it has been decided that it is the limitation of their opportunities to finance the benefit system, while at the same time reintroducing the riding police and reducing the price of cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111430	I would like to take a competition with the Radical Left at any time about which party has abolished the most training places, for example. In relation to dimensioning, which was introduced by my former colleague, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. So if that is what we are discussing and flexibility for young people, then it is a discussion that we can take at any time. The questioner is well aware of the mechanisms in relation to how funding comes about. It happens that there is a debate and then those who sit and negotiate assess what is most appropriate in relation to the various funding proposals. I was not the Minister of Education myself, nor was I involved in negotiations on the Finance Act at that time, in other words about that part of the agreement. But that's the way it works, and that's not Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard unknown.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111525	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111526	I simply asked for recognition that if you look at the other financial arrangements of the government, it seems to be a very limited priority that has been chosen here. And I can certainly confirm from the insight I have gained that there was neither an education rapporteur nor the Minister of Education in the room when it was adopted, but it is then here that we have had to clean up and perhaps make a virtue of the necessity. That is why I also think it is extremely relevant that we have the discussion today. However, Mrs Flyvholm also referred to the fact that the Minister for Education is the first minister to have an education policy that encourages people not to complete their education. Isn't that an epoch-making shift?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111612	I strongly urge people to complete their education, but I do not call on them to complete the wrong education. On the contrary, I think it was inappropriate with the policy that has supposedly been in the past, where there was a view that people should finish an education they did not want until they could agree to someone they wanted; I have to say that. Then I think it's better that people change into something they're passionate about, have their hearts in and want to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111638	Thank you. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111642	Thank you. I'd like to talk to you about finance. One of the concerns at the training ceiling is that there are more who will choose to drop out just before they become bachelors, so as not to be affected by this limitation in relation to being able to take a new bachelor's degree. We have actually asked the Minister a question about estimates, if you look at what it will cost an average student to fall out in the fifth semester. And that's $174,000. per students at bachelor level and 227,000 DKK. per students at production bachelor level. At the same time, we from Roskilde University Centre know that they have experienced a drop-out on the fifth semester, which is twice as high in 2017, as it was in 2016. So it looks like there's a tendency for more people to fall out. If you count these numbers together and also look at the dropout in general in Denmark, it actually looks like 3 billion. kr. in round figures per year. Isn't the Minister concerned that this law, apart from the fact that it is a bad idea for the individual student to be able to choose a new education, will be really, really expensive for society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111743	I have no doubt that there will be a transition to this issue. However, I consider the problem that a great many people in general are falling away from, for example. during the first year of training, as a major problem. Because I think it is based on the fact that there is not quite enough knowledge and information about what the respective studies chosen by young people actually involve.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111806	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111809	Thank you. If these figures continue, if it turns out that the dropout is twice as high in the fifth semester or in connection with or just before the end of the bachelor's degree programme, will the Minister be open to discuss again whether it might be appropriate to look at whether we should make some changes to the training ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111828	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111829	Well, one of the reasons why I am against citizens' proposals is that it raises false hopes. Now you can also see young people leaving this Chamber depressed, because some have apparently given them the impression that because of collecting some signatures, political parties change their attitude immediately. So I'm not gonna promise anything. But I am now always approachable to common sense, and I am always accommodating to have a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111852	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111854	Thank you. In Denmark we have seen young people who know a great deal about democracy and politics and social conditions worldwide. On the other hand, they do not really translate it into political commitment and active participation. Some youths have done so here. Perhaps it is because they experience when they do not and do not participate that their opinions and their proposals are not being used for anything. After all, the left was out to shoot down the proposal before it even came to the Chamber. Don't we owe it to young people to listen to them? And do we not owe them that they have the same access to education that we who sit here in the Chamber have had?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111938	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323111939	Now I have been in politics for so long that I have learned that there is a crucial difference between listening and then doing as it is said. These are two very different things. I'm listening, but I also think it's a game for the gallery, which I'm not sure is decent for the people. But some people think so, and I respect that, of course, I just disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112004	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112006	Now the Minister says that it is game for the gallery when people are allowed to speak, people who normally have no experience of being able to speak. That is what we are talking about here. It is a question of some people, a very, very large number of people, who have had the opportunity to express an opinion, which they have not normally been listening to. I am aware that no one is saying that because it comes in the Chamber, it has to be voted for. But is this a game for the gallery?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112038	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112040	Mrs Pernille Schnoor is very sorry, but in fact I have also noted that a great many of the people who are currently speaking spoke when we dealt with it last time and last time. So I think it's a very misrepresented description of the reality, at least as I've experienced it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112104	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners, and then we go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112122	The proposal we are discussing here today concerns, as I said, the agreement on the limitation of dual education concluded between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. In the social democracy we stand by the agreements we make. This is, of course, also the case. And before I go into the background to that, I would also like to say that we cannot support the motion for a resolution. In order to understand the background, we need to return to the unemployment benefit reform of 2010. It is an agreement that was concluded between the then VK government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. The 2010 reform meant that tens of thousands of Danish employees lost their benefit rights. They fell out of the system and lost their support. This was a serious situation that we had to address. We have not been able to watch, while so many Danish people lost their daily allowance due to the 2010 reform, and therefore we concluded a new daily allowance agreement in 2015 together with the government and the Danish People's Party, where we corrected the imbalances and secured a safer daily allowance system. The agreement behind the new benefit system means that fewer people fall out of the benefit system, not least unskilled people. I would like to support that solidarity at all times. The background is important, because it is the starting point of the agreement on the reduction of double training that we secured the financing of a safer benefit system where fewer people fall out and lose their dependants. The agreement on the limitation of dual education means that, for a limited period of time, a new higher education cannot be started at the same or lower level as the education that you already have. Basically, I think it is both right and proper that, the day after you finish the first education paid by the community, you cannot start a corresponding training. Therefore, the restriction. This does not mean that there should be no room to be smarter along the way and, incidentally, also learn much more later in life, quite the contrary. As was the case before we concluded the agreement, that is still the case today. If you regret your education on the way, you are free to change to someone else. It's still going to go away. And if you want to train to a higher level, you can do it freely. That is still true. If you are worn out or have an outmoded education, you are free to go on training. This is still true, just as opportunities in the continuing training system remain unchanged. The agreement does not affect those who have or want vocational training either, but that limits are now placed on the fact that, on the day following the completion of the initial training, a new one can begin, I think, quite reasonable. You may need to change tracks. I totally agree with that. This is quite understandable, and especially when you are looking into a future as changing as the one we have at the moment. This is, of course, relevant, and there is also the possibility of changing tracks. That is why we also listened to the criticism and adjusted the agreement a little more than a year ago. Thus, you can now train regardless of level, when you have been using your education for six years. For social democracy is free and equal access to education is a cornerstone of our society. It's always been, and it's still gone, and that doesn't change the deal a millimetre by. Education is as free to choose as it has been up to now. The ability to learn more while reading is also unchanged, just as I have said, you can change paths 6 years after you have finished your education and have tried to do so in the labour market. So the agreement on the reduction of double training is primarily about ensuring a safer benefit system, where fewer people lose their right to benefit and thus we also have a better basis for the most vulnerable people in the labour market. The Social Democratic Party will always be in line for this, and the situation of all those who lose their benefit rights as a result of the old unemployment benefit reform should, in fact, still be a very central part of this discussion. On the part of the Social Democrats, as I said, we are on the goal of the agreement. We have ensured better conditions for the most vulnerable in the labour market and, on the basis of what I said at the outset, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112524	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments and it seems that it will be ongoing during this debate, so I must insist that you keep to the speaking time and that you press in if you want a second round. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112539	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech, which, although I do not entirely agree with it, was something more political than the Minister's. I think there was a respect for that, that yes, we are taking the debate again, because there are 50 000 people who have signed that we are doing it, and we must respect that. I do not think it is quite right when the rapporteur makes it sound as if this is just about some young people who then take a bachelor's degree and the next day they want to choose something else. It's not just the ones you hit. We are also talking about young people taking a bachelor's degree, they may even have been told that this is the way they should go, then a few years go by, where they are out and spend it or they are out travelling, there is at least some time going, and then they think: that's not exactly what I was supposed to do, I have something else to do with my life, I've found out that I'm better at something else. There may be years, up to 6 years, and it is many years of your life that you can walk there. It is just to say that I think it is important to say honestly what this proposal means, and I think it means pushing young people. Now the Social Democrat President said that young people are under pressure, and does the rapporteur think that this is helping to push young people more or less in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112649	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112651	We in the Social Democratic Party are very aware of the pressure that is being felt by many of the students, both those who are in the system and those who are expected to enter the education system, and we take this very seriously, and that is why we are currently looking at how we might extend the legal requirement so that we can go out and work between a bachelor and a master's degree. The Committee for Quality and Relevance in Higher Education is among other things: I know that this is not what we are discussing today, but we look forward to being invited to discuss and hopefully with a number of parties, all parties, in the Folketing. With regard to whether this is pushing, I would say that in the debate, when it was taken almost a year and a half ago, we said that we want to strengthen guidance as well. And when it comes to the bill, it is a premise that should be taken into account as a student when seeking guidance in relation to what it is that one would like to read. If you get into doubt along the way, if you, like Mr. Jacob Mark says is out to feel the world, I would say that doubt can actually be and is many times a gift. It's okay. to doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112807	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112808	My impression now is that the guidance has not been strengthened. On the contrary, the large savings have led to a reduction in guidance, and no matter how much guidance some young people who have taken a bachelor will simply say: No, you have to wait 6 years, because that is the rule that a majority in the Folketing has made. Well, that doesn't change the instructions. I know this is not going to change before an election, and as I do in many other respects, I am going to think about the time after an election when, hopefully, there is another majority. Will the Social Democrats feel obliged by such an agreement after an election if there is a new red majority, or will they be prepared, if new funding is found, to abolish the education ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112847	I would like to say that I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Jacob Mark, when he says that there is still room for improvement in our guidance system. I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Jacob Mark i, just as I agree with the reference to the lack of funding. I am also opposed to the savings that have been made in the field of education, which have just contributed to less guidance. Nevertheless, it is where the guidance should be, before you choose your education and probably also along the way, if you are in doubt. Having said that, I would like to say that the fair thing in this is that, after you have taken an education, you do not get into a situation where you simply want to take another education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112926	Yes, please. Speaking time also applies to the rapporteur on the platform. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323112937	I know Mrs Mette Reissmann as an educational person who is deeply concerned about what education offers of opportunities. After all, people with that interest were very far away from the negotiations that led us to have the education ceiling, because it was only something that was invented to finance an agreement, as the rapporteur also mentioned in his speech. That is why I am also surprised that, instead of standing by it, we have tried to make it a good education policy, and I think that many people find it difficult to understand that it should be. Now we are standing here it is spring, and soon it will be exam time again in Denmark and there may well be some who go and are finishing their bachelor's degree, but perhaps consider whether they should choose a different direction. I would like to know whether it is the case that Mrs Mette Reissmann says as Minister for Education today that it is therefore better, if one is unanswered and in doubt, to sign up from now on than to go through this semester and finish his bachelor's degree programme and at least have it. There, the Social Democrats take part in the same call made by the Minister of Education, which is that it is better that we now and here come out completely rather than taking our exams this summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113057	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Morten Østergaard's description of me as an educational person is absolutely correct, because I am. At the same time, however, I am also a responsible person, and I am also a member of a party which stands by the agreements it makes. In relation to whether or not to complete the full examination and thus hold a diploma in hand, if in doubt, I would say, as I said to Mr. Jacob Mark: Doubt is a gift of mercy. And you can doubt it many times along the way, and I am quite convinced that Mr. Morten Østergaard has done while he was reading; it took a number of years, as I remember it. This does not change the fact that one can of course doubt whether this is the right study, and then one should consider whether to go up to it and, if so, to continue before taking the final examination. Many times things are going to develop in a way that actually makes you really happy with the study from which you are graduated and can also work. And that is why we have the possibility that, after the end of the 6th year, if it really is terrible, we can start a new education at the same or higher level.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113207	There are a number of brief comments so that there will be ample opportunity to unfold its knowledge. Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113211	However, that was a strange answer, because far along the way it was a support for the Minister of Education's call to drop the study rather than to finish her bachelor's degree, but then it ended up with Mrs Mette Reissmann saying that perhaps it was better to let the doubt come to the benefit of the study and then looked and saw if that was the way to go. I think that the young people are left just like the rest of us after Mrs Mette Reissmann's reply, with a completely unclear message from the majority about the way in which it is actually called for to go. But let me conclude by asking: is the Social Democrats bound to this agreement also after a parliamentary election, or would we be able to drop the ceiling by means of alternative funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113256	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Morten Østergaard points to alternative funding. Now, as you know, it is the Radicals who are partly responsible for the fact that we have had to spend the money on, among other things. to patch gaps in the benefit system that the Radical Left has helped to destroy. I would just like to say that if it were the case that the Radical Left believes that money should be taken from alternative places, then perhaps one might have thought about it when one was negotiating a billion for a business and growth package, instead of spending the money from there to now give tax relief to stockholders and tax reliefs on unhealthy foods. Perhaps it would have been worth considering if it were the case that we are so inclined to find alternative funding channels.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113330	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113336	I would like to dwell a little on the latter, because I think it is absolutely crucial in this case that it seems that the agreement on this educational ceiling has been made, to say the least, on an ill-considered basis and that we are in a situation where a lot of people are at risk of being locked up in a place where they do not have the opportunity to take the training they want, and I think that flexibility is very, very important. So does it not make an impression on the Social Democrats that there is a great deal of evidence that this is going to cause us great problems? Could one not be willing to look at whether we could change this piece of legislation in my view? Unfortunately, very ill-thought-out legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113421	I recognise that Enhedslisten does not agree with the parties to the agreement behind this agreement, but I simply do not agree with Mrs Flyvholm when she, among other things, comes out. believes that this means that there are many people who do not get the training they want. In other words, there is still free and equal access to the education system in Denmark, and we have among other things. listening to the inappropriateness and protests that followed the conclusion of the agreement, and thus we also adjusted the agreement in January 2017, where we made it possible that after 6 years, we have the opportunity to take another education that is funded by taxpayers. I think that is actually fair. The fact that you cannot do it the day after you stand with your diploma in hand, I actually think it is fair. There are a number of exceptions, including: If you are worn out or you have an out-of-date training or you wish to apply to one of the courses on the positive list of the Ministry, you can do so. So there are plenty of opportunities for you to continue to have both a rich and valuable educational life ahead of you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113518	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113520	After all, it's completely indisputable that this puts up some barriers to what education people can take. That is the whole point of the proposal. I think that is a very wrong direction to take. But I would like to hear the rapporteur's attitude to the pattern we are beginning to see now, that is, that people actually drop out before finishing their bachelor's degree. Is that something that concerns the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113543	I think it is rather surprising that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in this area does not also see the need to stop gaps in the benefit system. I had the impression that Enhedslisten was of course interested in helping too, so that we could save people from falling out of the benefit system which was pierced and thus losing their basis. This is, in fact, the reason for this training agreement on the limitation of dual education; it is not to prevent young people from getting an education. There is still free and equal access to an education in Denmark, well to notice at very high level. As far as apostasy is concerned, I am always concerned about apostasy, and I firmly believe that we should work together to identify what the underlying cause of apostasy is. It has not yet been documented that it is one-sided because of this doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113628	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113631	Thank you. I would like to ask a very specific question and I would like to ask a very specific answer: if, after a parliamentary election, we have a Social Democratic government and can find a majority for alternative funding of the unemployment benefit reform, will the Social Democrats be prepared to abolish the education ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113654	We think it is reasonable that there is a limit to the number of courses at the same or lower level. That is why we have put in some restrictions, and we think it is reasonable, considering that there is still a great deal of scope for the education that we want. Moreover, it is also possible for a lifetime to maintain a flexible educational orientation for the benefit of both oneself and society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113720	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113722	I'll take that as a no. But it may turn out that the educational ceiling will be a very high cost to Denmark's economy. As I said to the Minister, I have calculated a little, and if it continues in the way it seems right now, on the basis of the figures from the Roskilde University Centre, where twice as many people fall out in the fifth semester it costs approx. $200,000. per students who fall out, who do not get a bachelor's degree, then it will be really, really expensive and will cost up to 3 billion. kr. If that turns out to be the consequences, will the Social Democrats be prepared to look at it again, in relation to whether it might have been a wrong decision in such purely economic terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113805	We are always concerned about the apostasy that is among students, and therefore we would also like to look at how we can strengthen the guidance before entering higher education so that we may be able to reduce apostasy in that way. There are plenty of things that are • if you can say that competing causes of damage, when we have the increasing apostasy, which is even greater in some studies rather than others, and we find it deeply worrying. Yes, economically speaking, it is a problem, but whether or not the causal link is one-sidedly linked to the fact that there is a situation like this where there is a limitation of dual education, I simply do not find it documented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113837	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113839	Thank you. The rapporteur has also spoken in a previous rapporteur's speech today about how important education is for growth and for society and how important it is for us to have free and equal access. I hear the rapporteur here both speaking in favour of this educational ceiling, but also saying that this is due to something economical and how to find some money. I would like to hear: do we not owe the young people who are sitting here and the young people who are in the country that they have the same conditions as we ourselves, all of us who are sitting in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323113916	Mrs Pernille Schnoor asks whether they should not have the same conditions as we had. They have. The thing is, we also have a responsibility as politicians. We have ten times as many students improvised among our higher education students today as we had when Mrs Pernille Schnoor and I read, and that puts pressure on the economy. It would be irresponsible not to take a total view when it comes to discussing the education economy. I have a challenge to face, among other things. a future debate on the SU, for example, and there is a corresponding pressure on whether we should not just continue. I think we should, but in this particular case or in this situation it is not just the economy, it is as much reasonable as I have said in my answer to a question raised earlier today, which I think we should look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114010	Yeah. It is helpful if you just press in if you want to speak again. Thanks for your help. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114014	Thank you. I once saw a sign at a store saying: closed because of success. I hear it somewhat so that the rapporteur says that we have ten times as many as in the past, and that is why we have to do this. Well, that's what we wanted, too. We wanted a great many young people to be educated and educated. Now it has been discussed in the Chamber before, as the Minister also stressed, but has the Social Democrats and the rapporteur moved forward after we have had all the statements here, including those that are the background to the proposal today, and that 50 per cent. In fact, the people want us not to have a ceiling on education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114056	No, it's hardly 50 percent now. of the population, but apart from that, I would like to say that I always listen to all those who address me and to the social democracy with issues. I have done the same in this context. I regularly have a dialogue with the concrete proposers behind the citizens' proposal itself. So there's free access. I think it should be borne in mind that 50 000 signatures do not approve anything, but only 90 mandates do. Politically speaking, we have not moved into the Social Democratic Party. And with regard to citizens' proposals as such, I find it worrying that many citizens seem to think that they cannot enter into dialogue with a politician if they have a case on their heart and would like to have lifted it up. You can. You can write, you can call, you can even come get coffee. The minister has also invited us to coffee today if there is something that needs to be discussed. I do the same, and I know that those who are present in the gallery are often for coffee with me, where we have a debate on the concrete and present draft law. So it is not because it is not possible to have it raised, you do not have to collect 50,000 signatures.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114158	Thank you to Mrs Mette Reissmann. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114211	Thank you. Here we have a motion for a resolution calling for us to reverse a decision which we took for about three years. One year ago, on double education. When we have to deal with this today, it is about the fact that we have adopted a law on citizens' proposals, which gives citizens the right to make proposals, and if 50,000 citizens sign it, we must treat it as a resolution in this Chamber and that is what we are doing now. The current proposal was discussed very and long before we adopted it by the end of 2016. We adjusted it in January 2017, when the possibility of a new education was introduced after 6 years. During the whole process of adoption one year ago, we discussed the proposal thoroughly. I've got one of them. in my office a stack of 70,000 signatures that came in at the time. We listened, we assessed, and we made the adjustments that we thought were reasonable. So at the time we ended up with one for the Danish People's Party and me seeing a fair solution, which is why I have to be honest here today and say that I think it still is. There are still a great many opportunities for education and continuing training. In connection with the agreement last year, we have set in motion work to meet some of the needs that came in as comments. It was argued that, for example, there was an increase in the number of young people in the Community. in connection with the designer and architect training had a tendency to take a double training because there might be some need to combine those competences. A work has been set in motion to find out how to make courses that meet those needs. In future we will also be discussing new forms of education in the wake of the recommendations for university education in the future that we have just received a few days ago. There will continue to be plenty of opportunities for continuing training and we will continue to work to ensure the breadth and relevance of training. Among other things: We in the Danish People's Party believe that we need to look to a much greater extent at how to create lifelong learning, how to ensure that we can get an education across a working life that is, after all, longer and longer. This does not mean, however, that more training should be possible at the same level in addition to each other. So we in the Danish People's Party today, as a year ago, cannot support the resolution we are debating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114445	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114451	I think that when we come around as educational rapporteurs in various debates and talk to experts and such things, one of the things we very often hear is that our labour market needs flexibility to such an extent because it changes all the time. And that is exactly what our education system must also be able to support. Frankly, I would like to hear from the rapporteur how the Danish People's Party views the fact that we are actually helping to cut off exactly the flexibility that is so much needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114533	Well, I do not agree with the premise that we are cutting off that flexibility. Among other things: We discuss the legal requirement and extension of it to provide an opportunity for you to go out with an education, get into the labour market and then get in afterwards and get some further training. I certainly believe that we must work very hard to ensure that we can create the training that needs to be provided in relation to the needs that exist. But that does not mean, for me, that one education can be taken immediately after another education, that is, that it should help to meet that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114609	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114611	After all, we can see and hear what the students say, that it is simply that sometimes you come out, work a few years and can see that you haven't hit quite right, and that is why you want to go back and take another education, or that you simply need to supplement your education with an extra one. It is clear that it is a barrier that you cannot do so. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there are simply some people here who are not given the opportunity to expand their professional profile or take that re-election?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114644	No, I don't. On the one hand, we adjusted the rules last year so that, after six years, we can actually take a completely new course of training, and, on the other hand, I think it is important that we ensure that there is the continuing training which might be relevant and which we need. We must work to develop this and it must be available in every way. There, too, I believe there are a great many opportunities today, and many more are allowed to come. But I do not see that as a solution in relation to the resolution we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114712	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114715	Thank you. After all, the Danish People's Party was one of the parties behind the whole citizens' proposal scheme, and I am very happy about that, otherwise it would not have been possible. This is the Danish history's first citizen's proposal, and I think that we all, who are behind this scheme, were a little surprised at how quickly we actually managed to collect these 50,000 signatures. To me, it shows that it's something that means a lot to people. In addition, there is also a study which I believe the rapporteur has also received from YouGov, which shows that only a quarter of the Danish population supports the education ceiling or the limitation of dual education. So now I just want to hear the rapporteur when the rapporteur himself is in favour of the citizens' proposal system: what does the rapporteur really think about so many people signing this proposal and so many people disagree with it? Does that make the rapporteur think that this should be changed at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114814	Not necessarily. That, of course, gives us reason to reflect on what it is, but on the other hand, I would say that a year ago I had 70,000 signatures, which of course also means that we have a discussion. I would say that the most important thing in this has been dialogue with the various parties on a regular basis. It is also those who write, and those with whom you are in contact, in relation to what the challenges are here. But I have to say that I am also a little surprised that this has to be so much of an educational system, which in so many other ways also means that you cannot take exactly the training you want. I do not know whether those who are against, or those who want us to adopt this resolution, believe that we should then have open access so that everyone could take exactly the training they wanted when they wanted to, and as many times as they wanted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114908	In fact, I believe that there must be free access to education and to become wiser. Then, on the other hand, we have regulated how many years you can get support, i.e. how many years the state has to pay SU, and I think that in itself has such a natural regulatory effect on how many times people will take an education, because there are simply limits to how long people can afford to be on an education if they do not get SU. I would like to know whether the rapporteur could, at some point, be involved in loosening up the legislative proposal, either by opening up more gaps, more derogations, or by saying that it should not be six years to wait, but fewer years. Will you be ready in the Danish People's Party to take that discussion at some point if you find alternative funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323114953	No, I really don't think we should relax this. I must be quite, quite honest and say that when we had this discussion a year ago, and I can say that in this little closed circle, I did not actually know and it was mentioned earlier that we all had those opportunities. I didn't know I had that opportunity when I was reading at the time. I went to college, too. I would say that I was deeply surprised that this was indeed an opportunity and, if I had known, I could have suggested that we might have abolished it and used the resources to ensure more quality in education and perhaps also to ensure better opportunities for continuing training. Because I think that is what is needed rather than ensuring that more education can be taken immediately after each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115033	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115035	I also have to express some surprise at the fact that what was, after all, a funding proposal devised by people who are not dealing with education policy on a daily basis is now also being elevated by the Danish People's Party to being really good education policy. I simply do not understand it being said, rather than being honest, that it was a way of finding some money that you were missing for an agreement. Afterwards, the Danish People's Party has found money for lots of things, for example. the riding police return to the streets of Copenhagen. It's not like you can't find money if you want to. But you have not wanted to give these opportunities to young people by dropping the ceiling on education. Of course, I shall mourn that, because we are against the ceiling. But I'd like to ask you something. I also have a university degree, but I do not think that it is finer than other education. But it is the case that if you take a professional bachelor's degree, you are free to go on to a Master's degree programme, but if you want as a nurse to become a school teacher or whatever it may be, the idea is to limit it. There I just ask: if you want to move on from the professional bachelor's degree, why is it so finer to go further at university than to take another professional education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115151	Basically, it is not about anything being finer. Being able to train further and at a higher level can make a great deal of sense and also take in-service training that is relevant. However, once you have received an education paid by society, with what we have adopted now, you have to use it for six years before you can get a new one, I do not think there is anything unreasonable in it. In fact, I think that is good and common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115217	It then leads to what is today's theme. Now we have heard the Minister of Education call for a drop out of education, and we have heard it from the Social Democrat rapporteur. Now I would like to know whether that is also the view of the Danish People's Party. Is the message and the call also from the Danish People's Party to a teacher student who might consider that the future might still be as a nurse, and who is approaching the last exam this summer, that if you do not want to be limited to waiting for 6 years for it, then you should not complete the programme, but fall off and become part of the dropout statistics? I have to say that I am astonished that such a massive majority in the Danish Parliament seems to now have a policy that should aim to ensure that people do not finish their education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115309	My clear call must be to give it careful consideration before starting an education. The moment you find out that you have started an education that does not suit you, you have to switch to the education where you actually want to be and where you belong. Then I can say that we will support the creation of better guidance, that we will be much better at it. We also have an ongoing discussion on how to ensure a better take-up so that young people actually get into the training courses they are suitable for and want to be on. That seems to me to be a much more important effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115344	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115346	Thank you. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. In an answer to one of the other rapporteurs, the rapporteur made it sound as if it were a little utopian and spoiled and a little gluttonous if you are to have more education than one you have. But that was the way it was before you wanted to find some money for a completely different area you wanted to finance. I would like to know whether the rapporteur recognises that a great many young people are actually under pressure from this right now, in other words that it can put pressure on some young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115423	I am not going to be able to comment on how many people knew about this possibility and had thought about using it. I am well aware that, in this transition, there are of course some who are caught up because there were plans which cannot now necessarily be put into effect, and it came naturally from the fact that this comes out of a desire to find financial resources for something else. But basically I stand by what I also mentioned just now, namely that if I had been aware that this was to the extent and with the resources that are now emerging, I might actually have come up with proposals to remove this opportunity to use it to strengthen, it could be guidance, it could be continuing training opportunities, and it could be so many other things in the education system that I think there is much more need for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115513	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115517	Thank you. After all, we have a society now where we find that a lot of young people feel stressed and stressed and have to make a lot of choices, so the question was whether the rapporteur acknowledges this about the fact that the table catches a table prisoner policy, you can say, because now an education has been chosen, and then you just have to finish it, and then you can wait a lot of years if there is another training you want and that it can help to stress and push some young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115549	I understand that there is a great deal of pressure and that many young people are experiencing enormous pressure today for them to choose. But on the other hand, I still think it's strange that you go on an education for 2-3 years before you realize that it wasn't exactly there you should have been. So I would much rather call for a lot more to be done in terms of getting into the right education and getting the right education in advance and then changing when you discover that it is not there you want to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115617	With that, we thank Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party, and we proceed in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115636	Thank you for the floor. As the previous rapporteurs have also commented on, this is a special proposal that we are debating today. It is an historic day, because it is the first citizen's proposal. Nor is it a secret that it is not a flower that has grown in the gardens of the Left and, as we have also argued in the past, it has always left all members of parliament free to take up a proposal in the Folketing, whether they have signed up with proposers or have submitted statements of support from one or tens of thousands of citizens. But that does not, of course, change the fact that we respect the new system and are happy to take up today's debate on the first citizen-driven proposal. Of course, it may seem a little special to have to repeat a lot of what has been said when it was last discussed here. And I can therefore already disappoint the many signatories to the proposal that we in the Left have not changed our position on dual education since it was last discussed in this Chamber. Politics, as you know, is a long exercise in how we wisely manage taxpayers' money, and in this light we do not think it makes sense to be able to take two tax-paid courses at the same level immediately following each other. The system, as it is today, already offers a great deal of flexibility. For example, if you are ill or worn out in your job, or if the training cannot be used in the labour market, you can continue to take a new education. And that is also the case if you choose an education in which companies are particularly in need of labour. In addition, we have introduced the possibility of taking a new higher education course at the same or lower level after six years after the end of higher education. I think it is fair that we are actually trying to work in the field for which we have been trained, especially considering that we have received tax-financed training. The agreement on the reduction of dual education means that we can instead spend the money on a safer benefit system, and at the same time we can also strengthen the quality of higher education. I note that the savings in the comments on the bill are referred to as a small short-term saving, and to that I have to say that I think there are some benefit recipients who will very much disagree with that position. Young people are not locked by a lack of dual education. The scheme reflects the fact that we manage taxpayers' money with respect and care, but we do not in any way violate the principle of free and equal access to education in Denmark. Everyone has the possibility of attending a fully state-funded higher education course. And anyone with a desire and qualifications can train to a higher level. Against this background, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115943	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard is in the process of finding his place now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323115951	I have full respect for the fact that sir... Mads Fuglede was not part of the Folketing when this was introduced here. But at that time Mr. Nevertheless, Mads Fuglede is an active part of the world we are talking about, namely the education world, and therefore I am interested in the warm support that is not so much a priority, because it is true that politics is a priority, and here we disagree, just as we disagree, when the government runs the green harvester over all youth education and all higher education years after year. It is a priority that you think it is more important for Denmark's future that the cars are a little cheaper or that the riding police come back. It is, of course, an active choice, and the Left and the Radical Left disagree on that choice. But I would still like to ask: is it really the perception of a person who has rounded up the education sector that it is important to tell people that it is better that in May you jump from your almost finished bachelor's degree programme than that you finish it if you have any thought about whether you have gotten on the right shelf?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120058	That is my personal opinion, but also my party's view, and that is why I speak with the great support of my own group when I say that when you take an education and sense that you are doing something wrong, you must of course switch to something you would rather train yourself to. This brings the best results, both as an individual and as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120121	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120123	Well, then there's nothing else to do but take off on the hat, because that's how it goes, so the apostasy increases as a result of this. The signals that come back are that it has exactly the effect that people fall off instead of completing bachelor programmes. It is just a little, you might say, epoch-making that you are pursuing an education policy aimed at getting people to drop out of their education. But, of course, it's a choice you can make. I would just like to conclude by saying that it is the view of the Left today that even if you had not needed 300 million. kr. To finance an allowance agreement, one would have introduced the training ceiling with the limitations it provides, with the reactions it gives, with the drop-out that it gives it would have been done deliberately, because one thinks it is simply spitzen-class education policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120213	Now it is always difficult to discuss hypothetical issues, but if we imagined that 308 million would be made available. kr. in this area, I would personally use them to raise the quality of education rather than to change this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120231	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120234	A little further to the previous question, I would like to hear: does the rapporteur think that it is likely that it will increase the quality of the labour we get out, that people are being cut off from the possibility of, for example, to take two supplementary courses? And does the rapporteur think it is likely that this training ceiling will have no negative effect on the dropout? Indeed, I am very concerned that more people will drop out of their education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120314	I believe that with this we are sending out a clear signal that we need to be very careful, both the guidance given to young people and the choice we make ourselves before starting our education. And I hope that this leads to the way I see it today, too, that one is very careful in one's choice of study, so that one has the best opportunity afterwards to live out one's dream of becoming an active and valuable citizen of society, that is to say, where one has an education appropriate to the qualifications one has and can fit into the labour market afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120349	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120353	So I have to say that it often happens that people get experience in the course of their lives, which means that they have to change direction a little bit. I think that people are being cut off from this, and that is why I think the rapporteur owes an answer to whether he believes that we will have a more skilled workforce in this way. The second thing I think is also very important is: does the rapporteur believe that this proposal will mean that more people drop out yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120421	The fact that one can change one's attitude to what one should do after finishing education, I recognise that one can feel that way. And that is why I think it is very good that in a society that has the highest paid fellows in the world and a very fine education system, after 6 years, you can choose to take a new education if you have to change your mind about what you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120447	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120448	Thank you. I would just like to hear the argument in a given situation. I imagine that there is a person, a young person, who has studied a Master's degree in some university, and she or he has then found out that in this way one would rather be a teacher or a teacher or a nurse. They have simply been out trying a temporary job or a job that they have had for a shorter period and found out that this is what they are going to do with their lives. It's only been two years since they graduated. Now they meet Mr. Mads Birded and says to Mr. Mads Birded: I know what I want now. Now I want to be a teacher or a teacher or a nurse, but I have taken another education, and it is four years before I can break the education ceiling. I'd like to hear what Mads Birds are saying to them. What's the sense in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120546	In other words, this is again a hypothetical problem, where I just have to say to the person in the situation that he should be happy to live in a society that offers the opportunity to receive tax-financed training. After you have one, you even have the opportunity after 6 years to take a completely new one. There's not really anywhere else you can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120611	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120613	One can have the approach to politics that one would like to compare with the others and then race towards the bottom, or that one would compare with the others and say that we are well in Denmark and that we should do even better. If, at a time when we can see that we lack skilled teachers they leave primary school or at a time when we are going to need nurses, for example. Is a person who wants to be a teacher and who is quite clear, and is even trained and fully ready to go into the education he or she is dreaming of, but has to wait four years, does the rapporteur not think that it is a waste of his or her time, but also of society's time, that he or she should wait four years?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120650	Now it is the case that the agreement adopted following the adjustment that was made already offers the flexibility that, if we are in the situation that we are lacking in labour in this area, a possibility has been opened for a new education to begin within six years. So in the thought situation, as I hear the question, it would be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120711	With that, we thank the rapporteur of the Left. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323120731	This proposal, which we are discussing today, brought together 50,000 signatures in just 2 weeks, and that is why we can now deal with Denmark's first citizens' proposal. That's insanely nice, I think. It really shows us how many people, especially in the student and student elections, have fought to remove this educational ceiling, and I would like to thank you in particular for allowing us to have this very, very important discussion in the Danish Parliament on the educational ceiling again. For the training ceiling is so suitable for additional treatment. Both before, during and after the proposal on the education ceiling was adopted, it has received massive criticism and there has been a very, very thorough media coverage of the many problems that would arise as a result of this proposal. It is also clear that the extent of the problems has also reached the ordinary Dane. It is well known that it is wrong with this educational ceiling, and we can now see that the student and student movement has made a study which in fact shows that only approx. 20% of the Danes think that there is any point in this with the educational ceiling. This means that there is a very, very large group of Danes who do not think this makes any sense. I have to say that according to the process of the educational ceiling, it seems that it was simply something that was slammed together over in the Ministry of Finance in a rather too hasty and ill-considered manner of types such as Henrik Sass Larsen and Claus Hjort Frederiksen. And that is not to say anything bad about them, but I have to say that it is not my impression that education policy is their specialty, and so this proposal on the training ceiling bears such a mark. That is why I had also hoped, in these particular cases, that today's debate would also contain a little more openness in relation to some of the very, very central problems with the education ceiling and that we could actually have a discussion on whether it was not worth thinking about a second time and dropping this law once and for all. It is not, of course, what to say, because we in the Enhedslisten have no sympathy for it. I am extremely sympathetic to the fact that some money is being found for the benefit recipients, which I think is very important, and I have to say that the solution found at the time was not sufficient at all. But even if you are sympathetic to the purpose of finding some money for the benefit recipients, this is simply not a proper way of making policy, i.e. to introduce a law which causes such extreme problems for other groups in society as the educational ceiling gives. In other words, in some cases it prevents young people from getting the education they have dreamed of, it cuts off the possibility that young people who have made the wrong decision about their education can choose whether, and frankly, anyone can do so, because they are learning from something that they are studying along the way, and that is what the point is. Moreover, there can be plenty of cases where people consider that two courses can actually strengthen their professional profile. In connection with this discussion, I cannot help thinking that, just around the time when the ceiling for education was adopted, we were looking at such a new institute of quantum physics with the Education Committee, and there was such an American top researcher as was very much appreciated in Denmark. He said as he did to us: I do not really understand what is in Denmark because you want to force 15-year-olds to get on an educational path completely, nobody can. And if that was the way to do it, then no one ever really liked quantum physics, because it's actually something that people like to sniff out a little along the way to discover how exciting it is to get into. I think it is completely wrong to have, that is to say, to want to cut people off from opportunities to force them to take some opt-outs. It is simply not appropriate for us as a society either. One of the very, very common combinations is e.g. the teacher who finds that he would like to continue training as a social worker, and these are two courses at the same level. It makes really, really good sense that you can have both the professional profiles if you e.g.. needs to work with vulnerable children and young people. I think that is very, very meaningful and also constructive for society. So quite frankly, there are just so many problems in this, and I had perhaps such a little humorous actually brought with me a really good bottle of port wine that I intended to distribute to the party that first came on better thoughts and would help admit that one had made a mistake so that one could drop the educational ceiling. But as things stand now, I can see that with it I am putting a very, very great pressure on the Liberal Alliance, which makes them those who hopefully like both freedom and port wine. But frankly, I just think that this case deserves so much more thought than the one it has been given, and I think we need to drop the ceiling on education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121314	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Henrik Dahl, who has just been offered port wine, yet: Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121323	I'm not much of a porter myself, so I have to say no to the offer. I might as well be honest when I stand here on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and say that I myself have two master's degrees, and that is the type of dual education that the so-called training ceiling does not allow if I had taken both the courses on the account of the Danish State, which I do not then have. So I am putting myself in a somewhat double standard position if I so in principle and absolutely linger for the idea that dual education is in any case a bad idea. The proposal here, as several speakers have said, is the first citizen's proposal, but although it is, and it is of course democratically interesting and something we have to take note of, it does not change the substance of the very thorough examination of the matter that we have already had. That is why I might as well say right away that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal. It is important that everyone can get an education. This is important for society, which needs skilled labour, and of course it is also important for the individual who would like to end up on the right shelf. It is therefore the case that one can always train oneself upwards, so to speak, in the education system, one can train oneself sideways to stay in the spacious metaphors after a break of 6 years, and one can also take a double training in a wide range of specific circumstances if the circumstances here are fulfilled. Because one can train so freely and so much, I cannot say quite free from the feeling that the very violent outrage at the falsely described educational ceiling, which the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative repeatedly express, is a kind of political hypocondri, in other words a kind of imaginary political illness, where there is really no problem, but of course some sense of discomfort. As one can hear from the rain of questions that have fallen on the previous rapporteurs, the vast majority of the objections that are raised are very much sought and reflect, first and foremost, a touching concern for young people, who probably in most cases have what I would call a rather frivolous practice of study. However, as I said, we are not voting for the proposal and, if anyone wishes, I am of course looking forward to answering the same ten questions that were put to all the other rapporteurs who are against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121623	Thank you to the rapporteur. That is within the reach of the possibilities, because Mrs Flyvholm has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121627	First of all, I am disappointed that the rapporteur will not accept the port wine. I have to see if I can allocate it to the proposers instead, because I think. They've got more on the long end here. In fact, I am a little surprised that a party such as the Liberal Alliance, which places so much emphasis on the individual's free choice and ability to make decisions about his own life, leaves it up to the state in that way to make itself a judge or guardian of what types of education he may take at what times. Is it not basically contrary to the confidence that the individual can make the decisions that make the most sense for him?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121722	As I began by saying, I myself do have two master's degrees, and in many ways I am incredibly happy about that. What we have a problem with is that we want taxpayers to pay two courses. This is not a sensible use of the state's scarce resources. If one could imagine that one could pay oneself to take an education, as I did when I was studying in the United States, then I think it is excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121751	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121753	Now there is a lot of evidence that a lot of people are going to drop out before they have completed their bachelor's education, as a result of this, and it is also very doubtful how much money this so-called training ceiling is going to generate at all. So if it turns out that this is actually socio-economically the shitty business that I think it is, will the rapporteur reconsider whether we should withdraw the support for the proposal and actually help to abolish this ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121826	I would like to see a closer analysis of the causes of apostasy, but it seems to me immediately that this is at all an incredibly irresponsible way of going to study. And how much benefit society has from irresponsible people, I shouldn't be able to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121845	Sir. Morten Østergaard is again in the Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121850	That's what I can keep up with from the chambers, too. I wondered both about what was coming now and also about what was in the rapporteur's speech that this is an irresponsible practice. I think that adds a new dimension to the debate. Because that leaves a picture of the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Henrik Dahl believes that consideration should be given to the way forward, for example. If you have become a nurse and want to be a teacher, you should be an indication that you have been irresponsible. My view is that if people are standing in May thinking that it is not safe for them to be a nurse for the rest of their lives, perhaps they would rather be a school teacher lacking some of them, it is more serious to encourage people to complete that education. But that is not what this policy is all about, and that is why I would like to say that the irresponsible practice of study is entirely at the expense of the training ceiling, and that is also the case with the parties that support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323121953	Serious cases of dual education have been dealt with with with the many exceptions and the positive list that exists. So any serious training changes can be made. I have been a university teacher and examiner for almost 25 years, and I have to say that the examples I have heard, from the experience I have built up over the 25 years, taste more of an irresponsible study practice than of well-considered double education, which one can take.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323122023	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323122024	So a nurse who wants to be a teacher or a doctor is an irresponsible person with irresponsible considerations. I have to say, I'm amazed. One is to say that we lack the money, another is to argue, as we have heard here today, on the one hand, and on the other hand, but to make the people affected by the educational ceiling unrogue, I have to say amaze myself, and I have to say that I am deeply, deeply disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323122049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323122050	You're always gonna think of different things as irresponsible. So now we have had an exciting exchange in this Chamber about how to judge and interpret things that are irresponsible. I do not know whether it really requires a comment that Mr. Morten Østergaard is deeply amazed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323122111	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323122121	Thank you. Today is a very special day. The signatures of 53,774 people have resulted in the first citizens' proposal today on the programme. And it's big, so thank you. The system of citizens' proposals, adopted on 19 December last year, is a step on the road to a more inclusive democracy, we believe in the alternative. The first proposal, made by a student and student organisations, aims to abolish the ceiling on education, as we have heard today. And at least here from my place and from the Alternative, there's a huge yes to it. The educational ceiling helps to create stress and frustration about the choice of education, for what if you choose wrong? We are dealing in Denmark with a group of young people who are enormously pressured and feeling very stressed because of their education and the many choices they face in this context. The Danish Magisters Association has recently carried out a study showing that the stress levels among students at universities and professional colleges are high. 90% has replied that they have experienced stress during the last semester, and 23 per cent. indicate that during the last semester they have felt stressed a large part of the time. So we have to take this seriously. That is why the education ceiling for me is to see the last shot at the tribe in a whole range of policy measures that put young people under even greater pressure. We know that young people are affected by their well-being, and basically it is about whether young people should be able to find meaning in their lives. It is difficult to make a decisive choice that affects so many years into the future, and it is difficult to be locked in a daily life that you do not experience makes sense, and therefore we need to have more flexibility left in our education system, and I am sure that I know what the students themselves think. When the ceiling was introduced last year, we saw the reaction of the many who felt affected. We saw demonstrations, even more of them, and we saw a petition of more than 80,000 signatures. Young people have even received statements of support from students and students in both Italy, Britain, France, the Netherlands, Iceland, Estonia and many more countries and, as I said earlier in a question to the Social Democrat rapporteur, it is actually true that it is 60%. of the Danes who support the abolition of the educational ceiling according to the last YouGov survey. I have also asked other rapporteurs in the past about the democratic political formation of young people, because we know from a study conducted by Aarhus University that young people do better when it comes to knowledge about democracy, politics and social conditions, but when it comes to transforming that knowledge into political commitment and active participation, it is no longer true because young people are not inclined to engage and actively participate. And that is very likely because they experience that they are not taken seriously and that what they are doing is not being used for anything. That is precisely why this is important today, and it is important that we have a more engaging democracy where we not only listen, but also use the knowledge we get, and I therefore regret, as I have also mentioned today, that three of the largest parties, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Left, shot down the citizen's proposal before it even came to debate in this Chamber. So I believe that it shows a sort of arrogance, as one might call it, when one does not even want to take the debate and hear what more than these 50,000 young people have to say. That is not what we need in Denmark. We need the people to have another voice, as we have here today, and for the young people and the people's opinion to be taken seriously to a greater extent than it is today, and for people to be heard, and for what is at heart to be used much more directly. We owe it to young people, as I said earlier today, to listen, to have access to education, to have access to it, to have access to it, to have access to it, to have access to it, to have access to it, to have access to it, to have access to it, to have had access to it, to have had access to it, to have had access to it, to have had access to it by previous rapporteurs, and we owe them security in an education system, and we owe it to them to a flexible education system which takes account of the fact that one can be wrong. It is a good thing to be wrong, and we must support that in our education system. It is a security that is crucial for many young people today who feel stressed and pressured by the fear of choosing wrong. So, if there is any doubt, I would say once again: the alternative will, of course, vote in favour of the citizens' proposal, B 82. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323122638	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323122649	It is certainly a day of celebration today that we have the first citizens' proposal on Parliament's agenda, and I also think that today's debate in itself shows that it is a good addition that we can meet across parties and have a debate on something which is of great concern to many people and which in record time became the first citizen's proposal with more than 50,000 signatures. The fact that it will not be a party day, because there is still a massive majority behind the educational ceiling, may not come as a shock either to those who signed it or to those of us who took part in the debate. However, I would like to take this opportunity to pay more attention to those who have raised it and to the substance and content of it. For what I find most surprising today is that the proposal for a ceiling on education has gone from being another element in the fact that education is such a well that you fish up money when you lack it in here at Christiansborg, as we know it from the police conciliation, which was to be financed with 2 percent savings on youth education and higher education, and therefore also with the allowance agreement, which was made with the then Left Government and the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, but which was underfunded at its birth. But then they had tied each other to finding the funding, and that became the training ceiling. All those involved in political work have been in situations where agreements were to be financed. Many have tried to find themselves in situations where it hurt a little, because perhaps not all the thoughts were born in one's own little duckam, but one has had to find each other in political compromises. But what is amazing about today's debate is that, miraculously, the ceiling on training has gone from being something which should finance an otherwise excellent allowance agreement, which we also supported, but got off on when the funding came forward, to suddenly being an expression of good education policy, according to those who have defended it here today. In other words, where we have been able to gather for years about how we could ensure that young people did not fall out of their education, today in the Folketing there has been a mood, not least among the three largest parties, towards the fact that it is good that young people are skipping their education. And the closer they are to their bachelor degree, the more carefully they must consider whether the time is not ripe to change. We have, of course, traditionally seen and worked for years for people to finish their education, and we have even tried to get more people to do so with economic tools. This is why a marked shift in education policy has taken place. Where we have been asking for many years what we can do to open more doors to people, give more opportunities, so that those who come from foreign educational homes, too, can get an education, that is, the desire for more young people to be given the opportunities, then you have changed horses and you say that education policy must now be used to shut doors to people. When we look beyond a labour market in which there is a shortage of labour in many areas, including in the public sectors, nurses, teachers and others, then it is now the case that the majority believe that even if people should consider whether the training they are taking is perhaps the right way for them, they should not shift towards something that may give them both more motivation and better chances subsequently in the labour market. This is in some way in a strange contrast to the discussion we had with the Minister of Education at the beginning of the day, which was about the introduction of an element in the financing system which was about it pointing towards the post-study period. That is why I think the most regrettable thing about today's debate, which is otherwise a day of celebration, because it is the first citizen's proposal, is that, in reality, the parties that I think are doing well with the wrong rapporteurs around the table and at the very wrong time in the history of Denmark, and even at a time when, according to the Prime Minister, it is going so well that we can afford to reduce the price of cars and everything else, chose to use fewer opportunities in the education system as a source of funding for an allowance agreement. The politicians are now flipping the flag of the education ceiling, as if it has now become a crown jewel in education policy. I find this both amazing and extremely regrettable, and I can guarantee that we will both vote in favour of this motion for a resolution and that we will also work hard to ensure that, by a new majority, we can abolish the education ceiling again and give the opportunities back to those who have lost them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323123148	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323123156	Thank you. Although it has been some sad reports that have come to the Chamber today that we will continue to support the educational ceiling, it is a rather historic day, which is why I cannot help being a little happy and a little excited, because this proposal forms part of history. It is Denmark's first citizens' proposal, and it came lightning quickly after the citizens' proposal had become an opportunity. And I think it did, because large parts of the Danish population think that the educational ceiling is a terrible idea. Thanks to the student and student movement, but also thanks to the many students around who have marked their dissatisfaction. And thank you to all those who have sent a clear signal to the Danish Parliament, with the citizens' billing system and their signatures, that the educational ceiling is a foolish idea. In addition, a study shows that it is not just the 50,000 who have signed or rather the 53,000 • but that there are in fact three out of four Danes who think that this is not the right way to go about education policy. Then why isn't it? Why is it that people are hitting on this proposal? What makes people unhappy with it? I think it is due to several things. First of all, I think it is because it touches the right to become wiser. After all, the thing about education is about releasing the individual and getting smarter, and when you suddenly set a ceiling on it and say that because you have now got a bachelor, it has to be 6 years before you can learn more about what you want with your life, then it basically conflicts with the educational thinking that we have had in Denmark for a long time. And so it also pushes young people at a time when they are pushing young people with national tests; when they are being pressured to be ready for training and faster; when they are being pressured to get high grade averages; when they are being pressured to finish their education quickly. This is just another step in increasing pressure on young people. It is true that doubt is a gift of mercy, I would say to Mrs Mette Reissmann, but one can only allow oneself to be in doubt if one dares to be wrong. It is true that one can still be in doubt about whether one has taken the right education, but if one knows that the moment one chooses wrong, it just closes and one has to wait six years to take a new one, then doubt is not a grace gift because then one has no time to be in doubt, and then one cannot allow oneself to be in doubt. That's what's wrong with this proposal. Then it is also bureaucratic and expensive for Denmark with people who jump from; with increased administration; with people who know, after they have taken a bachelor's degree, that they want something else that they cannot be allowed to do, so they have to wait to get into a new education that they of course take at some point because they want to. I've been asking some people who have been hit by this proposal about some stories. I asked yesterday on Facebook that there were some who wrote their story about how they were hit by the ceiling. And I'd like to tell some of them. The first is from Mette Thomsen, who is studying Arab studies and who, during the refugee crisis, thought that she really wanted to help in Danish hospitals, because she could see that they were under pressure and that it was difficult to communicate with the refugees who need hospital help. So she thought that when she finished her Arab studies, she'd be a nurse. She can't be. There is Marie Poulsen's son, who is studying at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, and who thinks that it will be difficult to feed only after he has taken the course. So he also wants to have the opportunity to teach and therefore read art history. He can't be allowed to do that. There is Louise Baagøe, who has become a physiotherapist or lacks 10 months of physiotherapist education. She has found out in her internship that she has a special interest in surgery, and she wants to study medicine. She can't be allowed to do that. There is Anders Biegel, who has a master's degree in sport but who could not find a job and became a teacher's driver in the Danish primary school. He found out that this is what he is passionate about, but now he cannot get into teacher training because there is an educational ceiling. There is Andrea Dalsgaard, who has a dream of studying psychology and who therefore started in Danish with secondary subjects in psychology in the hope of being able to get into psychology later. That possibility has now been closed down. There is Benedicte Smith-Sivertsen, who studied philosophy, and who thought it might be exciting to mix it with molecular biomedicine because she does not believe in professional boundaries. She can't be allowed to do that either. Finally, I would like to read out a quote from the last time we dealt with the law on the education ceiling, which I thought was very good, namely from Mr. Henrik Dahl: I have two master's degrees myself, and I have them in two subjects that have absolutely nothing to do with each other, namely film science and sociology. For some periods I have lived on one degree, and for some periods I have lived on the other, and that is probably the last I have lived on. But no matter how and how I wouldn't be who I am if I didn't have both my master's degrees. And it has been of tremendous benefit both to me as a person and to the state in terms of tax payments. ▪ I think all these stories, including Mr. Henrik Dahl's history shows that the educational ceiling is a gigantic roar. I believe that this goes directly against the clever quote by the Minister of Education that young people should not be State-funded when they stick to the education ceiling. I think it is contrary to the Prime Minister's quotation that one thing that is clear is that change is the only constant so that the idea that you get a given education and get by with it is probably a thing of the past. That is also contrary to that quotation, so what is left of it? It is that a law is stubbornly maintained which 50,000 have signed to be opposed; which a majority of the Danes oppose; which is difficult to defend because it does not logically make sense. And I think you do it because you don't allow yourself the right to be smarter. But there has to be room for that. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323123744	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323123809	The negotiations have been opened. This is the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323123833	Thank you, Mr President. The unitary list and the alternative will require the government to allocate 5 billion by means of motion for a resolution B 74. kr. for an additional pay pool for the public collective bargaining in 2018. The purpose of the pool is to reduce inequality between women and men. As you know, equal pay belongs to the Ministry of Employment, but for the current collective bargaining it has been agreed with the Minister for Employment that I take this specific case. Let me start by saying that the government has sympathy for the intention behind the resolution, namely to ensure a more equal pay in Denmark. The government also agrees in principle that ensuring equal pay is a social responsibility. However, it is a social responsibility that must be lifted by the social partners, who also carry out major social tasks in all sorts of other areas. Because in Denmark it is the case that wage fixing and wage placement are left to the social partners. It is the Danish model of agreement, a model that we repeatedly highlight as the right solution for the Danish labour market. Therefore, the solution to the problem of equal pay must and must be found in the Danish model of agreement. We are not going to break with that. We can also see that equal pay is a theme in the current collective bargaining. A number of professional organisations have indicated that progress in the area of equal pay is a common priority. That is, for example, the case. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of equal opportunities for women in the labour market and the need to promote equal opportunities for men and women in the labour market in order to promote equal opportunities for men and women in the labour market. We therefore run the risk of interfering with the current collective bargaining with this resolution. This is not the way the Danish model works, nor do we want it to be in the future. In addition, it is important to bear in mind that wage fixing in the public sector is historically conditional. I say this not to justify wage differences, but more simply as a statement. It is the social partners who have a joint responsibility to look at the historical burden. I do not think that is the task of the Folketing. In this context, it is also important to emphasise that in many contexts we are struggling to maintain the Danish labour market model. That is why we must be careful not to undermine our defences to critics, for example. in the EU, which believes that much more issues on the Danish labour market should be regulated by law. So the government cannot support the motion for a resolution that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124142	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124144	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for your reception. The Minister emphasizes that it is the social partners who must ensure the development of equal pay. If we look at the National Research Centre for Welfare, the SFI, which is today called VIVE, we can see that they have made a calculation that says 111 years before we reach equal pay at the rate we have today. What does the Minister think of that projection?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124216	As Minister for Gender Equality, I am aware that we can make different projections, for example when we discuss the proportion of women in management and on boards, etc., so that if you leave things as they are, it can have very, very long prospects. In fact, that is why I would like to highlight how the parties involved in the current negotiations have, in this way, brought the issue of equal pay to the table, probably taking into account the fact that there is a slightly long prospect and it is therefore considered to be an important element in the negotiations. I fully understand that. That is why I, as Minister for Gender Equality, also do various activities in relation to the discussion on equal representation on boards and management, for example. However, I do not think legal action should be taken here at all. That's because I'm defending the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124312	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124315	Thank you. I couldn't quite understand from the minister whether the minister thinks it's okay if the projection is correct... that it takes 111 years before we get equal pay in Denmark. Because there are many things we can do. The same research centre for welfare has also submitted that the average wage difference is 17-18 per cent, the last time in February 2015. What does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124352	Well, I am quite aware that there are wage differences, I am also quite familiar with SFI's analysis of those things, and that is precisely why I also stress that this is part of what the parties are negotiating between the social partners, not the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124410	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124412	Firstly, I would very much like to acknowledge that the Minister actually sees the problem of equal pay in Denmark not as a result of the choices made by some individuals, but as a social problem and a social responsibility. I think that is actually a very big and important step. If we can agree on that in here, we can start discussing solutions at a completely different level. So first of all, thank you for that and then the end. And then to the next question. The Minister says that it must be the social partners who take care of whether exactly the agreements should lift some of the low-paid women's jobs • women's-dominated professions, in order to be quite correct, which greatly distort the balance. Does the Minister not agree that when it comes to the public sector, it is probably a little more muddy than that? Because is it not true that it is quite factually the Folketing, the government, which sets the financial framework for the very negotiations that the Danish Parliament in the State, the Danish Regions in the region and the National Association of Municipalities in the territory of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124531	No, I would not say that is as simple as it is the Folketing that does it in relation to the financial framework, because it is not the Folketing that is the employer. That is why it is important to bear in mind who is the parties to exactly the collective bargaining that is going on here and now. So, no, the simplification that Mrs Pernille Skipper is trying to present here somewhere, I simply do not agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124601	Then I simply did not express myself correctly enough, or I have achieved what was my intention, which in fact was not to say that it was simple. My intention was to say it's pretty muddy. Because if you take the territory of the state, there is Mrs Sophie Løhde, who, on the one hand, is a minister, a politician, a member of a government, but, on the other hand, also a chief negotiator in some collective bargaining. And she's wearing two caps, so it's the same person that we're asking both ourselves and each other but kind of also her not to mix up. This is one of the things that makes it a little strange in the field of public contracts. The second is that the financial framework comes from the public sector. In the Danish Regions, politicians vote on whether to lockout or not. It is also in the KL, and it is also politicians who sit in the government and decide whether or not to do so. So it's something mixed up. What we are asking here in silence is for a financial framework to be set which will enable the parties to negotiate an equal wage. This is not a wish to distribute the money in a concrete way, but it is to say: we are putting off a bag of money, because that kind of employer we want to be in the public sector. We would like to be the kind of employer who takes the social responsibility that the Minister also talked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124716	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124718	In order not to make it more muddy than what is absolutely necessary, I would say that the truth is that it is not the Folketing that is the employer, and I think it is essential that we make it absolutely clear, that it is absolutely clear who the parties are. It is the social partners; it is the employer, it is the worker. It's not the Folketing. That is why we must always, all the time and in particular now be very, very aware of exactly what the Danish model is expressing. It is the social partners who are negotiating these things. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124758	With that we thank the Minister in this instance. And that is the first in the rapporteur's line, Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323124810	Thank you. Equal pay for equal work, that is what an old parole sounds like, which unfortunately cannot quite be referred to the museums' exhibitions yet. Social democracy is and has always been very concerned about equality. We believe that all people, regardless of gender, sexuality and ethnicity, should have equal opportunities. We also find it quite obvious that two people who do the same work should have the same for it, whether it is man or woman. That is why we also look with concern at the statistics that repeatedly show that there is still an inexplicable pay gap between men and women. When the Social Democratic Party had the power of government, we led the expansion of gender-based pay statistics. More companies than in the past were covered by the rules as companies with up to ten full-time employees and at least three women and three men had to be included. We wanted greater attention to equal pay, even in the smallest companies, in recognition that, although we have had an equal pay law for decades, we will not be able to reach the goal of more than 100 years unless we do something about current developments or the lack of them. Unfortunately, when the government changed after the elections in the spring of 2015, the new Left Government chose to roll back the changes even before new figures had emerged for gender-based pay statistics. So let me just make it clear at the outset: from the point of view of the Social Democrats we want to see the extended rules reinstated. They were a tool for promoting the equality of pay that we have fought for for so many years. So for the more specific motion for a resolution that we have been brought together in the Chamber right now. There should be no doubt that the Social Democratic Party believes that the public sector workers are contributing with an extremely high value, and by virtue of our excessively gender-separated labour market, we can also allow ourselves here to express our thanks to the vast majority of women who make a huge difference every day. The country's educators and school teachers are responsible every day for giving Denmark's future, our kids, a good start to life and a solid human and professional ballast with in the luggage forward. And in home care and in nursing homes and hospitals, sosu helpers, sosu assistants and nurses make a huge effort to ensure the safety, care and treatment of the weakest elderly and all of us when we are affected by illness. I could mention several professional groups, but time does not allow it, so let me just make it clear: the value for our society of the work done by public servants cannot be underestimated and is certainly no less than the value of the work done in the typical male sectors. However, the proposal here is not appropriate. Firstly, the funding is not in place and therefore, of course, we cannot support it. Secondly, no one in this Chamber or in many other places in the quite Danish country is in any doubt that we are in the middle of collective bargaining in the public sector. During these days, behind closed doors are being negotiated in the Conciliation Body in order to reach an agreement after a longer negotiation process between the parties. Because, as the Minister also explained, the question of wage formation is, by virtue of the Danish labour market model, a question for the social partners in particular. This also means that there must be an arm's length transfer from Christiansborg in relation to the current negotiations and, to put it plainly, in Danish: We must stay out of this. This is no less the case when the negotiations have entered the crucial stage of the conciliation process right now. Social democracy supports and fights for equal opportunities, equality and equal pay, but we do not support the resolution that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125145	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125148	It really annoys me. I was very pleased with much of the rapporteur's speech, but the conclusion really annoys me very much, firstly because there is a historically conditional pay gap, where women have just historically been placed lower than men on the pay scale, and we need a jump. It is really hard to get through in the collective bargaining process. Secondly, because there are a lot of trade unions who have actually asked the Folketing to help make the framework less narrow, so that the negotiations could result in an improved equal pay, and thirdly, because this proposal is almost embarrassingly similar to a proposal that the Socialists also made just over 10 years ago, where the problem unfortunately also existed. At that time, in 2007, the Social Democrats were both ready for an equal pay commission that we received, and also an additional 5 billion. kr. for a pool with exactly the same purpose. What's changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125303	Thank you for that, and thank you first for all the rose. This must always be remembered in a political debate, where it is very often the conflicts and edges that will be available, so thank you for that. In concrete terms, however, when we last had this discussion about ten years ago, we were not in the middle of collective bargaining as we are doing right now. It was in fact well before, and I must therefore just repeat what I think the Minister said so clearly, namely that if we support the Danish model, where the parties reach negotiated solutions, then we have a special responsibility here: to withdraw and let the Danish model work and let the parties do all they can to reach a negotiated solution, even if it may be attractive to do the opposite. And that's where we are right now. And it has to be said that the resolution we are debating right now is doing everything but keeping a distance from the negotiations currently under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125412	I simply understand it right: if we had dealt with this proposal a year ago, the Socialists would have supported it, because then it would have been well before the collective bargaining. It is the choice of time and distance from the negotiations that is the problem. In fact, I would like to know whether that is what the rapporteur thinks is the problem here. The next point is that it cannot be the evolution of equal pay that has changed since 2007, when it was proposed here a year before the collective bargaining. So, what if we put it back after these collective bargaining negotiations? If they don't succeed... will it be with the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125454	Thank you. No, it's not the only thing. If the rapporteur had listened to my speech, she would know that the first reason why we reject the proposal is that it is unfunded. It has to be said that we have limited means to do good in our society, and we are, after all, fighting every day to ensure that there are proper conditions for public servants when we are fighting for proper conditions in our welfare. When I discuss whether it is okay to fiddle with the driving hours in home care, so that the time that should go to care and care for the elderly is eaten out on the roads, it is also a discussion about what kind of terms and conditions we offer to our public employees. So in this way, this is a broader discussion than a discussion of 5 billion. kr., you can grab out of the air and spend on equal pay. It will, of course, be a discussion on how we will finance it, and it will also be a discussion on what we will use the room for manoeuvre on where we think there is the most crucial need. This is a much greater discussion than the one we have today, which is specifically about the establishment of an equal pay pool. So no, we cannot conclude, as the rapporteur is trying to do, that this proposal will be tabled again in six months' time, and the Social Democrats will stand as the proposer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125604	The next question is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125607	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and for his clarification. The Labour Party stands up... I'm amazed. It's been less than ten years since you asked the question yourself, and there you found funding. Should I understand from the rapporteur that the funding that you found at the time would rather be given priority elsewhere, so that equal pay is no longer so high a priority for Social Democracy? I'd like to hear about that first thing. The second is: what steps will the Social Democratic Party take to remember these 111 years of development so that it does not take so long before there is equal pay? What other concrete steps has the Social Democrats taken on the wall, once they themselves have taken their own proposals off again?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125704	Thank you. Well, I have to repeat that there is no funding for this proposal that I could choose to spend on other fun things. It would be nice if that were the case. But there is no funding. There are some loose ideas about something that could perhaps be introduced and that could provide a revenue that could cover some of this in the long term. But that is not something you can seriously stand up to and say. I certainly cannot stand up and say that the loose funding that may be possible, I would rather spend on something else. This is not a proper, serious political discussion. However, the rapporteur may hear me say that when we discuss a proper framework for public servants, when we discuss recognising the enormous efforts they are making and the huge importance that our welfare has for our society at all, yes, we in the Social Democrats believe that it is essential to be willing to give priority to the area in economic terms. That is why we are going to go to the government we have right now, which is not going to let the money go with the increasing number of elderly people. This will mean that every year in the municipalities you have to start cutting down on nursing homes, kindergartens, primary schools, etc. And, yes, it is the crucial struggle for us, namely to ensure that our welfare societies are linked in the future too, and that the money goes with what is called demography in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125824	Thank you. We still have an agreement to press ahead if you wish to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125831	I'm sorry about that, too, on tape. Lack of funding? So, the share sales tax was also in play for S and SF in 2009, with a higher amount than is set aside in this resolution. So it is not a source of funding that is unknown to the Social Democratic Party. Having said that, I could not hear what concrete proposals the Social Democratic Party intends to put into effect in order to minimise this pay gap. So I have to ask again: what concrete steps has the Social Democratic Party taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323125917	Thank you. It is true that I forgot to answer the second part of the rapporteur's question before. It was not of malicious will; it was simply an oversight. In my speech, I myself mention these gender-separated, extended pay statistics. Now we have not had the opportunity to see how they work because the Left Government abolished them before they came to work. But in doing so, we are giving a tool, also quite specifically, to the parties that we are talking about here and who are engaged in some important negotiations which mean that we have to take a step back. However, local shop stewards are given a tool here in relation to the individual employer to lift the problem of the imbalance that may exist, including in small businesses. Similarly, we will get some figures that allow us to relate to it in a completely different way from industry to industry, from place of work to place of work. So it wasn't just because I wanted to mention something random we had done, but I actually think it would have been a really good idea if we had let it work. We will then not have the opportunity to see that, but it might well be that we had the opportunity to reinstate it, and it would be nice if the alternative would back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130020	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag. We move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130029	Thank you. This proposal is about the establishment of an equal pay pool, where the proposers will have allocated 5 billion. kr. for an additional pay pool for the public collective bargaining in 2018. The purpose of the pool is to reduce the inequality of pay between women and men, but the concrete implementation of the pool is carried out by the social partners. It is, of course, a very sympathetic proposal, but it is crucial that we, as Parliament, maintain the arm's length principle in relation to collective bargaining, also in view of the fact that the equal pay challenge is part of the ongoing negotiations. In Denmark we have an equal pay law, and what does it mean, and what does it say? It states quite clearly that every employer must pay equal wages to women and men in respect of all the components and conditions of pay for the same work or for work which is valued equally. Pieces 3 states that the assessment of work value must be based on an overall assessment of relevant qualifications and other relevant factors. Who, then, is responsible for the equal pay law? It is the Minister for Employment who has it at all times. Law is law, and the law must be observed. The challenge is what to do when the law is not respected, and what about work that can be valued equally? These are elements that we would like to discuss in greater detail, but that, in the middle of a very sensitive debate, we in the Folketing are going to discuss a motion for a resolution on a pool of equal pay, I find very problematic. The trade unions have given priority to equal pay in the collective agreement requirement. In the 2010 collective bargaining process, an equal pay board was set up, as I understand it, to settle cases according to the same model as is known from the farewell board. At the same time, the Equal Pay Act was implemented in the Agreement. I haven't been able to figure out how many cases have been raised in the Equal Pay Board. I would also like to learn a little more about how many cases have been raised on the Equal Pay Board and how they have ended up. The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution, although it is very sympathetic. We simply have to respect the Danish model and therefore we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130248	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments on my board, that is to say, we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130309	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by emphasising that we in the Left have sympathy for the resolution and that, on the basis of this, we share the view that ensuring equal pay is a social responsibility. For us, however, it is crucial that we do not break with the well-established Danish model in our efforts to ensure equal pay. It began with the September settlement in 1899 and has worked ever since. We are talking about something that is the backbone of our social development, the backbone of the wealth we have today. We in Denmark have a long tradition of allowing the social partners to agree on terms and conditions of employment. It is a model which attracts recognition around the world and which several countries are in favour of inspiration. And even though the authors of the comments on the proposal claim that it is the other way around, I would now like to insist that the proposal sets out a break with the Danish tradition. We're not comfortable with that. Collective agreements are binding agreements between two parties, and here there is no role for us as politicians, only in extreme emergencies. The Left believes that the establishment of an equal pay pool would be untimely political interference. I believe that we should maintain the principle that we politicians do not interfere in wage formation in the Danish labour market, and we cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130436	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130440	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the resolution is about allocating a pool earmarked for equal pay, but that it is the negotiating parties that will then have to implement it. So there is no one here who has suggested going in and making agreements or legislative measures on the part of the Folketing. It is the Folketing which already lays down the framework for public expenditure, among other things. by the Finance Act, every year, and which proposes to set a financial framework that the parties can choose to use if they want to. Could the rapporteur not just confirm that this is the content of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130528	Let me reply as follows: if you show up in the middle of a process in which the social partners negotiate wages, by 5 billion. kr. and if they are so stuck as part of the negotiations, you make a frontal attack on the Danish model, and we see no sense in that. If changes are to be made in this area, it is up to the social partners to fulfil that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130553	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130554	Well, that doesn't make any sense. After all, it is the Folketing which sets the financial framework for public expenditure. It's the Folketing that makes finance laws and everything else. Of course, the Folketing can also choose to say that you put a pool to it and then let the parties sitting at the negotiating table translate it. I would just ask the rapporteur to confirm that the proposal here is for a pool to be set aside which the parties are putting into effect. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130625	I would like to confirm that the proposal will, of course, increase the envelope by 5 billion unfinanced kroner, and we do not think that is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130633	Then there was a question from Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130637	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I merely stumbled over one remark made by the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that this is a frontal attack on the Danish model. In other words, if the rapporteur and myself sit and negotiate and we suddenly get an extension of the framework, then we have 5 billion. kr. more to negotiate on, which we are not forced to exploit, but which we have, because we are both aware that there is a pay gap that is problematic in these negotiations. How, then, can it be a frontal attack to be offered to expand the framework so that we can meet the challenges that we both agree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130719	So, let me point out that the Danish model is that in 1899, the September agreement between DsF was made, which if I remember correctly is the LO today, and the Danish Employers' Association. It was agreed that the trade union movement was the only ones to negotiate wage conditions and that the Danish Employers' Association was the opposite party. And the two sides were the framework for what we call the Danish model. This led to the main agreement in 1899, and it was not amended until the main agreement of 1960. This is the model that says that we politicians should not interfere in wage formation in the labour market. That is why I had the remark to Mrs Pernille Skipper a moment ago that the Danish model should be torpedoed if, in the middle of wage negotiations, there are 5 billion. kr. and waving them, like, out on the periphery of these negotiations. And if one imagines that it will not have a very great influence on these negotiations, then I do not think that the essence of the Danish model is quite the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130825	I agree with the rapporteur that this will have an impact, and hopefully a very good and positive impact on the pay gap in the labour market today. That is precisely why these funds must be offered. The framework that the rapporteur is talking about is that some parties are talking. That frame is intact. We've just increased their budget. That is the only thing that will happen if the rapporteur's party agrees and wants to support the idea that the pay gap should be minimised.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130856	At any rate, I agree that it is good if the pay gap is minimized and the principles we have on equal pay are put into practice. However, I do not agree that this is something that we should take from the parties that have to negotiate and that we should get involved in it politically. We must ensure that this is done within the framework of the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130923	But we are grateful to the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323130933	Thank you. As we have already heard, there are currently collective bargaining between the public employers and a number of employees' organisations. As parliamentary politicians, we can quickly interfere unnecessarily. I think that, as a starting point, we should have respect for the labour market model that we value so much. That is why there are a number of aspects that I am not going to produce today, but I believe that everyone in this House agrees that equal pay should be paid for equal work, regardless of gender. But we also need to keep the facts in mind, especially in an area of such strong emotions. However, as I said, I have great sympathy for the background to the resolution, namely that equal pay should be paid for equal work. That is why I am glad that we have a law which states that we should have it. And if some people are aware of situations where women or men are paid lower wages simply because they are women or men, then of course action must be taken, because the existing law must be observed. The Liberal Alliance does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131048	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131052	I would just like the rapporteur to say quite straight who the public employers referred to here in the rapporteur's speech are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131105	Many people are involved in these things and I do not want to go deeper into it at this stage because the negotiations are running.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131116	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131117	The rapporteur will not go deeper into who the public employers are. That sounds like some extremely secret negotiations we're in. Now we must not even know who the public employers are anymore. I can answer the rapporteur. After all, it is the Modernisation Board that is negotiating on the employer side of the state's territory. The head of the Modernization Agency is Mrs. Sophie Løhde. The Ministry of Modernisation has been given the task of keeping wage costs down, and I think I am almost quoting it. They have therefore been specifically told that they must keep a tight framework in terms of wage costs. Who told them? Politicians do. So I will just try again: who are the employers in the public collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131211	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131212	In the collective bargaining that is currently under way, a framework has been set and we, as parliamentary politicians, should not go in and interfere with that after they have been set up and the negotiations are under way. That is why I shall not go into the matter any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131228	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go to the Alternative's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131239	Thank you for that, President. We're talking about B 74 if you weren't sure what we were talking about here. The alternative, together with Enhedslisten, proposes that the Danish Parliament instruct the government to allocate 5 billion. kr. for an additional pay pool for the public collective bargaining in 2018. The purpose of the pool is to reduce inequality between women and men, but the concrete implementation of the pool is carried out by the social partners, who have been mentioned ample today. We are tabling the resolution because, in the alternative, we are convinced that the pay gap between women and men does not disappear on its own, and 111 years at the present rate of compensation are too slow for 111 years! So there is good reason to speed up. It has been shown several times that the pay gap between women and men in today's Denmark is on average around 17-18 per cent. That difference has been unbelievably unchanged over the last 35 years, despite the fact that women today are almost as much on the labour market as men and that their level of education today is higher than that of men. Women are often employed in occupations which are traditionally less paid than men's occupations. Women and men take different courses, and they end up in different jobs. In the public sector, more than 70% are employed. Women employed, but also in the private sector, can typically talk about women and men's dominated areas. So we can explain why there are wage differences in Denmark, but that is not going to make the problem any smaller. One might still ask how it can be that this is the case. I think that there can be no natural or supernatural reason why men are paid more than their female colleagues. I think that this is essentially a question of standards and traditions in family life and in the Danish labour market. The good news is that we can easily change that together, if we decide to do so here in the Folketing. The social partners have part of the responsibility to put an end to inequality, and this has been denounced incredibly many times by some of the rapporteurs. That is true: you have a responsibility. It is therefore gratifying that employees and trade union organizations in the negotiating community have called for a pool of women-dominated professions in the public contracts, and this despite the fact that such a pool will mean less to everyone. So there are limits to what the social partners can achieve in terms of creating equal pay. In the Folketing we can therefore help. In the Folketing we can therefore support it by making the framework larger and extending the limits of what is possible, and therefore, together with Enhedslisten, we propose an equal pay pool. It is still not the Folketing that goes in and acts actively in the negotiations. The Folketing is just expanding the framework. In particular, with KL's rejection of the common demands, it is essential that the Folketing show a willingness to act in order to create a real development towards equal pay • a real development that does not take 111 years. It is crucial that we, as a society, stand together in the demand for equal pay. In this context, it is important to stress that equal pay is not a zero-sum game, nor is it only for women, but also for men who can finally and hopefully get rid of the parenting role, so that we can enter into a more equal family relationship with earmarked maternity, with less stress and hopefully better health. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131636	Thank you. Then there is a brief remark from Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131641	Well, I would just like to hear something from the rapporteur, because reference is made to the fact that it is, like, a wish of the professional organisations. So I just want to know if it is all the professional organisations in the public sector that support the proposal that you have put forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131657	No, I can't say it is. I don't have a basis for saying that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131707	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323131721	After all, I was just saying a topical subject, that is, something that hits into the collective bargaining process in the way we look at them. Before I do so, however, I would like to make a few comments about the wage differences that we know. In other words, it is clear that there are low-paid women's jobs and that there are higher paid men's jobs. It is in itself a bad thing, and we should perhaps try to make some sort of strategy on how to raise this kind of debate. But it is an even worse injustice if you have the same education and work function, but different wages, depending on the sex you have. This should not be possible in an enlightened society such as the Danish one. What we can then say at the same time on the issue of wages is to stress that a great many of those we are talking about now are employed in the public sector. It is large, and it must be, because we have many demands on it as citizens. Therefore, it is also important in this context to say that those who work in the public sector very often do so because they are committed to it and that they are indispensable in the society that we have in Denmark. We simply could not do without all the employees who are around, who carry out a great many tasks, and who in a way can be described well with a picture as being the extended arm of the family. When the family cannot take care of the children themselves, some take care of them in a children's institution. When you cannot teach them yourself, there are some who teach them in a school institution etc. All the way up through life. I think that is a very good picture because it also says something about being a special part of our labour market when you are the extended arm of the family. They create cohesion in our society, and it is whether it is men or women who carry out those functions and tasks. That is why I also very much appreciate the motion for a resolution which has been tabled here, in which the Enhedslisten and the Alternative propose that we create an equal pay pool and then allocate 5 billion. kr. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. I can really understand the general sense of snuff, if I may say so, because we have been discussing for decades how we should carry out the task of equal pay for equal work. And then the chain bounces off a little bit, and now I quote from the motion for a resolution, where it says: "... the Folketing is a licensing body in the public collective bargaining key actor,...'. That is then the reason for making that pool. And then the quote goes on:... if the equal pay problems are to be addressed and the pay gap is to be reduced. There I ask whether it really is the Danish model I hear mentioned here. Is it really the Folketing that grants everyone who is employed in the public sector? I do not think it is. There we have the organisations either in the municipalities or in the regions, and of course there are some government employees. And whether the latter could perhaps be said to some extent that it was also the responsibility of the Folketing, but not in the way that has to do with our collective bargaining system. So it is important that you do not correct for bakery or whatever it is called. In this case, it is the Minister of Innovation who is responsible for the government employees. The Minister of Innovation is of course a member of the Folketing and the government, but she is who she is and has the function she has because she is part of the government. So I can't say that I'm against trying to solve this. I'm not. But I'm against saying that it's the Folketing that's the licensing body for the public employees. I think that is a different variation of the Danish model than I have ever met. But, of course, I am receptive to arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132206	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132209	It's the last thing you have to do. It is true that it is not the Folketing that is negotiating public contracts, and it should certainly not be. I would be terribly sorry for all the sympathy shown by Mrs Marianne Jelved for the whole project of creating equal pay if one got the understanding that Enhedslisten thinks it would be a good idea for the Folketing to go in and interfere in the negotiations. We certainly do not think that should be done. What we are proposing is to increase the framework with a pool that has not been implemented but is earmarked for a specific purpose and then let the parties translate it. One of the reasons why we are doing this is because one of the parties is asking us for help to do so. They take it up, but they need the last help. And what I really just want Mrs. Marianne Jelved to confirm, even though Mrs. Marianne Jelved doesn't want to use the sentence that the Folketing is a licensing body, is that the Folketing still has a hand in the game somewhere. The Danish Parliament, partly because it is the Danish Parliament that makes the Finance Act, partly because it is politicians who set the framework for the work of the Modernisation Board, which is the body that sits and negotiates and it is also the Danish Parliament that can change the framework and last, but not least because the Danish Parliament is ultimately the one who makes the legislation and thus also sets the framework for how to behave as an employer in the public sector. So I guess we have something to say about how public employees are treated in terms of pay and working conditions. Haven't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132348	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132349	On the whole overall and in principle: yes. However, I do not believe that the Danish Parliament can manage the Modernisation Board or the Ministry of Finance as such. A majority in the Folketing can do that, and the government is on a majority. That is why the government has its backbone, or whatever you call it, its starting point in the majority that has made the government a government, and that is where the fight must stand. In other words, if Mrs Pernille Skipper and the Enhedslisten and myself and the Radical Left are not part of that majority, our chances of influencing these very points are very, very few. I am not saying that they are not there, but it could be that we should try to put in place a strategy on how to use the possible influence. Because I also think that over the last 10 years a great many changes have taken place, including in the way the Danish model I was about to say is being abused today. I do not think that what is now going on before us in the collective bargaining process is good, but I am not going to be wiser here from Parliament's platform. But we need to discuss: what is the Danish model today, and what should it be? It could be a great debate to go to the autumn, for example, and then you could try to say: How? Should we try some new ways to say how we can lift the problem of equal pay? It is not just a question of agreement; it is also a question of what the parties are dealing with as what they want to negotiate under the agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132527	Then it's Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132529	In fact, I agree entirely with Mrs Marianne Jelved, because it is true that when the government negotiates, it is on the basis of the majority of their mandate in the Folketing. That is why, of course, the Folketing also has something to say. Parliament should not sit at the table and should not interfere in how to implement and conclude an agreement. We cannot do that either, but a majority in the Folketing ultimately forms the mandate with which the government is negotiating. That is why we have something to say, and that is why I would also say that it is entirely within the framework of the Danish model that we place a pool with a purpose and then let the parties translate it. Then there's a lot of other things I can hear we can talk a lot more about, and I'd love to invite you to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132621	It must then be another time, because now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132624	I would like to point out once again that this is unfortunately not the case in practice, and I do not believe that this has been the case in practice, but I do not have enough historical knowledge that other parties who are not responsible for the government that is not responsible for that government can influence the way Mrs Pernille Skipper describes it, for example. to allocate money to an equal pay pool. Well, somehow we have to clarify where the power lies and where the responsibility lies and who does what in this context. However, nobody can deny anyone the right to discuss and develop ideas on how to move forward. After all, it cannot be taken from anyone, and everyone can contribute on an equal footing, in principle, and I just think we should make an effort to do so in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132725	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132728	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for both deepening and speech. I think that Mrs Marianne Jelved has an important point in her last comment on power and responsibility. I think the power lies in the framework of the negotiating parties, the responsibility also lies with the Folketing, the responsibility not to wait 111 years until we have equal pay. Once again, I think that when we think about social responsibility, it's about the benefit to the whole of society that we're working to minimize this pay gap. So if the rapporteur's party does not want to be here, I would like to hear what action the Radical Left has to take to smooth out this pay gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132824	I would like to elaborate on what I have said and on which I think the questioner is asking. And then I will give you a concrete example. After all, I am a teacher and have been a teacher for 22 years in primary school. When I was brand new as a teacher and worked a lot to do some really good hours, I sometimes saw some of my older colleagues look a little more relaxed, and then I said: You shouldn't have as much pay as I have, because I work more than you do. And then I was really mocked in the teacher's room. You didn't say that. You shouldn't talk like that. But the point is: All teachers have the same pay after how long they have been teachers, no matter what sex they have. And it hasn't just come from heaven, it's something that's decided at some point. And I think we should consider that too. How do we get all the other professional groups in the public sector to get the same pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132931	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen who is allowed to speak on behalf of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323132943	Thank you. In SF, we believe that equal pay is a prerequisite for real equality, and this is a really important topic that Enhedslisten focuses on here. On the other hand, I also agree with Mrs Marianne Jelved that we are facing a rather serious situation: in a few weeks' time we risk the whole of public Denmark shutting down. I do not remember that we have been in such a serious situation in the past, which has indeed arisen, despite the fact that everyone has played according to the rules that apply in the Danish model. The organisations have submitted their demands and have entered into a historic musketeer, which has not been seen before. They have done so because experience from the last ten years of collective bargaining has shown that cohesion is necessary and important. This also means that 51 organisations have prioritised, for example, that teachers must have a collective set of working time rules, that state employees must have a paid lunch break, that a pool should be set aside for equal pay, and not least that public employees should generally have a wage increase, which can be felt, after several very lean collective negotiations. Public employers also play according to the rules; they simply play according to government rules, where much greater room for manoeuvre is to be spent on tax cuts and lower car charges instead of salaries for the core forces of society and for welfare. And on the basis of the negotiations, more flexibility is also on the agenda, which in my view will also result in much less continuity. In short, the tiles are in place, and you are faster than usual at a point where both parties are considering the next move to avoid being put checkmate. Everyone is holding their breath, because the situation is not only evidence of disagreement between parties; the situation also shows that the Danish model is fragile in relation to the public negotiations. Therefore, it is also a bit like the dog in a game of cones that we have to deal with this proposal today. The proposals of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are not only imprecise; it is frankly untimely as well. For the organizations have just not made this proposal for collective bargaining. I do not want to know why they have not made the request, but it is certain that what is currently on the table in the Conciliation Body are the demands that the organisations and employers have put on the table. However, even if one imagined that the parties of the Folketing could, at will, play various proposals on the table of the conciliation woman, it would certainly not do anything good for the position taken by the parties on the playing board. If so, who should have the 5 billion? kr., which the proposal here is about? And is 5 billion. kr. Anything at all? Why isn't it 6 billion? kr.? Or would 3 billion. kr. could reach? Should the Folketing only take a position on the gender labour market in the public sector, or should the money also cover the gender inequality which is in the private labour market and which the articles referred to by Enhedslisten in their proposals are, in fact, also about? The fact is that there is disagreement about what is the cause of unequal pay. This is also clear from the articles referred to. It is complex and covers many different conditions. It is interesting, for example, as the radical rapporteur also mentioned, that gender inequality is also seen in the same subject. A quote from one of the articles reads: per hour, while his female colleagues must settle for DKK 18.50. less in the hour. The difference arises primarily because of the local salary. The inequality is pronounced in very many subject areas, and the nearby solution could be to propose the abolition of local pay. But that proposal has not been made either. There are also other factors involved, such as the fact that wages in the public sector are traded in percentages rather than in dollars. This constantly increases the difference between the lowest paid and the highest paid, both in the same occupation and between occupations. It is also the case that the hierarchical wage classification of women is, in fact, part of the core of the matter in the early days of the transition from official employment to collective employment, also plays a role in relation to the gender labour market. We would very much like to take part in a discussion in the Committee on Gender Equality with a view to identifying what sort of handles need to be turned on if we are to succeed with equal pay, both in the public and private sectors. For one thing is certain and certain, namely that we in the SF believe that real equality presupposes equal pay. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to call on the government's negotiators to break open this piggy bank and find a settlement in which the organisations can also see themselves. In the meantime, it makes the best sense not to interfere in the content. And the SF does not therefore support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323133501	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323133503	The SF's rapporteur is quite right in saying that the issue of equal pay is complex and that there is a great deal to be done. I think we should be careful not to say that one turn of one button is completely irrelevant, because there are a thousand buttons that can be turned on, because then we will never get anywhere. So I guess that argument is what you call a diversion. The question of whether it should also cover the private labour market may be rather rhetorical, because funny enough it is not what has been proposed. A pool has been proposed for the public where there are many low-paid women's jobs. The answer to why it should not be 3, but 5 billion. kr., is that the many trade unions that have urged us to put it here said that this was what was needed. And yes, we've actually been asked for this by the Health Cartel, by the FOA, by BUPL, by all those who represent the women who work every day with our welfare, but receive a significantly lower salary for it than men in other subjects with corresponding lengths of education, despite being so central to the whole machine. So one more time for Prince Canute: what is the difference between the proposal made by the SF in 2007 and the proposal we are debating today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323133634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323133635	The answer to the last question first: in fact, there is a quite significant difference between what was going on in 2008 and what is going on in 2018. In 2008 FOA actually proposed 5,000 DKK. This was part of the collective bargaining process itself. It was played into the collective bargaining process. It was on the employer's desk. It was a concrete proposal to lift public servants' women because there was a lack of equal pay. This proposal has not been made in the collective bargaining process. A proposal has been made on which 51 organisations agree in relation to an equal pay pool. So it is true, Mrs Pernille Skipper, that I have also been approached by the public employees, and I have of course asked the question: do the organisations agree to make this proposal together? Is that covered in the musket nest? That is not what has been said in the collective bargaining process, I have to say. This might explain why the organisations have given priority to precisely those proposals which are now also essential in the negotiations: some rules on working hours for teachers, an equal pay pool, a break and then a general increase in pay for all, perhaps because all public employees have an experience of 10 lean years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323133812	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323133814	It may be that I am completely blank, but it is part of the demands that you want to raise equal pay. So that's part of it. That is part of the discussion. So what's being said doesn't make any sense. It is the public employees' organizations who have asked the Danish Parliament to give the negotiations a push by providing a framework which the parties can put into effect, and they raise the demand for equal pay together. So again: What exactly is the difference from when SF stood as an advocate for it, and then until now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323133856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323133857	Mrs Pernille Skipper knows very well that the demands that need to be made must be made at the negotiating table and that the 51 organisations have given priority to some proposals together. So it does not make sense for us, as Parliament, to come and say that we would also like to make a proposal, that we would also like it to be given priority over something else. It is not up to the Folketing to decide what priority should be given to anything else. I think that teachers think it is very important that they, for example, should do so. have an agreed working time rule. I think that also makes sense, but it is not the same as the fact that we in the Danish Parliament have to decide how priority should be given at the negotiating table. Of course, the organisations and employers must do this together. At some point they come out, and then there's either white smoke or conflict, and then we'll have to see how we're supposed to behave then.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323133951	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And so we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323134009	Ensuring gender equality and thus equal pay is also a social responsibility, and fortunately many rapporteurs have already pointed this out from this platform. And perhaps it is also the most important premise to be used so that we can continue to work. Because, as the SF rapporteur rightly pointed out just now, this proposal, which we are discussing today and which Enhedslisten and the Alternative have put forward, can do something to solve the problem of equal pay, but certainly not everything. Perhaps it is a little much to say that there are a thousand other buttons to turn on, but there are at least a lot of other buttons to turn on before we are in the goal. The fact that wages in occupations dominated by women lag behind wages in occupations where most men work is a well-documented fact. This is both historical and cultural. The low pay in so-called women's professions is also the result of political decisions, more specifically the civil service reform of 1969, which was also referred to from the platform before, where the women's dominated professions were placed low in the pay hierarchy compared to subjects dominated by men. And then the argument was used that women's earnings were just a supplement to the family. It was the man who was supposed to support the family. So it was some kind of allowance, which is why women shouldn't get as much pay. That sounds absurd, but that argument was used in 1969. Today we then write 2018 and there we can probably agree that women are no longer on the labour market to earn pocket money, but actually to support themselves and often also their children and their families. Hopefully, we can also agree that the work that women, in particular, do in the public sector, is absolutely crucial for our society, for the cohesion force, so that we all feel well, that we can be cared for when we get sick, or can be cared for when we get old and cannot manage ourselves and need help, but also so that our private companies can drive around and make money because the employees can take care of their children while they go to work. That is why they are absolutely crucial and their work should be recognised, both with respect, but also financially. It hasn't always been. When Enhedslisten, together with the Alternative, has put forward this proposal to introduce an extra pay pool, it is not an idea we have grasped out of thin air. We have put forward the proposal because a large number of trade unions, for example. The nurses, educators, sosu assistants, midwives, physiotherapists, nutrition assistants, bioanalysts, social educators, disabled workers, porters, day care workers, cleaning staff and many others have asked us to do so because they themselves think they are facing an insoluble problem in relation to equal pay. You have wanted us to make available an extra bag of money which can be spent on what I think is a well-deserved salary increase for the women's domination professions, which are also often the low-paid professions. And that is an appeal which we have taken note of, because we agree that it is now their turn after many years of cuts and poor working conditions in the public sector and with wage restraint. Is there any money for that? Yeah, of course there's money for that. The Prime Minister stands almost incessant where he can get to it and boasts of how well things are going for the Danish economy. The government itself had a desire to spend 23 billion. kr. I would remind you that we now have a proposal here to spend 5 billion. kr. It is not the funding that we want to vote on. That is to set aside an equal pay pool, so if the Social Democratic Party wants funding other than the one proposed, then we could talk about it if that is what divided us. What others have so strongly argued for is that putting this pool aside would be interfering in the collective bargaining that is taking place. Firstly, it is not a new proposal. In fact, it is a proposal that we have stolen from other parties. The Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the SF submitted a similar proposal in 2007-08 for the same very good reasons, namely because they wanted to promote equal pay. Secondly, we are now proposing, as they did at the time, that it is a pool which is earmarked for the purpose but which the parties at the negotiating table are putting into practice. Nobody therefore believes that the Folketing should sit in here and decide, nitty-gritty, who should have what wage increases. It's up to the parties. Thirdly, I have to say that the point of saying that we should not have a position at all on the public contracts of the Danish Parliament, and that we should not have a pool either, because it would be interfering I do not know how many ugly things we have done to the Danish model today, according to the rapporteurs, but it has not received too little with the adjectives, so I would say that is to abuse the Danish model and hide behind it. For the public labour market is not like the private sector. On the other hand, it is a different playing field, and it is not the case in the public labour market that employers, for example, have to deal with this problem. losing money on a strike or a lockout as it is on the private labour market. Public employers actually save money. It gives you a crooked playing field. On the other hand, there is no clear separation between politics and those who sit and negotiate on the employers' side in collective bargaining. It is the Modernisation Authority which does this for employers in the public sector, and the head of the Modernisation Authority is a politician. Those who set the financial framework are politicians. Those who write how the Modernisation Authority is to carry out that task, i.e. For the clear purpose of keeping wages down, politicians are. Those who vote on whether to lockout in the regions or municipalities are politicians. Political members of the National Association of Municipalities from the Social Democratic and Government Parties have sat and voted in favour of a lockout. The same has happened in the region. It is a political decision which employer we will be in the public domain. And so, of course, we can say on the part of the Folketing: we will not decide that you should spend this bag of money at the negotiating table, but we say that it is there to solve some of the equal pay problem. If the parties at the negotiating table want to use it for that, it's here. It is simply not interfering, but it is saying that we can choose to be a certain type of employer. We can all choose to be the employer who just lockouts many thousands of public employees and tries to squeeze the lemon as much as we can, denying them wage increases, regardless of whether it is affordable or whether it is fair just because we can. We may choose to be such an employer in the public sector. But we can also choose to be the second type of employer. And that's one of them. Therefore, Enhedslisten voted against the lockout in KL and that SF voted against, namely because we can choose to be another form of employer. And I would say that this proposal is exactly the same. If we adopt this, we will choose that the public sector should be a form of employer who can also show respect for employees. However, we do not go in and take part in the detailed discussions by the Danish Parliament, of course not. I want to take the positive with me, and that is that everyone in here has actually said that it is a social responsibility to deal with equal pay problems. And I would particularly like to welcome the fact that the Minister and the rapporteur of the Left have said so. It is not just a question of some women choosing some low-paid subjects. It is actually a structural inequality and it is something we can do something about. Then we do not always agree on the individual solutions, but that is something we can do about, including from a political point of view. I will take note of that and take it further, and then we will continue to propose it in all sorts of other areas. And then it may be that we will see the proposal again at another time. That shouldn't surprise me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323134941	Thank you very much. There is one brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323134946	Thank you. SF fully agrees that unequal pay is a structural problem. On the other hand, we think it is to interfere in the negotiations when they have already reached a place where they are located in the Conciliation Institution. It's closed and off around the room, we don't know what's going on in there. But I would also like to challenge the fact that Enhedslisten makes this unequal pay a matter only for women employed in the public sector, because of the articles which Enhedslisten himself adds, it is clear, for example. We have also examined the private labour market here. So the problems do not exist only in the public sector. When the area couriers and transporting luggage has a pay difference of 90 DKK. between men and women, it is an expression of the fact that there are also problems elsewhere. That is also why I ask in my rapporteur's speech: is this not a much bigger problem than what Enhedslisten is making it right here? So you can always say, shall we not just solve the problem we have right here? However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it would be possible to imagine that the Enhedslisten would also propose the abolition of local wages, given that, in fact, local wages prove to be one of the most inequalities in relation to the difference between wages between men and women and also on high and low wages. Could one imagine such a proposal from the Enhedslisten in the Parliamentary Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135114	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135115	I would just like to make two comments on some of the points that have been made. Firstly, yes, I fully agree that it would have been very good if this proposal had come before us, we should say, a month ago. And when I say, we have to say a month ago, it is because one month is exactly as long as it took the government to find out which minister should deal with this proposal so that it could come to the Chamber. It has taken the government six weeks to get this proposal not just placed on an agenda, but to find out which minister should have it. To be honest, I fully admit that it would have been very good if it had come a month ago. We simply have to pass it on. The Enhedslisten has put this forward for, I think, two months ago. So I'm just gonna pass that criticism right on to the government. Is this not also a matter for people other than women in the public sector? Yes, indeed. This is a handle to screw on. That will not be enough at all and we have a lot of other proposals. I actually think that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen also knows very well that Enhedslisten has a lot of other good suggestions on how we can do something about equal pay across the Danish labour market, even without having to go in and legislate on something that is agreed as local wages. In my own union, I will fight to get rid of local wages, not in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135240	There is an opportunity to ask again for Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135243	Thank you. In fact, I also believe that Enhedslisten and SF agree fairly on the issue of unequal pay in general, and I agree that the time is just so badly chosen. It would probably have looked different if the proposal had been tabled a few months ago. Then there would have been a different debate, I think. I myself suggested in my rapporteur's speech whether we should not make this a debate we could perhaps have in the Committee on Gender Equality, where we could take some of the many other points that are, because it is clear from these very reports that it is complex beyond all limits, so that we get a real picture of what these are for some handles that need to be turned on first.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135330	I'd love to. I believe that the debate on equal pay is a debate which must actually take place constantly, said without exaggerating, if we are to have done anything about it, because we often go in circles in the argument. That is why I may also be a little sad that SF, who otherwise is my partner in crime, if you have to say that when it comes to equal pay, does not end up supporting this proposal, because I often think that we get shot in the shoes, that if we try to solve one thing over here, we should solve something else over there first etc. We can't solve it all at once, but we can start somewhere. I fully agree with Mrs Kirsten Normann that in the private labour market we also have major problems. And then I just want to stress that in my own trade union, as a member, I will always fight to get rid of local wages, because the more individual wage negotiations are, the more women are just cheated, and the better it is to organize themselves in terms of agreements, so join a union. Thank you for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135429	However, there is just one more question, namely from Mrs Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135432	I would actually like to ask a question which reminds me of what I put to the rapporteur of the alternative. Because since we are dealing with a situation where the negotiating community among employees is so incredibly important, has Enhedslisten and the Alternativet • now I can only ask Enhedslisten • whether there is broad support throughout the negotiating community for exactly this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135504	It is FOA, BUPL, the National Federation of Social Pedagogues, the Health Cartel, ten other trade unions that have approached. And, no, frankly, it is not my job to ensure that they all agree with the whole negotiating community, but it is a significant part of the public employees who are represented in this request, which is an open letter to the whole parliament about whether or not you want to help. And it is they who represent the women who are constantly being cheated just because they are women, if I may say so very harshly and directly. And I actually believe that Mrs Trine Torp agrees with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135544	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135546	I am just as indignant about the injustice that lies in it. But I am concerned about the situation we are in now, because what does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that this could be done about the musketeered that I started by saying is absolutely crucial in the situation that is now? Can it have some consequences for the musketeered about what it is that one has gone to negotiations together about that such a proposal here is being played on the field?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135622	Well, I can see why Mrs Trine Torp is asking. It is clear that it could be a concern one might have. I must also say that if the argument is that the SF is not going to vote in favour of this proposal because one does not want to interfere at all with what the framework is for the negotiations, then I do not think it is my job to go in and interfere with how one party has not organised both parties. I know that Mrs Trine Torp is not saying that we should start legislation on how the trade union movement should organise itself, but it is therefore up to them to clarify this themselves. This is a significant part of the public employees' representatives who have approached.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135709	Thank you. The questions are dripping at the moment, and now it is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup who has wanted to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135713	Thank you. Well, that's because Mrs. Pernille Skipper said there were some women who were cheated only because they were women. If that is the case, it is a violation of existing legislation, and then you have to report to the employers. Then why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135732	The Equal Pay Act, which I am sure Mrs May-Britt Kattrup knows, has two parts. One part is about equal pay for equal work. The second part is about equal pay for work of equal value. And what is one of the crucial problems in the Danish labour market is that the last part is simply not being fulfilled. Why doesn't it? It does not do so because we have a very gender-based labour market, as it says, where there are many professions dominated by one sex. And that is where the male professions simply get a higher salary, even if they, for example, are paid. have the same length of training as the female occupations. It can, for example, be done. be a sosu assistant and a welder, both of whom have a short training and work in physically very stressful jobs, where the welder on average gets significantly more in salary than the sosu assistant does. You could go on like that, for there are many examples. It is simply because the part of the equal pay law called work of equal value has not been properly folded in practice, and we need that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135847	But whether you use one sentence or another or part of the equal pay law, it will be the case that when Mrs Pernille Skipper says that a person is paid less just because she is a woman, the law is broken, and then you have to report the employer to the police. So why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323135912	Well, that's what I just answered. It is simply because the part of the equal pay law called work of equal value has not been properly developed in practice. And one of the things that I think we as legislators should do in here is to define what we mean by it, so that more cases can be brought, for example. on why a female cleaning assistant, who cleans a hospital, in the operating rooms, receives less in salary than a male colleague with a corresponding length of training who is working on cleaning outside. That's because we haven't been properly defined what the phrase "work of the same value" means. And we should. We can start with that together, so the employers can be reported, as Mrs May-Britt Kattrup says.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323140001	Then it got out. And so I must thank Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur for the proposers. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323140023	The debate is open and we start with Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323140038	Thank you. Social democracy is fighting for equal opportunities. We always have. It is the fight against the negative social heritage. It is the fight for free education and for free and equal access to health, and that is the fight for equality. That fight must be fought on many fronts, and we do so on an ongoing basis in the Social Democratic Party. We discussed in the debate just before equal pay, so I do not need to use many words to repeat how we want to reinstate the extended gender-based pay statistics, which the Left Government unfortunately abolished. When it comes to maternity and time with his newborn child, we know that unevenly distributed maternity does not just mean that very many fathers miss the first time with their newborn child. We also know that this is one of the major causes of the pay gap between men and women. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have proposed to equalise the 32 weeks of joint parental leave, so that Mom and Dad have equal opportunities to share leave as they please. Today, all 32 weeks are the starting point of Mom's life. We will change that, so that parents have 16 weeks each, with the opportunity to deliver as many of the 16 weeks to the other parent as you want. I would also like to mention the fight for parental grief. It seems to me that this debate, which is the first such debate for me, is a bit of a bouquet of things we are discussing, and one of those I would like to mention is the struggle for mourning leave to fathers, a struggle that has lasted for years and which we have fought with other good forces against the obvious absurdity that when a couple experience the tragedy of losing an infant, yes, only the mother has been entitled to 14 weeks' leave to deal with the grief. The father has had two weeks' paternity leave and no further entitlement to grief leave. Fortunately, this has now been corrected. These were some of the national statuses, but equality is not just a national agenda. It is also very much international. In the United States, the Trump government has reinstated the so-called Global Gag Rule so that international organisations can no longer receive financial support from the United States if they offer to inform or refer women to abortion. It is a movement that we in Denmark should take a strong stand against, and that is why we, as Social Democrats, are pleased that the government has taken such an active stand here. We are a little less enthusiastic when it comes to the UN's global goals and the government's approach to gender equality. Equality is the world objective no. 5, and here we in the Social Democratic Party are surprised that an indicator has been chosen in Denmark which is concerned with labour market participation, because we in Denmark are already at the forefront of one of the highest employment rates for women. By choosing that particular objective, it has to be said that the government is making such a leap over where the hardest is, and that is too unambitious. Then there is the whole fight for the equality of minorities. The New Danish Women's Battle has a bunch of cool women with immigrant backgrounds themselves called it; the new freedom struggle we call it in the Social Democrat's new aliens' play • dear and important child, many names. We could also understand from the Minister for Gender Equality here a few weeks ago, when we celebrated the Women's Day on 8 March, that the Minister believes that the agenda is crucial, and the Minister also has other colleagues who do not waste an opportunity to subvert against the lack of equality in the ethnic environments. But when that agenda fills so much in the government's words, it just puzzles us that it no longer fills in the government's actions. Because when young girls from ethnic minority communities start school, yes, there are too many of them who start in a Muslim free school instead of an ordinary Danish primary school. What is the proper framework for exercising social control over these girls? Yes, my bid is that one of the places is the Muslim free schools, to which the bourgeois government has now increased the subsidy through several financial laws. So the government's words are in one direction, and their policy is in the opposite direction. If a woman from an ethnic minority environment goes to a shelter because she has been subjected to domestic violence, then all too often she is met by a rejection because of lack of space. Here too, we lack action from the government. Then we have the government's so big ghetto play. A month ago the Danes could see a small army of government ministers moving into the Mjølner Park to present an initiative to combat parallel societies. To put it mildly, it would be obvious if we included the fight against social control, but the government's Minister for Gender Equality did not see among the eight ministers who otherwise attended the press conference. In this respect too, the government is neglecting an opportunity to take up the fight against social control. In the Social Democratic Party we believe it is crucial that the next great equality victory be the right to be free to live the life you dream of, a struggle for and with the many new dancers who share Danish values and who, more than anything else, want to live freely in our society, but who are prevented from doing so by their families and the environments they are part of. That is why we have also proposed a number of initiatives in the fight against negative social control in our motion for a resolution. Specifically, we have proposed that legislation should take into account children and young people, not parents. If the children have told about social control in the home, yes, then they should be able to prevent parents from being informed of it to a greater extent. Therefore, we will give the authorities better opportunity not to involve parents and networks if this is a danger to the child or contrary to the child's best interests. We will also investigate placement in immigrant families. We are concerned that very few children are being placed in immigrant families and that the children who are being placed will typically be very late when they have become teenagers. There are also very few notifications from Muslim free schools. This suggests that the authorities are more reluctant to intervene in immigrant families. We will have done something about this if the arrow points back to the Danish authorities. As a third step, we have proposed several exit programmes established. If, as a young person with an immigrant background, you are subjected to social control, yes, then as a society we owe it to ourselves to stand ready with help and support to break out. Among other things, it can be done. • a new home, an offer of training, further training or a job, a mentor. In addition, the young people most affected must be better protected, for example by receiving an attack alarm or changing their identity. We have proposed better access to shelters and that there should be enough resources to carry out the task of the centres to protect those women who need help so that they do not end up in the hands of the men and families who have abused them. Finally, we will fight for the principle that religious considerations must give way to democracy and equality. Of course it must be the case in Denmark that we take account of each other, but consideration goes too far when sex education is adapted to a religious minority or when a male lifeguard is not allowed to be present during swimming lessons for girls. For social democracy, it is crucial that it is not the individual institutions and public servants who have to stand alone in the fight for democracy to always be the chief religion. The fight against social control is a fight for equality, perhaps the most important one we have at the moment, and we Social Democrats will pursue it across resorts and behind the big words of the government, so hopefully here for the annual progress debate on gender equality next year we will see that we have come much further. And then there are many other important issues that I have not been able to reach, both from the report and from the great debate on society, but unfortunately time is limited, so let them be the words of the Social Democrats for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323140802	There will be a few more words, because there are questions from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323140808	Thank you. I think it is actually just clear because I think I misunderstood the rapporteur. It sounded as if Mrs Astrid Krag said that the Social Democratic Party would fight for both mother and father to have 32 weeks of parental leave, but according to my knowledge, mother is entitled to 32 weeks and father is entitled to 32 weeks each, and they are entitled to 32 weeks of maternity allowance together, which they decide for themselves how to distribute among themselves. So I just want to know what Mrs. Astrid Krag was gonna fight for there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323140846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323140848	Yeah, maybe I formulated the mess. I'm not going to deny that. I can, of course, go back and see that in the minutes, but it is the joint leave which is today allocated to the mother. We believe there should be 16 weeks for the mother and 16 weeks for the father. Then we must be able to distribute them as freely as we like, but there is a great deal of automation in the way things are going today. I recognize that myself. I've had three kids and I've been in two mommy groups and I've got lots of friends who've been in the same thing. By making this change, we will make sure that we take this discussion in the families about how best to distribute what we share today. I hope this was clarified by the Socialist proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323140931	Apparently not, because the word has been asked to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323140934	No, because I still don't understand it. It sounds as if Mrs Astrid Krag is saying that it is the barshell that must be distributed. Is that the down payment? You can share the money as you like. So I still haven't quite understood what the problem is in it. If it is because they are automatically just transferred to the mother and then you have to divide them from there yourself, then I actually agree that you should make an equal distribution payout or you should ask who should have them and how do you want them. So if that's what Mrs Astrid Krag's point is, then we're not that far apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323141015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323141017	But it is incredibly nice and touching if we can reach agreement here in the first few minutes of this debate on something proposed by the Social Democratic Party. I'd just like to sign for that and tell Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup that it was great.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323141029	This is how we proceed in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323141040	Thank you. Nearly a week ago, some of us attended the United Nations Women's Commission in New York. We were represented by a strong Danish delegation, including our Minister for Gender Equality, Mrs Karen Ellemann. Denmark used e.g. its voice to highlight women's right to control their own body and the importance of having sex education. Every day, 800 women die worldwide because of pregnancy and childbirth. There is also a great myth formation, both in developing countries and countries in the Western world, where many believe that because you teach young people about safe sex, they also have a previous sexual debut. We must dare to talk about sexuality and bodies, including with countries where the view of women's sexuality is different. I'm one of them. really happy that we also have Week Sex at home in Denmark, which Sex & Society stands for. An example of this is also the virgin's question, which our Minister for Gender Equality also raised in his speech to the Women's Commission in New York. Thank you. As far as I can see, that too attracted a great deal of applause. A lot of people have learned that women have a virginia that jumps the first time they have sex. Women are killed around the world if you can't show blood stained sheets after the wedding night. And that is, of course, a myth that we must fight. Fortunately, the international focus on women's rights has been increased. The metoo movement has also contributed to increased focus. In Denmark we have fought for very many years for equality, and it is incredibly important that everyone has equal opportunities regardless of gender. We must safeguard the right of individuals to express themselves and to unfold. Equality means that everyone regardless of gender, sexuality or gender identity must have the freedom to be who they are, even when the subject of some is a little too sensitive. Does this mean that we do not have challenges in the area of equality in Denmark? No, it doesn't. I recently saw a news report where a journalist had gone to Vollsmose at a café where men and women are not sitting together. The reporter asks if he can sit down, and the woman on TV says, and I quote: yes, you can be here because you're a white person, so you probably don't know any better. She says that and laughs, but quickly follows up: No, technically you can't be here. Women must be here, and men must be there, she says, pointing up at the front of the cafe. Men and women don't sit together because that's our law and that's our rules. In Denmark we do not have laws and regulations which prohibit men and women from sitting together in cafes, and as a country we should not find ourselves in parallel societies, negative social control, suppression of gender or reeducational trips to children when they become a little too Danish. We, as a country, must refrain from doing so. We should not accept that there are parallel societies in Denmark where equality has been put out of effect. Immigrants and descendants, including young people, must also face up to parental standards and values themselves, and we as a society must support them by insisting on debating and informing about their opportunities and rights in Denmark. We do not want religious speciality. I also still remember the television show... the mosques behind the veil... where we saw a massive repression... where women were told not to work with men or take a job. Many of these women are subject to religious and negative social control, which stems from religious leaders in mosques around the environment. More people are advised not to stay for Danish, and this can have fatal consequences for many of the young people living with a split between two sets of rules. This leads to family conflicts and means that many young people have to flee their families. In Denmark, we have established top secret places. RED-Safehouse, a self-owned institution, operates two safe and hidden locations for young people fleeing honor-related conflicts, including negative social control, honor-related violence, forced marriages or threats to them. There is help in Danish society. In Denmark, you have the freedom to choose your partner and to be open about your sexual orientation or gender identity. It's 59%. of immigrant women living in an area with a high concentration of residents with immigrant background who feel limited in choosing their own girlfriend or spouse, and almost four out of ten immigrants and descendants believe that the husband is the natural head of the family. Among people of Danish origin, it is one in ten. And that's way too many. Violence in close relations is something that we have had a great deal of political focus on, and we therefore also made an overall agreement and got 65.6 million set aside here. kr. to the effort in 2017. And that effort is something we must follow up on. The Equality Committee also convened the Minister for Justice in consultation in January on psychological violence, and the Minister for Justice promised at the conciliation that there would also be a bill to make a separate paragraph in relation to psychological violence. And an interministerial working group has been set up that is in progress with a process which, according to the Ministry of Justice, is expected to be completed in 2019. There is a great deal of support across the parties in the Folketing to strengthen efforts also on psychological violence, and we have also recently adopted common rules, as has already been said, on grief leave, where we were given funding under the Finance Act, so that fathers who lose a child within the 32nd week of birth can also receive grief leave. Violence is one of the major consequences for the victim of violence, and not just the physical one; it is also the psychic, as I have already said, precisely the invisible violence. And there are many forms of violence. There is also sexual violence, material violence, financial violence, and this is something we have and must continue to focus on. Trafficking in human beings is also a major challenge and there is a need for a stable and flexible effort that can be continuously adapted to developments. That is why, within the framework, including the fight against trafficking in human beings, we have set aside funds for 2019-2021, and there we have already established an action plan. In Denmark, 731 people have been evaluated by the Danish authorities during the period 2007-2017 and most of the victims come from Nigeria, Romania and Thailand. 87 per cent. of the estimated victims of trafficking in human beings in Denmark are women and almost 24.9 million people are victims of forced labour, including trafficking in human beings worldwide. And then there are all the dark figures that we know nothing about. We have also had a major debate on the women's crisis centres; among other things: We have discussed whether there are enough seats. And this is also an issue on which we have addressed the Committee on Gender Equality and on which we have had consultations. We must ensure that there is sufficient help for the victims of violence, and we must not forget the men either. There are also 13,000 men who are exposed annually to physical or mental violence by a current or former partner, and most of them do not seek help. And they don't all necessarily make use of their networks. This is also something that we have a great deal of attention to in the Danish People's Party. This is among other things. A major factor for us is that the men's crisis centres we have are also really equal to the women's crisis centres, also in relation to the financing of shelters. Because if we look at the Services Act, we can see that it says in black and white that a municipal council has to offer temporary residence to women and children who have been subjected to violence and threats, but so there is nothing about men. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party do not think this is fair. In any case, we have raised the problem on several occasions in relation to the pool of rates, and that is something we will continue to do, of course. We hope that at some point we will be able to agree that shelters for men should be equated with women's crisis centres. There are a lot of things to be done, and there is also a lot of work to be done. Among other things: We are also now waiting for a hearing on blood donation in relation to homosexuals. We have had sexual harassment on the agenda, and I think it is very good that, although we are so different from each other, we can meet in the Committee on Gender Equality and agree to raise some important issues and work on out of there. And, of course, I look forward to continuing with that. And I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323141940	That's it. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Mads Birded. Mrs. Pernille Skipper is on her way up here, but it may be a dream Mrs. Pernille Skipper has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323142002	Thank you for the floor. This is my first debate as equal opportunities rapporteur, and in this respect I would like to thank the Minister for a very good one. I am actually very proud to have come on such an ambitious team, both in terms of equality work at home and abroad, and one of my highlights so far on that journey was to sit at the UN and hear the Minister's talk about virginity. It was important that it was said and it has already given way to such a heavy system as the United Nations system. So this means something. Today's statement, I think, gives a clear insight into the strong efforts we are making, with the Minister in the lead, in the field of equality. We have come incredibly far in terms of equality in Denmark, and today equal opportunities count as one of the most important principles of Danish self-understanding. I guess that's what we are and what we have as a basic principle. It is the backbone of our DNA that with the Constitution of World War I, in which we gave women the right to vote, we took the most important step in our country's recent history towards becoming who we are today. However, equal opportunities must also weigh heavily in vulnerable residential areas, where the proportion of residents of other ethnic origin is high, and they do so far from today. Most parents' highest wish is for their child to be healthy. In some cultures, it just doesn't matter whether it's a boy or a girl. Here it is believed that girls are worth less, and the boys in these cultures have different conditions in those countries that do not see it that way. If you look at the employment rate of women of other ethnic origin, you become very sad. We must make it absolutely clear to them that we do not accept parallel societies where women are oppressed and where girls in particular are subjected to social control of their families. There is not much equality in the shadow of a burka or a niqab. In Denmark, we are born with equal opportunities regardless of gender and sexual orientation or gender identity. It is a fundamental right that cannot be graded according to religious or cultural beliefs. I am therefore pleased that the government will continue its efforts to combat negative social control and lack of equality in minority environments. This is one of the issues that is most of my personal concern, even though there is a whole bouquet of them. Fortunately, there are several young people with minority backgrounds who are interfering in the debate and saying 'no'. Our first task is therefore to support these young people and to inform them of their rights, so that hopefully they will have the courage to face up to the outdated standards that their parents represent and the values that limit them from living their lives and getting the personal freedom that we others take for granted here at home. Another thing that is out of date is the compensation for victims of sexual harassment. The extent of the whole Methodo movement has helped us to focus on this area where we are witnessing that the problem of sexual harassment is far too great, that is, that what should be natural, that of living and working in environments free from sexual harassment, is not everyone's favour. When I became aware of this, I made it a personal objective to increase the compensation for victims of sexual harassment, and if I saw a highlight in the United Nations with the Minister for Gender Equality, then I had another when I sat in that consultation and heard the Minister for Employment say that something would be done about it immediately. It turned out that the compensation for victims of sexual harassment has not changed in the last 25 years. The compensation is therefore in no way in line with the price paid as a victim. Against this background, it is good that women feel that her rights are being taken seriously by a blue government. The compensation for sexual harassment is sometimes charged as low as DKK 8,000. When you talk to one of them... HK, you can be informed that a number of settlements are being reached in this area, and often you hear the story, which may be difficult to verify completely, that there are many revenants among these settlements. This is because, I believe, the compensation is so low that it is ridiculously low and obviously has no preventive effect. I am glad that we in the government are in the process of ending the far too low compensation for women, but also men who are subjected to sexual abuse at their workplace. Despite the problems of sexual harassment in the workplace, which hopefully will be put to an end in the future, Denmark is one of the more equal countries in the world, among the most equal at all. Freedom and freedom are fundamental values in our society, and I know that many find our values enviable. I understand that, and that is why it is important that we do not take them for granted, but fight to safeguard them. In my dialogue with many on my short journey so far, I have always met with understanding whether I sat in KVINFO and talked about it or over with the Minister for Gender Equality or with HK. Anyone who's an actor in this field wants the same thing. It is not always that we want to use the same means, but one has the clear feeling that we want to go in the same place. It's so incredibly important. That is why it is also important that we use our good reputation and reputation to fight for women's rights and gender equality globally. It's not just at home that there's a job to do. Like many of you sitting in this Chamber today, I have just come back from the United Nations Women's Commission, as I mentioned, and the days in New York have only confirmed me in the importance of Denmark's international commitment to women's rights. At the same time, the trip has given me renewed hope for the women of the world. As the will to strengthen gender equality efforts globally has been quite clear in this regard. This political will is also to be found in the 17 World Goals of the United Nations, which provide the framework for global development efforts up to 2030 with as many as five objectives of equality. It looks good, at least as ambition. I also hope that this will become a reality. Although we have come a long way in the area of equality at home, I recognise that we are not yet in the goal. Nevertheless, I believe that the statement is an indication that we are heading in the right direction. However, we must never forget that there are also women in the Community whose rights are not what they should be. We must not fail them either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323142737	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. And then we reached Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, in exactly the right order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323142753	Thank you. It's only because I'm trying to get used to all of us that Enhedslisten is, of course, going to be bigger than the Left next time, isn't it? As last year, I would like to begin this debate by congratulating the Minister on his statement on the perspective and action plan, because I share the basic analysis which emerges and which, in short, is that the gender differences which result in inequality are to a large extent cultural and historical in nature. the gendered choice of education, the gender-based labour market, the unequal distribution of maternity leave, etc. etc. It is all the result of certain ideas about gender that limit us all, but which still largely shape the society that we are part of today. But when we say that it is culturally linked to the fact that there is an unequal position between men and women, it is of course because it is so important that we make it clear time and again that this inequality is man-made and therefore something that we can do something about, and that is so important. So praise for that. At the same time, however, I would like to say that although gender is a cultural phenomenon, we must not just think that gender inequality is something that can be corrected by dialogue meetings and information campaigns alone. Of course, debate and discussion are important, including in the work on equality, perhaps particularly in the work on equality, but there are also some economic and some structural problems which we have a lot of political tools to solve and which we have not yet solved. And we should do that. So although I share the analysis on which the statement is based, I also think that there are some shortcomings. And what we are doing in these rapporteur's speeches is pointing out the things you think are missing. So I have praise for what lies there, but what do I think is missing? Two things I would like to talk about. One is unequal pay. We have just had a debate on this, but I still think I will take another round. And the other is violence against women. The first is the problem of equal pay. In fact, the statement here does not talk at all about unequal pay. There is talk of the pay gap. It has begun to be called "the choice of job, the length of maternity leave, or which is almost magically inexplicable, as is also said. I think we should stick to calling it unequal pay, because that is what it is. It's an economic inequality between genders. A great deal has been said about this, both in this debate last year, but also in general at the moment, because collective bargaining is under way; then we talk a lot about unequal pay. And it seems that we are about to be there at least here at Christiansborg where we agreed that unequal pay is a fact. This applies both to those who are in the gender-based labour market, but also to those who are very often in individual jobs. And although the Minister points out in the statement that a large part of the unequal pay is due to the imbalance in the distribution of maternity leave, new research also shows that women lose around 20%. of their living income per year; We must bear in mind that it is not inexplicable and that it is not just a difference in pay but an inequality in pay, and that it can unfortunately be explained by gender. In the debate last year, some concrete tools were sought for overcoming this inequality. I think that some of the tools are right in front of us. We have just discussed the one: an equal pay pool which could correct some of the inequality in the public sector. I also think that the Icelandic equal pay model, as it has been called, whereby companies are required to prove that they are actually paying equal pay, is something that should be inspired by. Then I think that equal maternity rights between mother and father are something we neglect to talk about. Today, we are already earmarking three months for the mother, but the father does not have the same right. You should give equal rights to mom and dad. It would also give fathers much more opportunity to be part of the early days of their children's lives. These are just some of the examples. Gender-divided pay statistics for companies, which are also slightly smaller than those which are being required today, are a proposal that the Social Democrats mentioned earlier today, and I agree with that. So there are a lot of things that we can do politically to deal with the issue of equal pay, and that is why I find it a little difficult to understand why we are not getting started soon. And I also get a little worried when we start talking about it as something that can't be explained or something that's just a difference. This is a real inequality, and it is very explanatory and also something that we can change. The second thing I would like to talk about, which I think is missing from the statement by the Minister, is violence against women. And then I would like to re-problematize a shift that has happened in the way we talk about the problem. It is like walking away from talking about partner violence as a gender-specific problem, in other words, a problem that affects women much harder than men, to start talking about it as a problem that is not at all about gender. I mean, there has actually been such an increased focus on men and boys who are subjected to violence. When I point that out, it is not because I am going to try to claim that there are no men and boys who are subjected to violence, because it is there and they need help. And I would also like to stress that, like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I very much agree that it is important that we have enough men's crisis centres and seats on them, no doubt about that. However, I am concerned that we do not mention the gender aspect of the problem of partner violence, because it is far more women than men who are subjected to violence and the violence to which women are subjected are also much more dangerous than the violence to which men are subjected and, unfortunately, far more often fatal. And when you don't talk about the sex side, I think it muddles the image of what partner violence is for a size. It is not mentioned in the report that 61 per cent of people live in rural areas. In addition, there is a need for the national crisis centres to refuse to do so because of lack of space. It is a very specific problem that is crying out for action here and now, especially because we know that it is at the moment that a woman is actually trying to leave a violent partner that she is in serious danger of life. The last thing I would like to mention in this connection is the report by GREVIO, which was published in November last year. It is an independent expert group that monitors the countries that have ratified the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women. It is a convention ratified by Denmark in 2014. Your report is not mentioned at all in the Minister's statement, and otherwise I would think that was quite obvious when it comes to taking stock of equality in Denmark. However, in addition to the proposal to include psychological violence in the penal code, the government should be highly praised for this, ignoring the Minister's statement, in fact, all the other recommendations there are. So I would just like to ask the Minister the two questions: will the Minister use specific political tools at some point in order to ensure equal pay? And will the Minister initiate initiatives so that Denmark will meet our international commitments under the Istanbul Convention in the future? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323143635	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323143650	Thank you. Denmark is one of the most equal countries in the world, and I am very pleased about that. It is very important that everyone has access to education, jobs, the public space and all the things that we in Denmark take as a matter of course. You have to be able to decide for yourself whether you want to go to leisure activities, choose your own job, boyfriend and spouse. And equal access must apply regardless of gender, ethnicity, religious beliefs or sexual orientation. Equality and personal freedom are basic values in a democratic society, and everyone who lives in Denmark should respect these values. And fortunately so do the vast majority. Yet there are some areas where we see problems. The Lgbti environment does not always enjoy proper respect from the surrounding society. That is why it is good and important that we take action in this area. I myself have been very active in securing the rights of trannesses in the treatment system, and right now Denmark is taking the lead in moving the treatment code in the WHO system, so the tranned are no longer under the code of mental suffering, which is quite absurd that they have ever done. And we will also have the rights of the staff members in the health care manual corrected by the Ministry of Health. In ethnic minority environments there is negative social control and lack of equality. These are not Danish, democratic values, and it is therefore important that ambitious efforts in this area continue. And good initiatives are under way. Gender equality should not only focus on women's rights. In Denmark there are areas where men are worse off than women; especially in relation to children, family and divorce, men have a rather poor legal position. Among other things, it can be done. emphasised that the children's check is automatically sent to Mom, and Dad is not even informed about it. And when it comes to divorces and parental rights, there is also a wrong relationship. With regard to maternity benefits, which we talked about before with Mrs Pernille Skipper, we can talk about how they are paid. But I do not know if Mrs Pernille Skipper was talking about earmarked maternity leave. I and the Liberal Alliance are certainly not in favour of that. Equality is also to respect the decisions that people make. For some to be offended, it is true that the woman or man whom one feels has been offended actually feels offended. In some cases, it seems that some women feel offended on behalf of other women. Good examples: the kissing girls in the Tour de France and the number girls in Formula 1, who are now being dropped because other people think it is degrading and discriminatory. But in reality, you make the woman a victim, and you talk down to her and expose her as weak, so weak, that she can't quit and make her own choices. I think this is discriminatory and condescending, and it has nothing to do with the fight for women's rights. For what was the woman's right to decide for herself? It's a bad idea to play smart on behalf of other women. I think the individual kissing girl or the number-girl can find out for herself what's best for her. And you can be a strong and a free woman and at the same time want to give out a cheek kiss or show off your body. With regard to the virgin, it is therefore inconceivable first of all that it has been possible to imagine a whole world, that there is a virgin membrane. This is completely incomprehensible. But that is not at all the most important thing in this matter. The most important thing in this case is that women can be killed if they have had sex before marriage, that it can bring shame on an entire family that a woman has had sex before marriage. And by the way, I can't quite understand how it is that girls aren't allowed to have sex before marriage, but that men are allowed. I don't know where those girls are supposed to come from. Because either they are before marriage or they are married. So I guess it's kind of hard. But that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144159	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Skipper, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144204	I would just like to ask what kind of rules the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance believes are unequal between men and women in divorce law. And I ask so specifically because I myself and a whole bunch of others are currently negotiating the rules in the area of parental responsibility, and we keep bumping into this myth that there should be a gender inequality in those rules. It's actually not very encouraging that there's that myth. So, to be sure that the myth is not passed on from the parliamentary platform, I would just like us to know exactly what the inequality should consist of, as Mrs May-Britt Kattrup refers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144254	Now it is Mrs Laura Lindahl who is the social rapporteur and who has the matter we are talking about here. I do not know the precise paragraph or legislation, but I think it is an entirely common view, as you see over and over again that parental rights automatically fall to the woman, the mother, unless she is almost a criminal or has other very serious problems. Well, the man is in a difficult situation with regard to parental rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144334	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144335	It is simply factually wrong. It is simply factually wrong what the rapporteur says on the platform. And it promotes a picture that we have legislation that is not the one that really exists. The law of parental responsibility is quite straightforward. It's completely gender-neutral, complete and complete. Mom and Dad shared custody in Denmark from the beginning. They have equal rights to the child, the child has equal rights to both parents, and both parents have the opportunity, in conflict situations, to be given full custody or residence, or whatever it is that is being discussed. It is simply wrong what the rapporteur is saying and I would actually ask the rapporteur not to do so until the rapporteur can prove his claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144432	You have to keep to your speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144434	If it is true what Mrs Pernille Skipper says, then I regret to have said something wrong here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144442	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144446	Thank you very much. It was actually just a short question to the rapporteur's comment on kissing girls and that it was problematic that they should not exist anymore. I have to ask whether the rapporteur recognizes that it is in this respect that women are sexualised and objectiveised and that this is the reason why they do not want to reinforce stereotypes of this kind anymore. There was also one of the kissing girls who had been fucked in the back of one of the bike riders, just as high-paid project managers in today's Denmark are called meeting decorations as women, instead of being recognized for who they are and their person. And it is in this respect that the kissers have been removed. Does the rapporteur not consider this to be a real intention?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144544	I do not believe that we should belittle women or any other people, men, for that matter; we should not belittle each other in any way. But I believe that women in a modern society are strong enough to decide for themselves whether they want to be kissing girls or number girls or page 9 girls or whatever. I believe that we women in a well-developed society with education can decide for themselves whether we want to show off in this way. And I think it is demeaning that others should decide that it is discriminatory and that it is not possible, as a woman, to make that decision. So I do not need the rapporteur to stand and decide for me what is demeaning for me to do or not. I think I can take a stand on that myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144648	That is a perfectly fair and legitimate position on the part of the rapporteur. I need as a man and as a father not to amplify some stereotypes to my daughter, so she experiences that the best thing she can be used for in relation to a bike race that is already male-dominated is to stand up and kiss a man and get fucked in the butt. I don't need to amplify these stereotypes for my daughter. So I also hope that the rapporteur recognises that there are some who stand up for women's rights and believe that they are entitled to it according to the position they have in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144722	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144722-2	First of all, I do not think that it is women's rights that are guaranteed if they say that women are not allowed to be kiss girls if they want to be. It is not to uphold women's rights. Because if a woman wants to, she has to have the right. That's one thing. The second point is that I understand with regard to the rapporteur's children that you can have some thoughts about it. There it is then the responsibility and task of parents to raise their children to tackle all the impressions that you will have in a world. There are lots of temptations, there are lots of idols that you have to learn that you can't look like and live up to, and there are lots of things you have to learn to relate to. And that's a parent's job and not a state's job.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144815	Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144817	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned the myth of the virginity, and I think it is actually a good credit to give to the Minister for having gone into that discussion too. I think that the reason why it is also a very interesting example is, in fact, that it is a myth that has managed to internalise completely into women themselves, so that women themselves have also believed that there was a virgin membrane. At the same time, the rapporteur says that we should not judge women, because they must decide for themselves what they want to say 'yes' and 'no' to. But then it's just some of those sex stereotypes, some of those myths about what a real woman is, that even strong women don't opt out, don't problematize some of the things that are going on. So I would just like the rapporteur to reply to this: does the rapporteur think that, in such a way, women can never need to see for themselves that they are part of some gender stereotypes and that we should help each other break with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144928	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323144928-2	In a modern Western world where we are not oppressed and where we are well educated, I think we are able to see those things ourselves and make such decisions ourselves. The virgin myth is something that has existed in, I don't know how many hundred years, almost always, and it is nice that we now get so far and become so enlightened that we are told that there is no such thing as that. No one can be blamed for the fact that we have been scientifically deceived. And that is not the worst thing in all this talk about virginity, but it is at all that you have been able to tell women that they will be killed if they have sex before marriage. That's the most important point in this. The second is that it is just unbelievable that it has been possible to imagine a whole world, that there is a virgin membrane when it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145041	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145042	Well, exactly that myth also exists in the well-lit Western world. That's what's very interesting about that talk. It may not have had the same dramatic consequences, but nevertheless it is a notion of women that still exists. And yes, it's many, many years old. It is the myth, the idea, the expectation that women's body is an object that one can assess; that one can appreciate or not appreciate; that one can access, whether the woman herself invites to it or not. In fact, it is also a performance that has lived for many years. So is it the rapporteur's view that it is up to the individual woman to do away with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145131	I am not quite sure that I understand the question correctly. After all, we have general information and we have a modern civil society where we have to be equal and where we respect each other. Of course, we have to tell you that. I'm sorry, I don't quite understand the question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145159	Thank you. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145203	I am not going to follow up Mrs Trine Torp's question, but on some of what the rapporteur says here, namely that we have a modern stable society in which we are well-educated and so on. That sounds very good, and I wish it were the case that there was the same freedom for everyone in this country, but I would like to ask here in the first round whether the rapporteur does not recognise that there are some subcultures, there are some parallel societies where it is not, and where girls and boys are not worth much and not the same, where there are some young people today who are not allowed to make their own choices in their lives, neither the big choices, education, spouse, whether you have to leave home, nor the small choices: what music must you listen to, what kind of clothes must you wear, what kind of friends you must have. Does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur not recognise that this is partly the case? So despite this talk about the modern stable society where we are well educated, there are some pockets, some areas where the freedom that we others may take for granted is not all gained. Does the rapporteur, if the rapporteur acknowledges that it exists and is nodding, not also think that it is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145308	Clearly, as I said in my rapporteur's speech. I said that in ethnic minority environments there is negative social control and lack of equality. These are Danish democratic values, which is why it is important that ambitious efforts in this area continue. I also said in my speech that the values that we have in Denmark, democratic equality values, respect for each other, must be respected by people living in Denmark. It is clearly a problem if they do not, and that is why the effort in this area is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145348	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145349	Then I just have a follow-up question for it. That was also one of the points I made in my own rapporteur's speech. If we now recognise this from the rapporteur, and if we look at some of the figures that are actually contained in the Minister's statement, where we can see that the problems of social control, in relation to being able to choose boyfriends and spouses themselves, are practically what it says here, is being reinforced where there is a very high concentration of people with minority backgrounds who subscribe to these positions, how can the rapporteur defend the fact that the rapporteur's party, the rapporteur's government, has not only once but several times increased support for Muslim free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145430	Now I am not a school or education rapporteur, so I do not know the details of those things and do not want to go into them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145444	I think we should try to stick to the subject here and not go far beyond what the subject is really about. There's no more comments, so here's to Mr. Knox. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323145457	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you to the Minister for Equal Opportunities Statement. I would like to start by commending the elements that we see as positive. First of all, it is positive that the report recognises a wide range of problems in the field of equal opportunities in Denmark, on which we have a political obligation to act, and I was pleased to read that it is recognised that many of these problems relate to norms and traditions and identity awareness. Because that means helping and trying to solve the problems of inequality in society, in the labour market, in education and in the family. And when we do, we have to pay particular attention to the fact that it is precisely norms and realisms that are the hallmarks of these dynamics. And we also need to look at ourselves here in the Danish Parliament in terms of an inclusive debate which I sometimes think is absent and which requires equality rather than marginalisation or alienation. But it is also about understanding the framework for how the Folketing should support development with increased equality. Information and an open debate are absolutely necessary, but I think we can be more progressive. I think we can say that Denmark has come a long way. There is broad agreement on this. But we are also a long way from our goal. It's a long way to go. That is why the report lacks a little more action-oriented and active objectives as to what it is that better can be done to resolve the issues mentioned in the report. When the statement talks about equality in Denmark, I find that there is a very large focus on the individual, and I believe that the issues mainly take place in the cross-field between individual and structure. Here in the Folketing we have a privileged opportunity to address precisely these structural challenges and the conditions that either extend our possibilities very much. Our democratic dialogue and opportunities for progressive legislation are a powerful tool on the way to the equality that we all want. And I think we should be much better at using that tool. In this context, I hope that the Minister and the other parties will reconsider, for example. the motion for a resolution put forward by the Alternative in this area, which deals with an equal pay pool. I am convinced that an equal pay pool will make a big difference in terms of ensuring real equality and, of course, guaranteeing the equal pay that we all want in the Danish labour market. I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that there is no discrimination in the labour market, and that calls for more action. In the alternative, we therefore believe that inspiration should be given to the Icelandic model, where companies are obliged to demonstrate that they do not discriminate against wages. On the whole, we must raise the level of ambition when we see that, despite flexible maternity legislation, men are still taking an infinitely small part of the barracks. And there may be several reasons for this, but there is a lack of incentives, and for many it is also a question of the fact that it is abnormal and that it does not respond. Therefore, we should undoubtedly test earmarked maternity as a tool for normalizing, that fathers also take maternity with their child. In fact, the National Research Centre for Welfare has conducted studies which show that earmarked maternity has a normative effect and that in this way it normalizes that fathers take leave. It strengthens both rights and opportunities for women as well as men, and that is why the alternative is that earmarked maternity is the way forward, and let us certainly get an attempt going. I think that a good engine in the area of equality would be that there would be more willingness to test new ideas and initiatives and listen to professionals and organisations working on the issues every day. I know that the Minister for Gender Equality is already practicing this, and it is important to talk about the knowledge perspective in the area of gender equality at all. Yes: we need much more research and knowledge in the field of gender and gender equality, and we need issues and agendas to be developed and more perspectives to be made available. It is good to have new knowledge that can enlighten and stimulate the debate. We think we already do. However, it is crucial that we create a factual debate and are critical of the way in which we address our challenges today. It is therefore a pity that, for example, knowledge of violence is presented in relationships that are misleading. It is important to examine the extent of violence against men in relationships in Denmark, and this should not be done through an American literature study. The debate on gender equality should not be cleared of personal experiences and accounts. We've seen how the metoo movement has affected us all. It is important that we take the evidence seriously and reflect on how we can use the insights to make it safer for people not to be subjected to harassment and violations. And that is why it is also extremely important that the conversation is not about what the offended can do in the future so as not to be offended, what we also call victimblaming. We need to talk much more about power in public spaces and in the workplace, where we believe it is a management responsibility. It is therefore also positive that the various social partners are involved in the consultation on sexual harassment in the workplace, as well as in the educational institutions. The unhealthy culture of violations of rusture and in the study environment in general also bears witness to too little knowledge and conversation and, in particular, too little action in this area. I think we can talk about personal management responsibility here, which is why it is important that we are also taught gender and sexuality and diversity and norm criticism from the day-care institution and all the way up through the education system. Today, for example, it is not mandatory for a teacher student to take these modules in their subjects. It is only voluntary, and I think we should consider making this compulsory. Violations take place not only in the workplace or in the public domain, but also in the home in particular. It is therefore positive that the report states that everyone must be safe in public spaces and in the home, and that there must be a focus on violence in close relationships and psychological violence, where more knowledge is desirable. But there is also a need for more funding. I have the impression that more actors in this area are more in demand for more shelters, for protection, free psychological assistance and basic operating resources instead of shorter project-based support funds. Knowledge and prevention are crucial, and we must not forget the extremely vulnerable people who, in a life crisis today, do not always receive the necessary help. And this is true whether it is to get out of the violence, or to cope with living as a minority in Denmark, whether it is based on sexuality, gender, race or disability. And when we talk about vulnerable groups, it is important to talk to them and not about them. This is particularly true for people with ethnic minority backgrounds. I fully recognise that there are major problems with negative social control, which have a negative impact on girls and women's perceptions and opportunities. But when I read the statement, I cannot help thinking that there is also a parallel to what majority people experience, in line with increased digitisation in terms of perfection culture and limiting standards and ideals for body and behavior. But all these mechanisms are part of the same structures of oppression, where they overlap at different levels. That is also what can be called intersectionality. In recognition of this, the minority woman will experience more barriers to living out her full potential in Denmark in comparison with a majority woman. And this is true not only in her own environment, but also in the Danish environment. We must take this seriously and try to remedy it with concrete initiatives, for example. have normative education and other knowledge provision in educational establishments and at work. But, for example, if you do... I do not really see any use in stigmatizing communities such as parallel societies living in so-called ghettos. It is important that we show solidarity and consider the fight to be equality as a joint project and not as something that is divided between them and us. This also applies to work on global equality, with a particular focus on trafficking in human beings. Here I have to repeat that it is positive that the statement provides for more information, but it is also symptom treatment. Again, we need to deal with and confront the unequal structures that allow trafficking in human beings. Here I think we should look at how we deal with the many refugees who are trapped in a vacuum and a life crisis every day. When faced with a refugee crisis, it is also something for which we have a responsibility, because it is a crisis in Denmark and in the European Union that we are not solidarity with people in need and do not show solidarity with other EU countries about a quota system. It is a crisis that has not only been triggered locally but has also been triggered by free trade barriers, tax evasion, labour exploitation, exploitation of resources, overuse and increased greenhouse gas emissions. All these factors contribute to the vulnerability of even more people to trafficking in human beings, slave-like child labour and the latest developments in the trafficking of slaves among people in Libya. In conclusion, it may well be that we do not agree in the Folketing that all the concrete tools need to be used to create more equality. But let us finally agree to expand the framework, dare a little more and try out new things, listen, act and be more solidarity across Denmark, but also globally. Because there's so much to win for all of us. Diversity not only strengthens our bottom line; it also strengthens our humanity. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323150530	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Mrs. Marianne Jelved, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323150545	Democracy is based on equality, and I usually use the following picture: every cross on the ballot slip has the same weight as the other crosses. And you can think about that a little bit. But this has not always been the case. In 1849 we were given the Constitution, and then it was only men, and it was only those men who had a household that they were responsible for, so they had employees in their breads who had the right to vote. Only in 1915 did women have the right to vote, which caused a woman to criticise this upheaval in society, and she said that now her husband had 2 votes to use. Oh, yeah, that was then! In Denmark too, it took a long time to have a real democracy. The first sentence of Article 1 of the Universal Declaration states: "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. ▪ The Universal Declaration came into being in 1948, and it also has relevant natural declarations. But we also know that one is democracy and that one is the Universal Declaration, another is the development of societies all over the world. Progress is being made, but there is a long way to go. That is why it is also important that we in the Folketing focus on equality. Personally, I would, for example. appreciate very much that men and women each took their half of the maternity leave. In comparison with other people's conditions, it can be said that maternity leave may be in the class of luxury problems, but I do disagree with that, because Denmark can also become a pioneer country in such an area if the danger of a much longer leave changes its habits and sensitivity to children, as we know will happen in the event that they are responsible for the children for a longer period of time when the children are very young. It will also affect education, it will change the world, it will promote equal pay and equality in society, and it does not matter what actions characterise society and our communities. Another point I would like to mention in this context is the major challenges we face with violence in society. It is a disgrace to our society that an increasing number of people are being subjected to violence of different kinds, and it is certainly women and children who are being subjected to it, but it is also men. As far back as I can remember at all, we have tried and tried to do something about it, but progress has not really been made in this area. On the contrary, the number of women affected by violence has actually increased in the time I have been in Parliament, at least according to the statements we have received. We have also tried to do something about child abuse, but children who are victims of abuse are still away, and it is exposed and punished, and compensation is paid. Each of the ten Rebild children received a compensation of DKK 450,000, and this in itself is a very high compensation, which is also an indication that it is very serious abuse that the children have been subjected to neglect by society, authorities, municipalities, neighbors, etc.; it should simply not take place in an open society such as the Danish one. And allow me to say that there are a lot of people who are responsible for this anyway. But there are also a great many areas in which we must give priority, and I am perfectly clear about that, and the whole report today also shows all the areas that the Minister for Gender Equality has taken forward and highlighted with facts and description of what we can see is needed. I have then chosen to point out that there is a long way to go before Article 1 of the Universal Declaration has been brought into the world: that all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. That sounds really banal and straight out of the road, and it is after all so difficult to get it implemented. I have also chosen to focus on violence and abuse against children, women and men. We should make a massive effort to combat that violence. Progress should be made, i.e.: a clear reduction in violence against others. So I will end by signing off to the Minister for the statement. It is a very good statement, it is full of information, and it also points to the things we know we should do something about and which are needed. However, I have allowed myself to make a proposal, and this is a proposal which I well know takes more time and costs more effort, but perhaps one should nevertheless try to select just one or two of the areas which are now mentioned in the statement and which it is natural to include in the statement. It ends with writing - and now I quote from what is at the very end - about violence, which mentions a whole series of things that are happening: "There is therefore an ongoing need to develop new efforts and new knowledge so that different forms of violence in close relationships, including psychological violence, are combated. And we are in complete agreement. But instead of trying to make a strategy, and I have actually taken that idea from the recommendations of the Women's Council. I think there is something right in choosing a few subjects and then asking the question: can you make a real strategy on how to set up targets, some sub-objectives, some indicators? and then try to follow it up and see what is happening and whether it can really become more action-oriented, broader in society, instead of pointing out what needs we need to address. It's an attempt to see if you could dig a little deeper into some of the topics. I recognise that all the issues involved in this are important and therefore it is also a question of choosing. But I hope the Minister will consider it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323151208	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323151216	2017 was the year in which women, through the metoo movement across age, social classes and national borders, broke the silence of abuses and violations. The movement should not just be seen as individual celebrities and stories; we should use the focus that has been created to have a debate about the problems which have proven to be so close to ourselves, and we should have broken the culture that legitimises and minimizes border crossings. It is not a struggle between men and women, but a joint task in changing the structures that create oppression and unequal power relations. To let go is to maintain conditions as they are today. And in view of the worldwide movement, of course, this annual debate on equality in the Parliamentary Assembly is no less important. The important work on equal opportunities, rights and access to influence for both men and women and for the right of all people to participate on an equal footing in all aspects of life and society is also an important and relevant discussion in 2018, just as we still have a major task in ending sexism and stereotypes of gender. In SF we can fully share many of the visions and intentions presented by the government in this equality statement. Everyone must have equal opportunities in Danish society and no one should be discriminated against on grounds of sex, sexual orientation or gender identity. And the report here also contains a lot of fine descriptions of both visions, initiatives and initiatives, with which it is very difficult to disagree. Therefore, the political differences are probably not in the basic visions of a more equal society, but rather in how to actually get there and how quickly it should happen. And there it may be a little difficult to be wise about what kind of a bar the government's initiatives must be measured up against. What exactly is the level of ambition? When we look into the future and have to measure the efforts that have been made on the basis of some of the good intentions that young people should not be restricted in their educational choices, that more women should be on board and in politics and that more fathers should take leave, what is the success criterion? In general, I do not see any response from the government to concrete objectives for its vision of a more equal society. After all, the statement is structured on a number of general issues, and I would like to delve a little more into the individual parts. The government thus writes in the first part of the statement on the rights and freedom of individuals that the government wants to create better opportunities for those people, and especially women, who are subject to social control. In the SF, we believe it is important to be realistic about the challenges that exist with women who are subject to social control. But we probably believe more in an outstretched hand and in cooperation and inclusion as the key tools for freeing women, for example. by better helping violence and by removing some of the barriers such as economics and residence permit requirements which can prevent women from leaving a violent and oppressive relationship. And then I think that if we really want to do something about the real problems, it is also important to pay attention to how we talk about the problems, so that we do not end up in a one-way street and os rhetoric that may ultimately result in minorities being excluded from the community. For that is the opposite of what we want, not least here in the equality group, namely inclusion. The Minister mentions masculinity as an area where new knowledge is to be collected. I welcome that. However, I do not believe that this should be done solely in relation to ethnic minority environments. Generally speaking, we need to gain knowledge of why men are over-represented in relation to crime statistics, violence, culture of violation, suicide, abuse and homelessness. When it comes to violence against women, I also lack a slightly greater focus on interventions that can help combat it, and more opportunities for help, including for the many who do not come to a crisis centre. And fortunately there is support, and thanks to the government for being so offensive in relation to the agenda that is about putting psychological violence into the penal code. But I'm just thinking that it's no use stopping there. In other words, the penalty does not in itself solve any of the dynamics of violence at stake. Another theme in the report is the challenges of digital sexual abuse among young people, which we in the SF agree should be taken seriously. Of course, this is primarily about limiting the extent of digital sex abuse, but it is also about asking yourself the question: Why is this happening? It is important to stress that punishment and consistency cannot in any way do so alone. We need to get better at talking and with young people about the consequences of their choices and about basic human empathy, including on the digital platforms. Of course, in relation to the part dealing with people with disabilities and the right of people to a safe life without discrimination, we fully agree that as a society we must do everything possible to promote that agenda. We ourselves were also part of the pool of rates, which set aside 25 million. kr. to strengthen efforts in relation to it over the next three years. For it is a bottom-up task for our society to ensure that sexual orientation and gender identity should not affect your ability to live the life you want. When it comes to ensuring better use of all talents in the labour market, I would actually like to commend the government for some of the things that are written in the statement. It is positive that the government attaches importance to the need to reduce the gender-based labour market, to promote women's access to management and politics and to promote the use of leave by fathers. The fact that the government presents both the visions and at the same time some efforts are acting on it is actually positive. One example of this is the campaign "Orlov" • take it as a man launched by the government last year with companies, employers, organisations and professional organisations, and it will be exciting to see whether the campaign is rooted in the leave statistics for fathers. At the same time, there should be no doubt whatsoever that we in the SF would like the government to be even more ambitious. Because if we are to have men more involved in caring for the children, it is well known that the SF does not believe that we can escape through legislation to secure earmarked maternity leave. Because we know that the pay gap between men and women starts when children are born. At the same time, as the SF's equal opportunities rapporteur, I cannot fail to note that the government in its report mentions the new rules on grief leave adopted by a unanimous Parliament on 25 January 2018 which ensure that both parents are now entitled to 14 weeks of grief leave if they are in the tragic situation of losing an infant before the 32nd week after birth. This is a matter for which we in the SF have been fighting for many years, and that is why, of course, we are also very pleased that the government wanted to move forward with the resolution that we tabled last year, so that we finally changed the imbalance that has existed in the scheme. Then there is the global equality effort mentioned in the statement. And here I am, among other things. The government writes in the section entitled "Developing aid as a lever for equal opportunities' that it will continue to push for further impetus for global equality, among other things. through development aid. And then you might well wonder why the government is not more ambitious in terms of development aid and that you only want to live up to the 0.7%. of the United Nations, which is the least expectation. If we want to promote global equality efforts, we must also prioritise it and act accordingly. Overall, the government's statement contains a lot about information, knowledge, dialogue and debates as tools to create equality. And that's also very good, because I think the conversation is important when it comes to equality. However, it is also our view that things will go too slowly if legislation is not included. And in addition to the excellent and useful facts that are in the statement, I miss some action plans and rather like the radical rapporteur also highlighted some actual strategies, which are a little less airy and superior. However, this may be some of the things we can develop together in the future, and we will certainly be very happy to take part in some discussions on what strategies we need in the field of equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323152148	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no conservative rapporteur, and then we go to the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323152208	Many thanks to all the rapporteurs for very good and comprehensive rapporteur speeches, for a good debate and for the opportunity for me to now be able to respond and respond to the many good and sensible things that have been said in the debate on the report. And yes, we agree, I hear the way around. We have come a long way here in Denmark in ensuring equal opportunities for women and men, but are we in the end? That depends on exactly how to set the target number. Several people have mentioned this in relation to the risk of setting a target figure. And let me be quite clear in my vision of the debate on equality: equality for me is not a purely fifty-fifty, so to say, men and women equal number of fifty-fifty, then there is equality. Equality is basically the discussion on equal opportunities and equal rights. And having said all that, it is indisputable that there are tasks where you have to say that we still have plenty to look at, and therefore it is important that we stick to it and continue to focus precisely on the many areas where there is potential for improvement. Thank you for the receipt that it will bring the debate on the statement and the perspective and action plan into it. We address several of the tasks. I hope that we have almost been around them all, at least the rapporteurs have. However, allow me to start by stating that I see that the greatest equal opportunities task we have is not the only one, but the biggest one is the lack of equality in certain ethnic minority communities. And I find it widely, both today and on a regular basis, that it is a common cause, also across party boundaries, in order to succeed in creating the necessary change, so that all women and girls, regardless of ethnic background, enjoy fundamental freedoms, the fundamental opportunities that we have in Denmark, because in Denmark equality is a fundamental value, and freedom for the individual to decide for herself over her own body, to determine his own life is a fundamental right. You should be free to choose education, leisure activities, job, girlfriend, spouse. It cannot be graded, and it is important to put it this way: it applies to everyone in this country, regardless of gender, whether you were born in this country or have roots in another culture. And yes, sometimes it may be difficult to talk about, but we must not be afraid of touching, because then I think we are going to let New Danish girls and women who are already taking this fight down. With the government's strategy, a Denmark without parallel society, we want precisely to break down the more or less isolated enclaves, where women are considered less valuable than men, and where social control and lack of equality impose narrow limits on girls and women's opportunities for expression and personal freedom. And we know that social control is particularly widespread here. That's what we want to get rid of. All girls and women in Danish society must have equal rights and equal opportunities. The Social Democratic rapporteur noted that there were many ministers present in connection with the launch of the government's parallel community strategy, but that the Minister for Gender Equality was not present at the launch itself. There were eight of my good colleagues in the government present at the launch, but I can reassure you that I have been very involved in the work precisely to ensure that the whole discussion on social control and the gender perspective in it is obviously part of the whole work on gender equality and the whole work on the parallel society strategy. To supplement this further, I would like to say that in the autumn, too, I am launching an information and debate offer for minority ethnic women, men and young people, simply basically in order to say, once again, to focus on rights, to focus on equality and, of course, on negative social control. Then, as several speakers have said, it is also a question of continuing the dialogue, of engaging in dialogue with both parents and young people. I will continue to do so myself. Last year, towards the end of the year, we held a very successful youth summit. It was really also with a strong call from many of the young participants: Please keep doing so, including with our parents. There are very many who are breaking taboos right now, who are taking the necessary fights, and these are the ones we support by also being active in this fight for freedom to live and be the one you want. After all, as I said, the Perspective and Action Plan also contains a number of other important areas of action. And let me say a few words about the whole region of Glbti, because we are, after all, putting a new focus on creating greater security, well-being and equal opportunities for everyone, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. We do this because lesbians, gays, bisexuals, tranned and intersex people still face discrimination and prejudice in this country. We do so because everyone must be able to live their lives freely and in security with the boyfriend and partner they want, and with the body expression or gender characteristics that you want to have. That's why I'm glad I got this coordinating function. I am also pleased that the pool of rates parties have jointly set aside 25 million of them, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned. kr. in the period from 2018 until 2021, all for initiatives specifically in this area. These are initiatives which will form part of a comprehensive action plan which I expect to launch this spring. Then more have also been on the whole of the metoo movement. There, too, we are taking action to prevent and deal with sexual harassment. Tabus are broken and taboos must be broken, because sexual harassment and sexism are never in order. That is also why I, together with the Minister for Employment, have been out with a call to both private and public jobs about the importance of taking management responsibility here both to prevent, but indeed to combat, sexual harassment. And in April we will hold a hearing with the social partners. Then we must also continue to work to ensure that all talents are at stake. It is both about the individual having the opportunity to exploit his talent, to bring his resources into play, and then it is about the fact that we too, as a society, cannot afford to miss out on skilled labour, nor can we afford not to spend all the talent that we spend a lot of money on doing well-educated. There is a positive development in relation to seeing that more women become part of management and boards, but yes, there is room for improvement. Many, especially the larger companies, are committed to getting more women into management, and some of the good examples we would like to try to gather so that others can be inspired by good old-fashioned knowledge sharing. In this context, I will also work with the recruitment industry so that it can also be better at unfolding the whole range of talents, when it comes to finding suitable candidates for management positions and, in general, challenging the gender stereotypes that very many people meet with, no matter where you work, regardless of what you work with. In this context, we need female role models to help inspire young people to choose training that can lead to management, and also training that leads to management careers in general. That is why, in connection with 8 March, I, among other things. launched a role model corps together with the Danish Diversity Council. For me, the freedom to choose is essential, and in this discussion about bringing talents into play we must also continue to take a stand with this gender-separated educational choice. It is about continuing to work for more men, for example, to choose to become an educator and to choose a caring profession, and also to focus on getting more women to choose, for example. IT way. We say that the future is digital, but that is to say, the present in which we live is digital, and there is no point in women not being the creators of the digital solutions of the future as well. So I will continue to focus on that too. So gender stereotype expectations are not meant to determine what you are training for or what you are working with. Then I'll continue action... Orlov... take it as a man. Several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned the area of maternity very specifically, the social democracy quite specifically, compared to the 32 weeks today, which in the vast majority of cases are used by mother and also technically to start with mother, even though one can divide it between oneself. So I have to be honest and say that I think this is an exciting proposal and we need to look at that. What we are also doing, as several speakers have said, in relation to the whole initiative of the campaign, is that they come up with a study which, I hope, can give us a little more knowledge about the effects of father's leave. Because, as the radical rapporteur said, it is not only good for families, it is generally good for families, both for father, for mother, for children, and it is also good for companies. One of the things we are doing here is that we are providing a pool for local information and debate activities on fathers and leave, so that we are pushing and helping to put it really on the agenda. Then several of the rapporteurs have addressed the whole area of violence. Let me start by saying, in relation to the very specific proposal from the Radical Left, whether one could not imagine that as Minister for Gender Equality one chose a theme, so to speak, and then went into depth. A Minister for Gender Equality is the coordinating minister for gender equality. Violence in close relations is also located with several trade ministers both in relation to criminal law, it is with the Minister for Justice, and in relation to the women's crisis centres it is with the Minister for Social Affairs. And so we have seen an action plan to combat violence in the family and in close relations. It is actually all the way back from the S-SF-R government, which, together with the Left and Conservatives back in 2014, set aside money for a four-year action plan. It runs until 2018, and the evaluation will take place in the first quarter of 2019. It should also be said that we are just going to see what has happened with these initiatives. It is not the case that we have been on the left, so to speak, since this action plan was adopted. For the stake pool parties back in 2017, i.e. last year, the whole focus on Lives Without Violence, a new national unit against violence in close relationships, among others. also has formed exactly this whole unit, which also has a knowledge presentation. So things are going on. It is indisputable that this is necessary, but it is only to say that with the evaluation of the existing action plan and precisely the national unit, I really think we are well on the way. So this thing about saying that now and here we have to launch a new action plan, it follows in the tail of the other one here. Several people have then raised the issue of how we talk about violence in close relationships, and there has been a lot of criticism in relation to studies and so on. And let me say, as I have also done in connection with the launch of various findings, that violence against women is the primary problem. For here the majority of the serious cases, here are the biggest injuries with the most far-reaching consequences, and that is also what various reports state. There has also been a discussion about what else, so to speak, can be discussed when we talk about violence in close relationships. I am glad that the rapporteurs who have taken it up have also said: well, violence in close relations is not just about women; it is about the whole family. Some of the initiatives that are also being taken in connection with the Dialogue against Violence are to try to look at the perpetrators of violence and try to find causal links to combat it, and this is clearly also an important element in the discussion on combating violence in close relations. The SF specifically addressed the issue of the masculinity study and was concerned about whether it was only about masculinity in relation to ethnic minority environments. And no, ethnic Danish men are also looked at, so it goes wider. I'm just gonna stand by and look at the notes and apologize if I made it all. Otherwise, there is also the possibility of asking questions. I really think it is better to start rounding off here and then take questions. I would just like to say that equality work is a long and awesome move and development is not moving overnight, and there are no snapshot solutions. But it is moving, and I do not believe that things are just fixed with legislation or money. For me, this is a common cultural struggle. It is a battle that we must take for the sake of the individual and for the sake of Denmark, but of course also when we are out in the big world. And I would like to thank you for the reactions that have been to our work in relation to the Women's Commission, because it also gives us a strong voice internationally to push for women's and girls' rights and gender equality globally. And when we contribute 0.7 per cent in this context. We're definitely at the top of that league, and we've been able to do that for 40 years in a row. So I'm gonna put my back on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323153805	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323153810	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for both the statement and the good opportunity to have a discussion here today. You have to zoom in when there are so many different items on the table, so this should not be seen as a lack of interest in the rest. But I would like to ask the Minister something. For the action plan on page 9 states that a study shows that the concentration of residents with immigrant backgrounds is very important for the extent to which young women feel limited in terms of being able to choose for themselves which boyfriend or spouse they want. Following on from that, I would just like to ask the Minister for Gender Equality how she feels about some of the concrete proposals and ideas that are in the Social Democratic aliens' initiative, which are precisely trying to put an end to this concentration, which we know is in many places. I shall not go down in the concrete initiatives, because that may not be entirely reasonable on another resort. However, what is one's position as Minister for Gender Equality on the Social Democracy's proposal for national targets on the max. 30% bilingual pupils in primary schools and max. 30% with a non-western background and descendants of it in our residential areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323153922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323153924	Thank you for the question. Mrs Astrid Krag also spoke in her rapporteur's speech about the whole discussion about Muslim free schools, in other words, that these are places where social control is also exercised. I have no doubt that this is the case for a moment, and that is also why efforts have been made in relation to enhanced supervision and so on. And this is where we get into this really, really difficult dilemma, i.e. this cross-pressure between being in the Danish values of freedom and the proud free school tradition, and then using the Danish tools, which we are proud of and protect, to suddenly perhaps make school offers, which in the basic substance do not have the freedom-loving and addictive purpose at all. On the specific proposals in the Social Democrats' proposal, I would like to say that I am not going to go into any further detail, because I am not dealing with this here. But specifically about 30 percent. At any rate, I would say as much as Mrs Marianne Jelved, who is a former school teacher, said that when the concentration of bilingual reaches over a certain percentage, it becomes very, very difficult to handle, that is, when so many have Danish as a foreign language. So I think these are interesting suggestions. The hard part will be to find out the practicalities of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154045	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154047	It may be said that it was also a little in my rapporteur's speech that it is not, in fact, because I lack words in this area from the government either from the Minister or from the Minister's colleague. But words should also be followed by action if we are to move something. And that's why it's good to be able to hit something concrete. So let me ask you about what the minister himself is going into now with the Muslim free schools. What is the position of the Minister on the Socialist proposal, which is in line with both conventions and the constitution, that if there is too high a concentration of non-Western bilingual young people, one should be able to lose one's state subsidy? It is well within the Danish values of freedom that you have the right to set up a free school, but that does not mean that you have the right to receive the public subsidy, the tax dollars, with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154139	It is certainly a concrete proposal for a tool to be able to handle the percentage of pupils with a linguistic background in a school. That is, of course, a rather awkward answer to say, but it is just a discussion that needs to be taken with the Minister for Education, since the Minister for Gender Equality does not legislate on free schools and grants in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154201	I have to make it clear once again that we must stick to the subject. I don't think that's done now for the second time. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154209	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. In the Danish People's Party we do not want special considerations, especially religious considerations, and I mentioned in my speech among others. an example from Vollsmose, where there are gender-separated cafes. I also quoted in my speech a woman who sat on her scarf and who said that men and women are not sitting together, because that is our law and that is our rules. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister: what does the Minister really think about this? I have not heard the Minister say anything like that about that situation. We only have one set of rules here in Denmark, and that is Danish legislation. So I would like to hear the Minister's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154256	That could be a very brief comment. I fully agree with the view of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, namely that there is only one piece of legislation in Denmark, and that is why I find it unacceptable to try to introduce some form of discriminatory behaviour in this way. And that is why I think it is good that it is pointed out, as well as when we have difficult and hot discussions about swimming lessons, for example, where we have a fundamentally different tradition in Denmark, but for me it is important that the discussion and debate are also experimentally taken to the eye with the people who have specifically established the café. We need to figure out which mindset is in it, and really try to get to the core of why you do that kind of division. What's so hard? Why is it so hard for you to accept if a woman should sit there too? Well, we should simply try to take it at eye level and perhaps just take it face-to-face and not always just through the media where it tends to get somewhat hot.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154402	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154403	Well, the Danish People's Party has tabled several resolutions in this Chamber in this area, among others. in relation to praying rooms at our educational institutions and gender-separated swimming lessons for special reasons, after which the government has voted them down. But I would like to hear the Minister: what does the Minister think should happen to the people who do not comply with Danish legislation, including those who live according to their own rules? What exactly does the Minister think should happen to those people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154436	Firstly, we are in the legislature; we are in the Assembly. I am a liberal person, and my starting point is that there are limits to what legislation can do. We have rules and laws in Denmark, and we say that with rules and laws, land must be built. And we have arranged for these to be observed by law-abiding citizens of this society. That goes for everyone. Well, there has to be equality before the law. Secondly, in this way it will be a discussion about whether the legislation is being broken one way or the other or the third way. You don't break the law by saying that you have a swimming team running for women, or you don't break the law by saying that you have a man's night at the football cafe. But we can talk about it and then we can start discussing what we have of equal treatment boards, which can decide whether some can afford to make a difference. And in that it is just that the democratic conversation for me is most often a much stronger and more effective tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154532	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154535	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the Minister's reply here from the platform, and I would like to say that as a pool participant I also know the initiatives we have taken in the pool agreement, but I do think that this is a good example of how this should arise here. For it is also a paper that is filled with information, and then you think it is exhaustive in some sense it is not a criticism, but that is just how the experience of it is. I still think that when it says here that 10%. during their lives have been forced into sex or have experienced attempts at forced sex, of which 84 per cent are. women; that only 11%. of the sexual abuse was reported to the police; that 82 per cent. sexual offences are committed against persons under 25 years of age and, finally, that it is estimated that 100,000-132,000 people are subjected to stalking in Denmark annually, of which approx. 2/3 women, I actually need to know what's being done about it, what's happening. And I do not know if you should make a statement number two, because you are left with something missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154649	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154651	Well it has been received and yet explained by the fact that there are some rather strict formal requirements for such a statement: it must fill 12 pages, the Minister for Gender Equality is the coordinating one and must unfold the whole palette. That is why I also understand the reaction to being allowed to go into detail, for example when we talk about violence in general, but we need to make it brief and comprehensive in a statement, perspective and action plan. I would suggest if you would? in relation to the specific initiatives and paragraphs in this area. For my part, I would also like to focus attention on some of the many campaigns we have been running and running, on both violence in close relationships and the whole direction towards young people when we talk about lovers' violence, to be very, very focused on prevention, in other words, on understanding what abuse is, what it leads to, and at all, ensuring that we are well-educated and ready to take responsibility for our own lives, understand the reactions of others, and I could go on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154817	I'm sure you can. Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154823	I'd like to sign for that, too. I think that would be a good idea, and the Committee on Gender Equality could, in this way, invite the Minister to a meeting on how we can jointly undertake some of the public education tasks that are also involved in this. We are often out talking in many different kinds of circles, and it is not always possible to remember everything at once. It's a priority. But perhaps you could also find together a form that makes it manageable. That's all I wanted to promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154853	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154855	It is a good idea in this way to ensure that, regardless of where we are moving as a minister and elected by the people, etc., we get an overview of the many initiatives, both the planned ones and the framework, so that it can also be ensured that we get the evaluations and learn from the mistakes that may also have been made in some of the initiatives, and that, above all, we also ensure that when we do both campaigns, public education in general, but also take initiatives, such as an important thing as a crisis centre, the efforts that are being made have the effect of the many initiatives and initiatives that are aimed at.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323154949	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. Thus we can go to the Passover in peace and happiness.
ParlaMint-DK_20180323155000	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 3 April 2018, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Good Easter!
