ParlaMint-DK_20180411130022	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 217 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on taxation of electricity. Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill No. L 218 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure, the Law on Competition and Consumer Relations in the Telecommunications Market, the Law on Arms, the Extradition Act and the Law on Extradition of Violators to Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. Bill No. L 219 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior (Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille): Bill no. L 220 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Free Commune Networks. Peter Skaarup (DF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Christina Egelund (LA), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Morten Østergaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 140 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of ministerial pensions and pensions for ministerial children (citizen's proposal)). Liselot Blixt (DF) and others: Question No. F 29 (What will the government do to prevent people from publishing pictures and films from crash sites online before the relatives of the victims are informed of the accident, and that photos and footage reveal faces, license plates and other sensitive details?). Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Question No. F 30 (What will the government do to prevent curious and presumptuous persons from preventing or hampering the vital tasks of rescue staff and police in connection with accidents?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130206	The first question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130215	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130218	Thank you, Madam President. The question is this: what initiatives does the Minister expect to take to put an end to the shootings in Albertslund, with five shootings taking place within five days at the time of writing?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130233	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130235	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. I would like to begin by making it absolutely clear that this is a very serious situation that we have seen in Albertslund with numerous shootings in a very short time. That is totally unacceptable, there can be no two opinions on that and it must be stopped. We must put an end to the shootings, we must put those responsible to account and, above all, we must restore the security of ordinary citizens in the area. The police are massively present in the part of Albertslund where we have seen the shootings, and a large number of measures have been taken where the police have deployed with security-building and operational action. In relation to the security-building efforts, the police have deployed mobile police stations, they have patrols, and they have a close dialogue with local citizens in the area. A search zone has been established in the area in relation to the operational effort. The police of Copenhagen West Denmark are making a massive investigation effort, and they are getting assistance from both the National Police and the Copenhagen Police to deal with the situation in the area. All these efforts have led to the detention of five people related to the conflict. So the police have set up massive action against these shootings, and if further efforts are needed, it is my clear expectation that the police will use the necessary tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130354	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130357	Yes, and I also think that the citizens of Albertslund are happy that the police have tried to take care of this, but it is also clear that when you experience so many shootings, when I wrote this question on Friday morning, the number was five, but it then rose to six, because there had also been a shooting in the Quarter of Oxens, which had not come to public knowledge at the time when I wrote the question, it is incredibly intimidating. Knowing that when you go to Kickly to shop, it's 50 or 100 metres from where you've been shot, it means a lot to people's security in everyday life, that's clear. That is why we must also say to the Minister for Justice's answer: is that enough? Are we really into some kind of symptom treatment here? We have had a long period last year in the autumn, where there were major problems at Nørrebro, and now we have a situation in the West, where there are major problems. We all know that it's these gang groups that are behind it, and we know that a very large proportion of those who are in these gang groups are people who are of other ethnic origin. We know that there are problems in getting them expelled, there is a gangster who has been tried to be expelled and who has then been expelled with reservations a few times. Is it really satisfactory for the Minister that, for example, we should be able to do something about it? cannot get rid of such gang members and gang leaders who make everyday life insecure for citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130539	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130540	I think the question just got a new twist, but I think that is also interesting to discuss. First of all, I would like to say that I do not believe that there can be two opinions on this matter or that there may be, but I believe that the questioner and I are in complete agreement. If people shoot in the streets, there is only one way, and that is that they must be taken away and they must be put in prison, and there they must sit for a long time, as we have seen that the gang package that the author's party and the government have made together has meant. The police are in the middle of the investigation. So far, there has been no indication that it was supposed to be a conflict between gang factions, but that there is more of a local criminal environment in Albertslund. But whatever it is, it is equally serious, and we must strike down hard on it, because I am not satisfied as long as there is a single case of shooting. I must never do that, and I hope none of us will.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130629	Yes, but I do think it is connected anyway, because it is clear that when you see a gangster who is tried unsuccessfully and at the same time finds that there are murders in Valby Park, and then we have these situations in Albertslund, and that, as I have referred to in another question, there are shootings in Avedoor Stationsby, you get the feeling that things are not really in order and that we may in fact have to live with a situation where those search zones are normal and that this is just something we have to accept as normal conditions in certain parts of our country. I do not think that the Minister for Justice can be satisfied with that, so I would really like to hear the Minister for Justice what the Minister for Justice is thinking about cleaning this up. So, what is going to happen to these people in terms of getting them out of service, if you can say so, and getting these networks up once and for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130733	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130734	I think we have to realise that the world is changing all the time, and so is the criminal image. The art is so that as a society we react to it and not just let go. That is what we have done together with regard to the whole gang situation. Well, we both remember when it went crazy on Nørrebro. It took a while, too, because one thing is that it gets shot, but then you have to find out who shot, and you have to take people out, and you have to investigate. It's gonna take a while, but then you get them out, too, and they're gonna have to spend a long time in prison. And we can see that the gangs are really pressed right now because we've thrown over 400 gang members into prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130815	We have also welcomed this from the Danish People's Party, and it is all welcome. One can always discuss whether it is gangs, whether it is a criminal environment or what it is, but I have to say that those who experience a shooting in their local area, whether it is in the District of Oxens, Bækkården or on the corner of Roskildevej and Albertslundvej in the West, feel extremely intimidating. I must say that I also come in those areas normally, almost on a daily basis, and it is incredibly intimidating to have an idea that you have to look over your shoulder to be sure that a car does not suddenly come along and blow you down. So what kind of message does the Minister of Justice really want to give to these citizens? I was able to see that there was a policeman who specifically asked whether one thought that one's daughter could go out at night, said: yes, yes, she just has to do that. I think that's a strange advice to give.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130915	Time's up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130917	What citizens have to take with them is that they have to look at what the police are doing. There are both mobile stations, there are patrols on foot, there are patrols by car, there are also, and I would like to make sure that citizens do so, much more police than you might just sense. We're gonna take these people out and put them in jail so we can calm down again. That is what I think we, as a society, must do, and we must stand together to do so. Every time someone shoots, whether they're gang members or not, it's totally unacceptable, because it's crazy to take a gun in your hand and shoot at other people, and they're going to be put in jail, and the police are doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411130956	The question is closed. But there is a new question for the Minister of Justice from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131002	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131004	Thank you. I have to say, for the record, that the fine watch that used to be down here and that helps us figure out how long there is is not working. So it makes it a little harder to find out. We'll get that figured out. When I get up, it's because the tamp burns). I'm glad I'm trying to look. Thank you. The second question is this: does the Minister intend to allow the police of the West of Copenhagen to be reinforced in the light of the recent shootings in Copenhagen, among others. Albertslund and Avedoer Stationsby, as was the case when the gang war was at its peak at Nørrebro, where the Copenhagen West District Police contributed extra personnel to the efforts of the Copenhagen Police?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131036	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131037	I can say 'yes' to that, and that has already happened. The police are massively present in the part of Albertslund where we have seen the shootings. The Western Police Department has received assistance from both the National Police and the Copenhagen Police Department. In turn, they have delivered to Copenhagen in the past and it is quite simply in order to stop the shootings and maintain security in the area. Mobile police stations: the police have launched a massive security-building and investigative effort, and for me, as a minister, it is absolutely crucial that you as a citizen feel secure. That's what you're entitled to. We're all entitled to that in this community, no matter where we live. Therefore, it is my clear expectation to the police that all the forces will be put in place to bring this situation under control, and if further efforts are needed in order to strengthen efforts, it is also my expectation that the police will use the necessary tools. As I have said, there have now been five detentions, the police are following this very closely, and it has been necessary here to give assistance to the Western police, and that is also how it should be. This is exactly how our police are supposed to work together. Because it's equally serious whether you shoot in Albertslund or if you shoot at Nørrebro.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131149	Yes, there can certainly not be two opinions about that. Now it's the case that it's not just Albertslund that's been these shootings lately. Immediately before, i.e. in the period around 25 March, there were three shootings in Avedoer Stationsby, and in two cases at the Bødker Gate, and at the City Wall, for example. a location for some young people. I think we should just be aware of this when we hear that Albertslund is now being shot and that now there is a shooting in Avedoor Stationsby, so that there is such an insecurity among the citizens, and that is why I think it is important, as the Minister has said, to show that you are there. But I do not know if the Minister has any information on whether or not there is a connection. I know those shootings in Avedoer Stationsby aren't solved yet. But we also saw how a situation at Nørrebro eventually got completely out of control last year, and I really hope that this is not the kind of shooting that we are going to see in the West.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131300	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131302	No, I certainly hope not. The best to ask are those who are crazy enough to take a gun in their hands, and we can't always prevent that. But what we can do anything for is both to have a good intelligence work, and that is if the damage happens then that we investigate and find out who it is and put them in prison. Fortunately, the gang package made by the author's party and the government together with the Social Democratic Party means that they are going to jail for a very, very long time. A lot of these gang members are going to be in jail for 3, 5, 6, 7 years, and that's just really good. But I'm very, very aware of this, and I don't have any information standing on it in Avedoer and a connection to Albertslund. I simply cannot answer that question here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131343	Here you go, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131345	But then it may be that the minister can answer whether this is part of the overall picture of crime developments in the West, i.e. that there are these shootings, and whether it is related to the fact that the Copenhagen Police are assisting the police in the West of Copenhagen. The fact is that Copenhagen's Western Region is a relatively small area, which means that if something happens in Albertslund, there can very easily be connections to Hvidovre or Brøndby or Ishøj, or whatever. And I know there's been a lot of focus on this, that it's a criminal environment in Albertslund, but the question is, is it really a network that has ramifications elsewhere? I do not know if the Minister has any information on that. But I just note that there is an insecurity out there, and I think we should do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131440	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131444	I fully agree with that. It's always part of the overall picture when the police investigate this kind of thing: Where do what crimes happen, and how do you link it? It is clear that it is not necessarily all investigations that are so put out to public knowledge. But I think it is important to say that when a police group is experiencing such a situation, you can request assistance and that is what has happened to the National Police. The National Police have then given assistance from the Copenhagen Police to the Western Region. This is the way our police should be: we must move resources to where it is most needed. When the bullets fly in the streets, the police move there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131525	I think it's a good thing that the Minister of Justice is declaring himself willing to do something about this. Then you can always discuss what the background is for that. Because there is no doubt from our point of view that one of the reasons why we see these things, both at Nørrebro and in Albertslund and elsewhere, is in fact many years of failed immigration policy. In other words, some people have come here who have not grown up with the culture and standards we are used to, and who bring with them some standards from some other cultures, where the shooting and that sort of thing may not be as cross-border as it is in Denmark. So I must also ask the Minister for Justice whether the Minister for Justice agrees with, or can reveal, whether it is not true that many of these people who are in these criminal environments actually have a different ethnic origin than Danish, and whether this is something the police have a look for and a particular focus on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131624	Here you go to the minister for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131627	Thank you. The police are looking to solve crime and put people in prison. The questioner then runs an open door with me if it is about saying, for example. in relation to Loyal To Familia, it is obvious to everyone that most members have a different ethnic origin. This is among other things. That is why we have played out a plan to combat ghettos and parallel societies, and I hope that, as far as many of the proposals are concerned, the author's party and we can find some good solutions together. Because this is what we need to clean up, because it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131659	Thank you, and that concludes the question. The next question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131708	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131713	Does the Minister consider it appropriate that, as part of a judgment on violence against children, it should be included that the judgment is subject to cultural conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131724-2	Thank you and thank you for the question. I cannot accept that Denmark attaches the importance to the imposition of penalties that an infringement is culturally conditional. This applies both to violence against children and in general. We have common values in this country and we must be careful that things do not slip away. Coming from another culture can never be an excuse for crime, let alone for beating your children. In Denmark, there is one set of rules, no matter where you come from and what your cultural background is. There should be no doubt that it is the opinion of the government that the court should not place emphasis on the cultural background of the perpetrator in the decision of criminal proceedings, and that is why I have asked my officials to investigate how we ensure by law that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131816	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411131828	It's okay. It's okay. Unfortunately, the President-in-Office of the Council is not working. We're sorry. We've set it in motion. But when I start to stand up, it is because the speaking time is running out). Yes, President, I'll try to see if I can maneuver around it. Thank you to the Minister for his answer, which I think in many ways was actually a fairly clear answer. I hope, of course, that the Minister will find out how often this is being used around, because I agree that this is completely unacceptable. We cannot accept in any way whatsoever that this is part of these cases. But that was also a rather clever answer, because the Minister was, as I heard the answer, merely on the issue of guilt in the process. And I would actually like to read a quote from a law professor at the University of Southern Denmark, named Sten Schaumburg-Müller-Müller: "When it comes to assessing whether or not something criminal has been committed, there is nothing about 'culturally conditional'. You've either done it or you haven't. However, at the moment when we have to measure the penalty, there is a wide range of considerations that the courts must actually take into account. This means that there will be some individual things,...·, says Sten Schaumburg-Müller-Müller, who is a law professor at the University of Southern Denmark. He said that to TV 2 here some time ago. After all, the Minister was alone, as I heard the answer, in fact to the same thing as the good professor of law, namely that when you judge guilt, it does not matter here, but that afterwards it can play a role, whether what has happened is culturally conditional. That is why, of course, I would like the Minister of Justice to be lured out of the bush in order to answer whether it is also in cases where it is a question of the punishment, that is, not only the determination of guilt, but also the subsequent measures. Does the Minister agree with me that, of course, it is also unacceptable and inappropriate in any way to use it here on cultural grounds as an argument for granting a lower penalty, for example? In cases of violence against children?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132023	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132024	Thank you. It is always the responsibility of the communicator if communication does not go right or well. There I would say that if I said guilt, that's certainly not what I mean for blame. It's just a matter of whether he's guilty or not. No, it is at the time of the punishment, at the time of the sentence, that I also think it is important, because there must be no culturally-conditioned standards that mean that, because you come from a particular culture, it is okay to beat your children. That's what I'm bringing in a bill that's gonna change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132108	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132109	All right, I am very pleased with that answer, because I think the Minister had the doubts in the ground. So I can at least finish this question for the moment. And then I know I have another one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132122	That's right. And it's also for the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132128	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132129	Thank you. Is the Minister confident that cultural differences appear to be taken into account when judgments are handed down as a result of increased immigration?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132137	As I have just said in relation to the reply to S 680 from the questioner, I cannot accept that Denmark attaches the importance to the imposition of penalties that the infringement is culturally conditional. I think this applies to all offences, whether it is violence against children or other forms of crime, and that is why I have asked my officials to look at how we ensure by legislation that this does not happen. The immigration policy can be discussed so much, but whatever it is, there should not be punishment measurements where the cultural origin can be used as an argument for lower penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132226	Good. I am pleased about that, and we were able to clarify that part in the first question I asked. This question, I admit, has a slightly different aim. Because in Sweden a similar situation has been seen, and then we and we cheered ourselves up in such a tragic way over this, I think most people felt like what the state of Sweden was like, until we stood on our own case and thought: "Oh, come on, there's something here that doesn't work. But what I really want to say is that, as I understand the Swedish case, it was about the fact that the judges who were used in the case and who were suspended by political parties had a minority background and that it should have had a very great influence on how the Swedish judgment fell. In Denmark, we have tried to be a little bit preventive in relation to these things. I even think that it was in the time of the present Minister that we were discussing a legislative proposal which limited the possibility of, for example, a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. to use imams as judges, because there was to be some air between our legal system and being a religious preacher. I would just like to ask the Minister whether he is convinced that we in Denmark are covered, so the example seen in Sweden will not be 1:1 an example we could find in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132355	I have to be sure that I understand the question correctly, and if I do, I would say that I can at least guarantee that as long as this government and the author's party can count to 90, I am not at all worried about where this is going. Because I am quite confident that the government will stick to that and I am quite sure that the questioner's party will also insist that this is not allowed to happen. Now time does not allow me to comment on the Swedish judgment and, fortunately, it was something else. It was about wife violence, as I recall. Here in Denmark the person was found guilty, but it was then in connection with the sentence that they chose to base it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132437	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132437-2	The Minister is right about that. I would like the Minister to do this review and to set in motion some work, that some of what is also being looked at are judges and the appointment of judges. For well enough, we have been working on this in the Danish Parliament not long ago, but I still think it is a topic worth touching on in relation to the Swedish example. So I just want to hear from the Minister whether it could not also be an element that would be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132505	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132510	I think that, for the sake of the common interest, we should separate things, because I think we could both have an interest in establishing Danish law now, that when a penalty is to be measured, cultural background cannot be taken into account. I think we have an interest in dealing with that. When it comes to judges, we have just changed it, but if there is anything in the area that the questioner would like to discuss, then my door is open, as in all other cases, and then we sit down and discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132538	That's the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132539	Then I would just like to call on the Minister to take up the second case, that is to say this with judges, because I simply think it is absolutely central, and I think that the example we have seen from Sweden shows how a very large immigration is, in other words, one of the most sacred things in a state governed by the rule of law, namely our courts. So that is certainly a request I would like to make. I do not really believe that it should be accompanied by any real question; I would just like to make a call to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132610	Is that what it is? Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question (pm. No. S 679) is addressed to the Minister for Industry by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132621	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132623	Thank you, Madam President. In December 2017, the Government decided to postpone the introduction of the •LEI system • over 124,000 companies, which will be able to look forward to a costly administrative burden of more than 100 million. kr. Annually, if the companies planned by the government are required to have both a CVR number and an LEI code, when the entity owns as much as a share or a piece of security... does the Minister agree with DF that the expensive administrative burden must be stopped and not only postponed for 3 months as announced last December?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132658	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132700	[Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132728	Oh, there's the sound. I think we'll have to start over with the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411132736	We'll take it one more time for Prince Knud. No, it's not addressed to Mr. Knud. Hans Kristian Skibby, but just a figure of speech. The purpose of the LEI code system is to ensure that entities across jurisdictions can be identified in the course of their activities in the field of securities transactions. It contributes to strengthening global supervision of financial markets, including ongoing market surveillance and the identification of systemic risks and the fight against financial crime. It's like the bar for it, that is, the world we live in. This should then be seen in the light of the experience of the financial crisis, which revealed a need to ensure greater transparency in the financial markets. Overall, the intention behind the system is thus to create greater confidence in the financial markets. The requirement for an LEI code has been incorporated into EU legislation by means of a regulation and therefore also applies in Denmark. On the other hand, it is not a requirement that we in Denmark, in isolation, can decide on the date of implementation or not implement. The first LEI codes were issued in 2012 and on 3 January 2018 a new EU regulation entered into force requiring companies to acquire an LEI if they wish to trade securities. An entity shall therefore only have an LEI code if the entity wishes to trade securities. Thus, the entity does not have an LEI if it only owns securities. Nor are individual companies covered by the requirement. Figures from VP-Securities A/S, the former Securities Exchange, and the Danish Business Authority, have estimated that per year. 29 January 2018 has approx. 42,000 out of about 52,000 companies in Denmark already included an LEI code in order to trade financial instruments. It is therefore not a question of imposing the requirement on 124 000 companies, but of imposing it per year. 31 January 2018 is only approx. 10,000 companies located in Denmark with an active VP deposit with securities that do not have an LEI code. Compared to the entry into force of the requirement for an LEI code, as mentioned above, it is not a question of Denmark having decided in December 2017 to postpone the requirement. The decision of the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) was to allow companies to trade securities with an investment firm until 3 July 2018 without having an LEI in advance. The condition is that before trading the investment firm receives all necessary information about the entity for the company to apply for an LEI on behalf of the entity. Whether this option to acquire an LEI code can also apply after July 3, 2018 will be assessed as we approach that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133029	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133031	I thank the Minister for his answer to the question. We are well aware of the fact that there is an EU regulation which ensures the implementation of these various elements, but what I think might be interesting to see is also how many companies deal with these securities and what they then cost in administrative burdens, because no one has asked the government to say that it should cost DKK 750. to own a share in Novo Nordisk per year. I also believe that an EU regulation does not make it impossible for a practice which does not impose such high charges, or where, for example, you do. add a fee based on the turnover of the company in question in relation to investments in quoted shares or through investment funds. I think perhaps the Minister could try to reflect on that. Then the Minister also says that you don't get a fee for owning, you get a fee for trading. Where I come from in Jutland, it is normal that in order to own something, you also have to buy it. Does the Minister really think that anyone could sign up and leave the system after they buy and sell securities in 2018 and maybe only then will they have sold them by 2020? They should then sign up and enter or what is the minister and government really thinking in this regard? I think that would be interesting to clarify. I can then say that I see nothing on the desk about the speaking time I have, but... the President I will stand up. I'm really sorry that the system doesn't work, but when I start to get up, it's because the tamp burns). No, that was my initial comment on it. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on this. I would like to hear the Minister evaluate fees and turnovers in companies of these investments in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133225	Thank you. Given that there is no time, I choose to look this way all the time. I don't want to look right at me. No, I'd better look out of the corner of my eye. As I mentioned before, it is the case that it alone is approx. 62,000 companies, it's all about. The 42,000 of them have an LEI code, i.e. That it's 10,000 that's missing. There we have said, as regards the entry into force in June, that we must look at what we end up on when we approach. My interest is, of course, to impose a minimum burden on companies, and that is why, when new regulations are introduced, the relationship between the benefits of regulation and the burdens it entails must always be balanced. However, we think, as I know, that the questioner himself has made a great deal of reference to the fact that there have been cases of misuse of the financial system for criminal activities, which is why it is important that we have these rules, and it is important that there is confidence in the financial system. There, the LEI codes can help to safeguard the integrity of financial markets.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133327	Thank you. I acknowledge that the Minister is right in that there is a high degree of confidence in companies and their operations in Denmark, both in mortgage, bank, insurance, pension, production and everything else. That is why we are surprised that we then think we need an additional administrative burden, such as the one that lies in this. And I think it is fair to say that whatever you think it is being imposed by an EU regulation, we should perhaps expect, after all, through a liberal government, that we would not be able to offer an extra cost to all of these thousands of companies, which will be charged this fee of DKK 750. a year. I think so, and that was the one. The second point with regard to the amount of the fee does not seem to me to have been answered by the Minister. The minister said this was something to be done; it was an EU regulation. I asked: who has decided that it should not be a revenue-related matter? Who has decided that the fee should be 750 DKK. and not 500 kroner. or 250 kroner.? And who decided it couldn't be a combination with a CVR numbering system like what we already have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133427	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133429	As far as the fee is concerned, we have tried to make it as cost-oriented as possible, but I would like to try to delve into what is the real cost of it, because of course it is not something that the state should earn a single penny on it and then you have to assess it, right? In December 2017, I launched a study that mapped out whether there were significant arguments, as you just mentioned, for the CVR register to issue LEI codes, although there are already a number of private providers of LEI codes. However, there are both international providers of LEI codes and a number of Danish agents who help Danish companies acquire an LEI code. And the conclusion of that study was that there are no particular arguments for the Danish Business Authority to carry out the issue of LEI codes. So I've been trying to be inside to assess the extent of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133518	Here you go for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133519	Now the minister says that there are international providers. I do not think that makes it any less problematic, because the EU regulation must be expected to be implemented on the basis of Danish rules and standards. I think it is quite a unique system that we already have and that there is a high level of confidence in, precisely our CVR system, which is unique, easy and manageable. And it may well be a little provoked by the fact that this intervention actually makes it more complicated when it can be both international providers and national providers and it does not happen via one counter. So maybe that's where I think we should try to get put in. However, with regard to the fee of DKK 750, because you happen to have relatively few values as a private company, I think there should be a small limit, to put it bluntly. It should be the case that if you have a certain turnover or a security deposit, you should not be covered by these criteria and these annual fees, which are set out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133631	Last answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133633	Thank you. Intuitively I also thought that and that's why I investigated it would be obvious that the Danish Business Administration went into it because we have the entire CVR register. However, that study showed that the Danish Business Authority would have no special advantages over private operators and could thus make it cheaper. It would also be associated with a high level of resource consumption and significant costs on the part of the board to be accredited as the issuer. So there is no indication that the Danish Business Administration has advantages over the cost of issuing the codes. Then there is the question of principle, too, that if private individuals can do a job, why should public authorities have to do a job? But it is clear that we must always bear in mind that this must be done cheaply, and I will try again to see whether we can make it cheaper, for example. also for the small storekeepers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133723	Thank you. That concludes the question, and so is Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133739	The debate is open. I do not see the Socialist rapporteur, so we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411133812	Thank you for the floor. This legislation, L 197, is, as the rapporteurs will know, an ad hoc legislation that was drawn up in relation to the migrant crisis, so that things could be done, and that is to say, there are some rules of derogation in relation to the planning law, the building law, the housing operator's responsibility, etc. etc. It is clear now that these temporary rules, which were made quickly, must be permanentized. In other words, there is a need to maintain rules to impose operator responsibility on municipalities for asylum centres, and there is a clear need for private actors to be authorised to assist in the exercise of authority in the field of aliens. So we can support that. It is then the government's view that the provision to suspend access to justice for detention should be maintained, but then it should not be understood if we read through the proposal. In fact, a maximum of four weeks is proposed for judicial review and a new expiry clause is introduced, which will then be repealed by the end of 2021. Overall, we can agree to the other parts of the bill, but we see no reason to set a maximum of 4 weeks in relation to the issue of judicial review, as there is neither Danish citizens nor foreigners with a legal residence permit in Denmark. So it seems unnecessary to us to set a limit of four weeks if, in a situation of pressure, the authorities need 5 or 6 weeks to determine the identity of an alien, etc. So we are going to table an amendment which calls for the suspension of judicial review as long as the government and a majority in the Folketing consider it necessary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134043	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134053	As Mr. Christian Langballe just said, the bill here is directly linked to the situation we faced in Denmark and in Europe in autumn 2015. This is probably a situation that I don't think any of us want to see again. Refugees and migrants traveled in a very high number across our borders and caused chaos. I particularly remember the pictures from Lolland, where we saw a large number of refugees and migrants wandering across the fields and heading for Sweden. But I also remember other pictures: pictures of skilled policemen who took care of these people, and it showed how the authorities handled an otherwise very difficult situation. Despite the fine efforts of the police and other authorities, however, this did not change the fact that we had to act quickly legally so that things would not get out of hand if a similar situation arose again. That is why we adopted, among other things. the law on dealing with the refugee and migrant situation, which gave the police and the authorities additional tools. At the time, we dealt with the legislation as a matter of urgency and, as a consequence, we put in a provision that it should be reviewed. That is what we are doing here today. The situation is now very different from that of 2015. Denmark currently has an historically low number of asylum seekers. It's actually the lowest in nine years. I'm really, really happy about that. But if we look a little deeper at this situation, we see that Denmark has fallen from a fifth place to a ninth place to a fourteenth place and to a sixteenth place this year, in terms of how much our asylum pressure is relative to the size of the country. This points out precisely that, although we have a low pressure on asylum, it does not change the fact that there is still high pressure of asylum on the countries around us. Just look at Sweden, which last year received about 30,000 asylum seekers. Then it may well be that Denmark received only about 3,500, but it still shows that there is a lot of pressure on Scandinavia not right now in Denmark, but that is what I fear can change. In addition, there is the unstable situation in Libya, where unfortunately we still have far too many people travelling across the Mediterranean. In short, the pressure on Denmark can very, very quickly change again, so we should not rest on the laurels that right now we have a low number of asylum seekers, because that can change quickly. Therefore, I have no doubt that it is a very good idea to preserve the tools that we then gave to the police and the authorities. This is a derogation from the law on plans, and it is the case that we can seek assistance from private actors, or that we can, for example, seek help from private operators. can impose a ban on ferries and other means of transport if there is a great deal of pressure. And then we have to remember that most of these initiatives are only a legal basis for using the tools in specific cases. That also applies to what Mr. Christian Langballe mentioned earlier, namely that in special cases we can suspend the automatic judicial procedure for detained foreigners within 3 days. This is a serious intervention, and since it will only take place in exceptional cases, we are now changing the threshold of four weeks for judicial review. I therefore believe, as the world currently looks, that 4 weeks is a very, very long period compared to the otherwise existing 3 days. In this way, we ensure that foreigners have a fixed deadline and, at the same time, the police and the courts will have a longer period to deal with these cases in situations involving a high number of entry refugees and migrants. So to sum up, the Left thinks this is a really, really nice proposal. It gives us the tools to deal with a possible crisis situation that I hope will never come. That is why we support the bill. And I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that so do they.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134448	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134451	Thank you. I understand, sir. Marcus Knuth is very fond of the law passed in 2015, which saw among other things. was used to set up a number of tent camps, which stood in both 2015 and 2016. They were never used. The cost of these tent camps was at least 45 million. kr. So I just want to hear the rapporteur from the Left, whether the Left thinks it was a sensible use of Danish tax dollars, or whether it was a waste of money to fire for the birds in these tents in both 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134535	I don't think we fired for the birds because I don't think there were any birds in the tents. But I would call it due diligence, because if there had again been a lot of pressure on our borders and we had had no place, no resources and areas to deal with a large number of people, I am sure that the very same rapporteur would have pointed our finger at us and said: Well you were not prepared for a chaotic situation. It was due diligence, just as it is to have a fire department that costs something, but the day there is a fire, you will be really, really happy that you have a fire department that can move out and solve problems. If we hadn't had these tent camps and there had been a lot of pressure again, then we wouldn't have taken our responsibilities as politicians seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134616	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134617	But now we know from answers to the Folketing that it would take seven days to set up these tent camps, but they were left for months while they were kept heated, otherwise mold would go into them. It then cost taxpayers 45 million. kr. For example, when you asked the mayor of the Left in Aabenraa where one of the camps was, he said at the time that it was a waste of money, that it was symbolic policy and that the money could have been spent more sensibly. So was it due diligence, or was it a waste of money, to leave unused tent camps for months at the expense of taxpayers?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134704	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134705	It was clear timely care. Now I don't know if Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen had some magic glass ball, so he could for a week or several days in advance see the migrant crisis coming and could foresee that suddenly hundreds of people would wander on the highway from Rødby. I certainly didn't have it. However, it underlines how fast it went and how changing the situation was with the hundreds of thousands of people who had entered Europe, many of them from Hungary via Germany, where we could not foresee, if and in what number they would hit Denmark. They did, and so it was one hundred percent due diligence to have these tents.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134740	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134743	Well, I think it's a little comical that Enhedslisten is speculating on public spending, because I would say that Enhedslisten has been good at spending other people's money, but leave it at that. What I'd like to ask you is this four-week ceiling. I really think it is sensible to give the authorities the time needed to establish a person's identity, the identity of a refugee who comes here. So I do not think that this is any kind of violation of any rule of law whatsoever. It is not people who are Danish citizens. They are not legally resident in Denmark, they are seeking asylum in Denmark. Then they can be detained, and I think it is reasonable that there should be no ceiling on it. I don't understand why that ceiling should be overlaid.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134834	The right to be brought before a court within three days is relatively central in our legal system, but that does not alter the fact that I agree with Mr. Christian Langballe. When people from outside come looking for asylum, we obviously need time to deal with their case before they are brought before a judge. And there I think, as a starting point, that with the current situation, 4 weeks is a reasonable ceiling to put over it. And should we be in some very special situation, then I am sure that the Danish Parliament would then also be able to deal with a change to it, just as we have brought the bill here. As it is right now, I believe that 4 weeks as a starting point is sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134913	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134914	In other words, I think that in all sorts of other areas arrangements have actually been made which ordinary Danes are not under, for example. the fact that you can appeal against a court decision from the city court to the country court. There is no way of appealing against the refusal of asylum. Of course it can be brought back in, but usually there will be a refusal, and then it will be. So we already distinguish between the Danish legal system, which applies to Danes and people living in this country, and what applies to people seeking asylum. I think that is a sensible distinction which must be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134952	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411134953	That may sound more like a comment, but if Mr. Christian Langballe looks at the entire bill that lies here, and he can see that there are a large number of derogations from previous laws, from everything I mentioned before, the law of plans to the fact that we can get help from private actors and that we can introduce a residence obligation, etc. Well, that is something that has been corrected in a special situation. 4 weeks is relatively long. We could see that we urgently dealt with the bill, which significantly changed it, on, as I remember, 3 days. So I think this is within our legal principles, but should something arise that is even more exceptional than what might be feared here, then the Folketing can still take care of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135033	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. It is as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135055	Thank you. The Government proposes with the bill to permanentize the changes to inter alia. the law on plans, the increased access to detention, searching and limitation of the right of appeal introduced through urgent procedure here in the Danish Parliament in 2015. We are therefore talking about the removal of the revision provisions introduced by the legislation at that time. It was a deeply controversial law when it was adopted, because it allows for very violent violations of the freedoms of people who have done nothing illegal. It is about people who have come to Denmark to seek asylum, people who are largely on the run from war and oppression. They are not criminals, and they should not be treated as such. It is clear that the government with this bill wants to maintain a picture that there are large numbers of people jumping to storm the Danish border. If you look into reality, you can see that this is clearly not the case. Denmark currently has record few asylum seekers, and in fact the measures introduced in 2015 never came into operation. The government clearly wants to persevere in a scaremongering campaign of refugees rushing across the border, and social democracy, as usual, has fallen into the trap. But it's not just us in the Enhedslisten who are critical of this government bill. In the hearing answers, an alarm is being sounded at the lack of legal certainty and human rights violations. For example, the general comments of the Lawyers' Society on the draft law state that it is particularly worrying that the draft law intends to make a number of legal uncertainty temporary provisions... permanent. The legal community also criticises the fact that the power monopoly of the police is delegated to private actors. Danish Refugee Aid points out that there should be an upper limit for the detention of asylum seekers of a maximum of 7 or 14 days, and that an individual assessment should be made as to whether the asylum seeker may be a torture victim who would be harmed by detention. The Lawyers' Council considers it extremely questionable from the point of view of legal certainty that it is proposed to authorise the Minister to suspend the right to automatic judicial review. Danish Refugee Aid calls for the suspension of justice to be lifted as soon as possible, while the Institute for Human Rights considers that it is a violation of human rights, specifically Article 5 (1). 4 of the Convention on Human Rights, if you only have the opportunity to go to court after 4 weeks of detention. It is just to mention some of the concerns raised in the hearings. These are therefore violent measures against asylum seekers, given that they have done nothing but ask Denmark for protection. I have to say, I'm sad. I am sad that our country has fallen so deep that without a concrete reason, without the controversial law adopted in 2015, it has been used once, it chooses to compromise so much on fundamental principles of legal certainty. The Enhedslisten is, of course, against the proposal, as we do not want to treat people on the run as criminals, but want to safeguard human legal certainty, even if they are unfortunate enough to have been driven away from war and oppression.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135505	Yeah, it was. And there are a number of comments. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135512	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There is a great deal I would like to ask, because I disagree with much of what the rapporteur has just said, but I have limited possibilities of doing so, so I will stick to what the rapporteur himself asked me about, which was about the facilities we set up and which we could use, in the event that there was again great pressure on the Danish borders. The first thing we noticed in the summer of 2015, when refugees and migrants wandered up the highway, was that we didn't have a suitable place to place these people there weren't facilities available. That is why, in my view, it is so obvious that, of course, an emergency response must be provided. How can the rapporteur think that it makes no sense to have an emergency response when we saw the situation in Rødby, where the police had to accommodate these people in a closed school because they were in a situation where they did not have the right tools? How can the rapporteur disagree with the fact that we must, of course, have emergency preparedness?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135610	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135612	It is clear that if many people come to Denmark, as did in the 1990s, for example, when many refugees came from the Balkans, then you can set up tents for the summer for a shorter period, as you did then, until you find proper seats, decent houses that they can be in in the winter. However, I have to say that I am absolutely astonished that, in the summer of 2015, an experienced Member from the Left, who I even know has dealt with European politics and foreign policy, did not realise that many refugees were arriving in Greece, that there were many refugees passing through the Balkans, that there were many refugees arriving in Germany. I think all the media dealt with this, which is why it was not quite impossible to predict that people would also start coming to Denmark. That is why I think it is so absurd that one feels that one was surprised and not, as we discussed earlier, could set up some tent camps in seven days. What we are doing here is, of course, both making some serious interference with legal certainty, but also taking measures as if there were a permanent crisis situation, which is clearly not there and has not been there in the three years of this law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135739	Sir. Marcus Knuth. Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135751	Thank you. I didn't hear the President. What the rapporteur is saying here makes no sense. The rapporteur says that the rapporteur was aware that there would be large flows of people against Denmark, but I do not remember the rapporteur saying this one week before refugees and migrants wandered up the motorway. But let me ask the question in another way: if, a year later in the winter cold, we were suddenly again hit by thousands of people who arrived at the Danish borders, and we did not have this emergency preparedness, these tents to place people in, and then suddenly we were faced with thousands of people on a field, what I know in South Jutland or on Lolland and did not have a place to send them, would the rapporteur think that it was timely care that we had made these emergency camps, or would the rapporteur think that it was a waste of money?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135840	Well, let's deal with what the reality has been in those years when this law has been in force. There is not a single person, not a single asylum seeker who has been in the camps that the government spent 45 million. Danish treasure crowns on running for office. Now, despite the fact that the Lawyers' Society, the Lawyers' Council, a large number of human rights organisations and civil society organisations working with refugees and asylum seekers, this is a warning that it is violent interference with legal certainty, yes, it is perhaps a violation of human rights. I think that is a completely wrong way to approach the reception of people who are fleeing and asking for protection in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135927	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411135931	I wonder once in a while if it happened that the Enhedslisten in all areas got their policy through if the country would not collapse. It's not even a lie. But the fact that one can remain sacred outside and always criticize because one's own starting point is so utopian that it has no time on earth is, of course, easy enough. I simply ask: I can hear that tent camps should not be set up either, even if you may know that many people are coming. What are we supposed to do? What to prepare for? Should the same legal principles as apply to Danish citizens apply to the whole world? Should the social system apply to the whole world? That is what Enhedslisten says time and time again, without even being responsible for the view that some people have to pay the bill, that some citizens in this country have to bear the burden. The rapporteur also claims that all the people who came to the country during the migrant crisis were refugees. That is notoriously wrong, and that is not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140044	Thank you. There were many completely failed claims. I have not claimed that all the people who came and asked for asylum were entitled to asylum. After all, it is a treatment that needs to be carried out. That's why I call them asylum seekers. I have not claimed that all the people in the world should be part of the Danish social system. I do not know where the rapporteur gets that claim. Of course, we do not think so in the Enhedslisten. What we believe, on the other hand, is that people who are on the run should be given the opportunity to have genuine asylum treatment and must be treated properly, not subjected to possible human rights violations, which are being alarmed that this bill may do, not have their legal certainty trampled underfoot, not detained when they have done nothing criminally and are not detained without having the opportunity to go to a judge for four weeks. These are basic principles of the rule of law, fundamental values which I find to be Danish and which I intend to defend.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140155	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140156	That is where we simply disagree fundamentally, because I would argue that if the rapporteur had his way and it really became the norm in the country, the country would be overthrown and disintegrate. I would just warn against anyone else following that trend, that is, the fact that all refugees per year. The definition has a right to come to Denmark and we are talking about 70 million refugees in the world. If they all set a course for Denmark, where would the rapporteur himself set the limit for his own sacred principles? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140229	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140230	It is such an absurd scaremongering that there should be 70 million people on the way to roll over the Danish border, if not exactly this bill now I have the floor!
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140243	Yeah, we gotta take care of the feelings here. Here you go, it's the rapporteur now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140244	If this bill, which may be a violation of human rights and which is at least a rule of law, is not adopted, then it was adopted. What should we do to help refugees in the world? First of all, we must prevent them from being forced to flee. The Danish People's Party should do so, among other things. have thought about before they started a war in Iraq, a war in Afghanistan that has sent a lot of people on the run, but not least now here, right now, where we see that the Danish People's Party's close partner Yes thank you! Then the speaking time has been exceeded), the Turkish President of the NATO country, Turkey, has hunted 300 000 refugees in Syria. Well, yes, but that's when the speaking time has passed!), you have to intervene Hello!) if you want to stop people being chased on the run towards Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140316	You have to listen to what the President says, and we have to respect each other in here, on both sides. Here you go, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140328	Thank you. Today's bill is about several different things. On the one hand, it gives the municipalities more flexible opportunities to accommodate refugees, and on the other hand, there is the issue of judicial review, where a 4-week limit is now proposed. I understand that the Danish People's Party disagrees with the last part of the bill and that the first part is actually supported. We can support both parts of the bill. But I am actually interested to hear, if one imagined that the bill was split up, whether Enhedslisten would be able to support the first, that is to... temporarily accommodate refugees, in case we ended up in such a situation again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140408	Then it's the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140409	I think there are several things that are deeply problematic with this bill and I do not think that we are in an acute situation where we are threatened by huge numbers of people coming across the Danish border. Then I must say that I also do not understand that the Social Democrats are buying the premise and jumping into the trap that I believe the government is doing here, where very, very far-reaching initiatives are being taken, which threaten legal certainty and which a large number of organisations are crying out for, among other things. because they violate legal certainty, but also possibly violate human rights, when not one time in the last three years you have had to accommodate a single person in the camps that it is possible to set up with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140503	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140505	No, but in autumn 2015 the capacity of the Danish society was tested a little. At least I had a few mayors on the phone who said that they thought it was a little difficult to find temporary accommodation for some of the asylum seekers who were referred to them. This was due, among other things, to the fact that we had a rule that if there was too much noise in an area, temporary housing could not be established there. There we changed the law and said: Okay, it may be there is noise, but there are tens of thousands of Danes living close to a highway and having noise, so here we allow municipalities to make temporary accommodation close to a noise source. Now we are discussing whether we should not make those rules permanent. Can't Enhedslisten support it, or is Enhedslisten just against any kind of preparation for a similar situation in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140556	The Enhedslisten is not against any kind of preparation, but I think this is shooting completely beside it. In other words, we saw in the 1990s that 10,000 refugees from the Balkans could be welcomed without having to make a similar amendment to the law. At that time, it was the Social Democracy that sat with the government, and proper conditions were maintained, even though there was an extraordinary situation. Now we are making a very, very far-reaching legislation, extending it and removing the sunset clause and the revision clause, without this law being used once for a single person who has come to Denmark and has applied for asylum in the three years it has existed. I have to say that I am very puzzled and I believe that there are many Socialist advocates of legal certainty throughout history, including those who were active in the 1990s, who are wondering why this is really the position of the Social Democratic Party today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140702	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140708	In response to the refugee situation in 2015, a number of special rules were introduced so that the authorities were given the tools to deal with a rather extraordinary situation. Of these, three were subject to a sunset clause, which then expires on 1 December 2019. This concerns the possibility of imposing on municipalities operator responsibility for asylum centres, the possibility for private individuals to assist the authorities and the right to detention of foreigners without bringing them to justice within three days. When these three proposals were covered by a sunset clause, it was because they were quite extraordinary measures which can only be justified in an exceptional situation. The proposal here abolishes the sunset clauses on two of the proposals and postpones the sunset clause on the third. In addition, the two rules are maintained as permanent in the legislation, and then a four-week limit is introduced in relation to judicial review. We do this on the basis of a view that it is best to have these rules in place before you are in a crisis situation, and we also think that you have to have some consideration that you should not, of course, use these rules laxly. It is also important for us to follow closely the fact that the rules are not applied more widely than is intended. However, we also believe that it makes sense to have legislation in place in the situation of a crisis situation. So the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140857	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is the next rapporteur who is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411140910	Thank you. As has been mentioned, this draft law we are discussing today primarily aims to repeal the revision provisions of a number of laws adopted in 2015, namely the law on temporary residences for refugees, temporary accommodation for refugees and the management of the refugee and migrant situation, and so we want to make these amendments permanent with this bill. In this way, I believe that the draft law is an expression of the government's view that the exceptional provisions adopted by the old legislative proposals are still necessary to maintain, and we have already mentioned this in today's debate: is it necessary to maintain some legislative changes that have been introduced in an extraordinary situation when the situation is different today? The Left's own rapporteur, Mr. Marcus Knuth, it said very well in his speech, so that things are very different today than they were in 2015. Therefore, I would very much like to hear from the Minister at the outset it may be that in his speech on the Minister's continued view that Denmark can be considered to be in an exceptional state due to pressure on Denmark's external borders. I can start by saying that the alternative does not support the proposal, and we do not, because we basically believe that a number of the provisions introduced by the law on dealing with the refugee and migrant situation are a step in the wrong direction, that they are a step away from a democratic society of law and that they are contrary to our fundamental freedoms. The draft law on the management of the refugee and migrant situation was adopted despite strong criticism from among others. Institute for Human Rights, Amnesty International and a large number of other organisations. From CEPOS to Amnesty International, it was agreed that the austerity measures adopted in 2015 violate the principles of the rule of law on which Danish society is based. We can also understand in the alternative that, in exceptional circumstances, extraordinary means can be called upon to be used, but they must never put our basic legal principles out of hand, on the contrary. It is precisely in exceptional circumstances that our democratic rule of law and human rights can come under pressure. And that is why we believe that in such situations it is essential that we protect legal certainty, the foundation upon which our community of law is built. As the Institute of Human Rights pointed out in 2015, it is particularly the rules on the detention of asylum seekers that are problematic for us in the Alternative. Freedom deprivation is a far-reaching interference in personal freedom, and so we do not think it is a means of power that should be used as far as possible, as it says, or as a incentive. Nor do we believe that private actors should assist authorities in the use of force as a starting point, for example. by handcuffing. However, as I have said, what we find most worrying in the alternative in this draft law is that the draft law on dealing with the refugee and migrant situation authorised the Minister to suspend automatic justice after three days, which means that people on the run can be detained for an unlimited period of time and should not be automatically brought before a judge. In this way, judicial control was weakened and the legal certainty of the individual was violated. We do not think it should be the Minister who has that power. Of course, we welcome the fact that this bill limits the period to 14 days, but we still believe that it is too long. Well, that's interesting, because, like Mr. Knox... Christian Langballe said, I think he put it this way: why should people who are not Danes, i.e. foreigners who do not have a residence permit in Denmark, have the right to justice? Yes, they must, because they are human beings, and all people have some fundamental rights, even if they are not Danes. The European Convention on Human Rights also questions whether this is within the scope, within the scope, of the dial, so I would also like to know more about how the upper limit of four weeks of judicial review corresponds with the European Convention on Human Rights and the practice of the Court of Justice. So it may be that the Minister can give us an answer from up here or that we should ask it as a written question afterwards. But, as I said, we cannot vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141339	Thank you. There's a comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141341	Thank you. I think we can all agree that we must safeguard our basic legal principles, but this is a very special situation. I remember in 2015 that I was in Malmø, I actually think it was with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, to see what the situation was like in Sweden. And as I remember it now it's from my memory that about 40,000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden on October, 40,000 in a month, as I remember it. It shows, therefore, that it is not unrealistic that there can again be massive pressure on the Danish borders, and so there are still very, very many people who travel across from the Mediterranean. In practice, how does the rapporteur think we should resolve a situation in which thousands of asylum seekers may come to Denmark if we cannot override something like this? the right to justice within 3 days?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141436	Thank you. Firstly, the government must also rest in its own policy because, as has been mentioned, the figure in Denmark has fallen considerably. So unless the government itself does not think that its policy in this area has been successful, I see no reason why we should start having these temporary solutions, one might say, made permanent in the legislation. What is quite different is that the challenge of some of the last legislative proposals was, of course, the urgency of them. We are, in fact, prepared to do so, among other things. This bill to enable municipalities to take exceptional action had to be dealt with further so that we could be more sure of what exceptional situations are. But that was rejected by the government and the Social Democrats. We made an amendment which was actually about the fact that we would like to have a referral back and the legal treatment of exactly the element with the municipalities' possibilities for exceptional action. So it is not because we cannot understand the possibility or the necessity of being able to do something extraordinary, but it was rushed in the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141544	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141546	I do not feel that the rapporteur quite answered my question, because my question was quite low-practical about the situation that we do not have this special power to be able to override the three days in a situation where many thousands of asylum seekers could potentially arrive in Denmark in a short time. And thank you for the rapporteur's praise for our policy on foreigners, which has contributed to the fact that we now have an historically low number of asylum seekers. But if there is one thing we have learned from the refugee crisis, it is how changeable it can be. After all, there are thousands of migrants, potential asylum seekers, refugees, around Europe, and if they move and suddenly look against Denmark, and then we do not have the opportunity to bring people to justice within three days, what will the rapporteur do in addition to what we are proposing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141634	Firstly, we must respect what the European Court of Human Rights recommends, and that is maximum. 14 days. Secondly, this is screaming for international solutions. So we can try, individually, in each of our countries in Europe to turn down legal certainty and say that in this way we protect ourselves, but if we want to resolve the refugee crisis, we have to find international solutions, and then we have to go out into Europe and talk to the European Union and say that we have to create a key that is fair to the various Member States of the European Union, so that we do not have 40 000 in one month, as in Sweden, for example, and so that everyone, like collectively, contributes to the task it is. It just doesn't make any sense for us to lock ourselves in and close ourselves together about ourselves, only to take Denmark's interests into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141716	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141717	Thank you. I would like to ask the alternative the same thing that I asked Enhedslisten about, even though I did not get an answer before. This law relates to many different things, among others. gives it some more flexible opportunities to accommodate asylum seekers temporarily. The preliminary experience of these flexible possibilities shows that they have been used. For example: there have been five accommodations for which there has been a derogation from the planning law, and this applies to Nyborg, Haderslev Hospital, Es peasanterup, Kalundborg and Kærshovedgård. Now the government is asking for the permission of the Folketing to continue these provisions. I am in favour of the alternative being against suspending justice for up to four weeks, but if the bill were to be split up, would the alternative be able to support these opportunities that the municipalities have, if we were to end up in such a situation again, so that there are a little more flexible options to be able to accommodate refugees temporarily?
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141818-2	As the draft law was drafted and as it is today, we could not support it, because it was unclear in several parts of the legislative proposal what criteria are needed: how long must we take? be accommodated as lonely in a room with others? How long must one be accommodated in some of these areas where the noise level rules are exceeded? There were uncertainties in the draft law, and that is why we asked for it to be implemented without urgency. So we would very much like to go through another legislative process, in which we will then have some clearer criteria as to what kind of authority the municipality has. After all, we do not disagree at all with the possibility that the municipalities have, in order to be able to differ in some acute situations. But there are simply too many uncertainties about what is here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141905	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141907	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. We would very much like to contribute to this if there is something that can become clearer. But I think we should also bear in mind that it is therefore the elected representatives of the local authorities who have to implement these decisions. We must also have a tiny bit of confidence that they do not make completely stupid decisions. However, the reason why I appeal to the alternative to consider either dividing up the bill and voting for parts of it, or at least writing a report contribution, is that I think there is a need for wider parts of the Folketing to back some of the things we adopt in the refugee area. I believe that many of those who deal with these decisions in the daily life of the municipal councils would also benefit from seeing that, for example, they do not have the right to vote in local elections. a party such as the Alternative supported some more flexible options and that there is no trench in it every time it is put forward by the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411141959	Thank you for that and thank you for your recommendation. I'm not saying yes or no up here from the platform today. I would very much like to take it with me and discuss with the hinterland, where we are exactly in relation to what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye points out. We had some concerns about the latter. I have mentioned what it was: these rather unclear rules on the authority of the municipalities. I fully agree that the municipalities must have freedom of action. So I thank you for the comment and bring it back, but I will not stand here and promise anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142024	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142031	Thank you. Since December 2015, when the law to which we are now dealing with the revision clause was adopted urgently, the Minister alone has had the opportunity to detain people indefinitely without bringing them before a judge. And what is crucial for us is Article 71 of the Constitution, and it is so good that we have it in the drawers here, so that you can sit and update yourself on the good constitution, as in § 71 paragraph. 3, has the text that anyone arrested must be brought before a judge within 24 hours. It does not apply in the Aliens Act, but one can see in the government's bill, this bill, L 197, that the intention has also been expressed in the government and in the support parties • at least some of them. For now, a four-week period is set for this provision, and the provision will expire on 1 December 2021 as a whole. I think the government should be very commended for that, it is 6 years too late, but it is really, very good that it expires and that at least a deadline has been set now. What is important to us, and which is why we are voting against it now, is that this provision still applies and that it deprives people of some of the most basic, namely their fundamental freedoms, which meant so much to the constitutional fathers we have in Denmark who wrote this constitution on which our entire democracy is based. And at a time when freedoms are being challenged everywhere, in Europe, in the United States and certainly here in Denmark, it is absolutely crucial that we do not undermine them. We still think this bill does, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142308	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. SF is not present, but it is greeted by SF, who thinks the same as the Radicals. And Conservatives think the same as the Left, I understand. So now it's first, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142339	Thank you. First to the history books: The Enhedslisten's rapporteur referred several times to the situation in the 1990s in connection with the civil war in the Balkans. At that time, the Social Democratic Government and Home Secretary Birte Weiss decided to completely stop visa-free access to Denmark for refugees from the Balkans. This meant that the ferries from Swinoujscie, which had otherwise docked here in Copenhagen, were not allowed to dock with refugees from the Balkans. Instead, it allowed asylum to be sought in the Balkans. So many of the refugees who came here at the time are not people who have come here spontaneously and sought asylum on the ferry flap, but in a different way. And I would also like to say that for those who came here, their access to asylum was suspended for two years. If it were now imagined that the current Minister for the Interior had made a similar proposal in autumn 2015, that is to say that the Syrian refugees in the next two years were not allowed to seek and process their asylum application at all, then I would like to see whether the Enhedslisten had supported that bill. I simply do not believe that. So when it comes to reaching back in the history of social democracy and explaining what is the real social democratic policy, I would certainly not refer to Yugoslavia and the 1990s if I were the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I would also like to say that we learned a lot from the refugee situation in autumn 2015. At that time I myself was also in dialogue with several mayors who told about some of the challenges they had with accommodation of refugees. This was actually part of the basis for our choosing to support some of the amendments to different legislations that we had adopted at the time, because we thought that in these exceptional situations there was a possibility of making some more flexible accommodations and also giving the authorities more powers than they had in the existing legislation. Now we have to assess whether the rules adopted at that time can be made permanent, and we think that is only sensible. That is why we support the proposal, both the part concerning the repeal of the revision provisions concerning the accommodation of asylum seekers and the suspension of judicial review. And we also support the fact that it is now set at a maximum of four weeks. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142602	Thank you, and then it's the minister. Here you go. I'm sorry, I don't see that mark until now. Well, you have to be careful to get in. It's not coming till now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142619	Thank you. In any case, I would say that it would be very far-reaching in relation to the current Danish refugee legislation if it were possible to apply for asylum in Denmark directly from Syria, which was probably what Birte Weiss then introduced into the Balkans in the 1990s. However, I was asked a question about whether we could look at a relaxation of some rules in the municipalities. I think I actually answered the question, but the rapporteur did not feel he had an answer. So now I just want to give it here and say that it is clear that we can be open to looking at what is in the municipalities of opportunities to accommodate people in temporary camps. But it does not have to be temporary camps to detain them. And that's what I think is so violent about this, i.e. you take people who haven't done anything criminally, and even what I can hear from the Social Democrats is supporting you without them having access to come before a judge in the first four weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142730	First of all, not everyone had a basis for asylum which was then re-inhabited in Denmark in the 1990s. They were chosen by the Danish authorities. Secondly, I would say that among those who then lived here during the 2-year period, many of them lived down here in the harbor on ships. They had a small cabin, which so far did not live up to the rules we have today, about the accommodation of refugees. Then I will sign for Enhedslisten's support for some parts of this bill, and I would urge the party to write it exactly into the reports, because since we dealt with the law, there have been municipal elections, and Enhedslisten has had lots of party colleagues elected into municipal councils around, and I think it will benefit the process in many municipal councils if they can see that their party at Christiansborg can see the sense of some of the flexible options that have come. And I also think that it will generally benefit the foreign debate if we do not end up in the same trenches every time we meet down here, but relate to the various elements of the bill. And if the Danish People's Party gets split up the bill, there may even be the possibility that you will be able to support one part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142834	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142836	Well, like I said, we're looking at it, but we don't want to be involved in detention. In fact, I think it would benefit the foreign debate in Denmark if we were to be vigilant about fundamental principles of the rule of law, which is what I would describe as Danish values of freedom, that is, that people should not be detained for four weeks without giving them access to a judge. That is what the Institute of Human Rights warns is a violation of human rights. I would just like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether there is any concern about this report from the Institute for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142916-2	Indeed, I have spent the morning discussing various issues with the Institute for Human Rights, and I think that we as Parliament should be very precise and careful when working on the issues that can be discussed, i.e. whether they balance on the edge of either the conventions or the constitution. And in connection with this bill, I have noticed that there is no doubt that it is working within the framework of both the constitution and the conventions. That's why we're not worried about that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142944	There are no more brief comments. So we say thank you, sir. Mattia Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411142952	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for receiving this bill and also thank you for the debate here today. In the autumn of 2015, Denmark and Europe faced a crisis situation. Refugees and migrants fell across borders, people went on motorways, and our authorities faced a number of challenges in dealing with all the people who were almost overnight in Denmark. We had to act quickly and do something to make sure that things didn't get out of hand. That is why we introduced, among other things: the law on dealing with the refugee and migrant situation. We also introduced rules on temporary residences for refugees in the municipalities in 2015. This provided the immigration authorities and the police with a number of new tools to strengthen the possibilities of dealing with an increase in the number of refugees and migrants entering and staying in Denmark, among others. to increase opportunities for the establishment of accommodation spaces in the field of asylum. The law was also intended to ensure the maintenance of order by, inter alia: to provide for the possibility of detention on entry in order to determine the identity of asylum seekers, to register and to establish the basis for the application for asylum. In addition, the law included, among other things: the possibility of imposing more consistently rejected asylum seekers and other foreigners who are not legally resident in Denmark, reporting and residence obligations, and the rules on reporting for criminals were tightened. The law was urgently dealt with here in the Folketing in just 3 days, and therefore a provision was also inserted into the law that the law should be revised in this parliamental assembly. So that's why we're dealing with this bill here today. The situation today is significantly different from autumn 2015, as Denmark is currently experiencing low entry and asylum rates. This can change quickly, however, and it can, because the pressure on the EU's external borders remains very high and the number of refugees and migrants entering the EU across the Mediterranean remains high. It is therefore important that we take due care, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned. Only in this way can we ensure that Denmark is able to deal with the situation that we had in autumn 2015 if a similar situation should arise again. Against this background, I also believe that there is a general need to maintain the rules on dealing with the refugee and migrant situation, as well as the rules on temporary residences for refugees, so we are prepared. In my opinion, we must always be. As you know, the law also contains a so-called sunset clause. This means that three elements of the law are automatically abolished per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Firstly, the possibility of imposing on municipalities operator responsibility for asylum centres, secondly, that private operators may be authorised to assist in the exercise of authority in the field of aliens, and thirdly, the possibility of suspending, in special cases, the automatic judicial review of detainees within three days. These rules have not been applied up to now, but I nevertheless believe that there is a need for us to maintain these rules so that they remain part of the toolbox we have if our authorities suddenly need them. However, deprivation of liberty is a very intrusive measure, and that is why we are proposing the introduction of a fixed limit of four weeks for judicial review. In this way, each foreigner will be guaranteed a fixed time limit for his or her presentation or release, while at the same time the police and the courts will be given a certain length of time to deal with detention cases in a situation where there is a significant increase in the number of refugees and migrants entering the country, which is, of course, a fundamental condition for the application of the rules at all. We also propose that this clause suspending automatic judicial review within three days be repealed on 1 December 2021. In this way, we will ensure that, for a period of 3-4 years, we still retain the possibility of suspending judicial review. In addition to the review of the rules on dealing with the refugee and migrant situation and the rules on temporary residences for refugees, the draft law also provides for a change in the provision on the possibility of derogating from the law on plans in specific cases for asylum accommodation and also for detention facilities on the issue of noise exposure. The reason for this change is that it is, of course, crucial that, in a possible new mass influx of refugees and migrants to Denmark, the Foreign Affairs Council and the police have the best opportunities to quickly provide the necessary accommodation spaces and also detention facilities. In this context, the authorities should be able to set up these facilities also on noise-laden areas, but, of course, appropriate protective measures must be put in place as soon as possible. In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for your reception. I can see that there is broad support for the proposal here. And, of course, I look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143621	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143626	Thank you. According to the hearing of the Institute for Human Rights, it is, after all, contrary to the Convention on Human Rights and therefore to human rights not to allow detainees access to a judge until after four weeks. I would just like to hear from the Minister what the Minister, when she answers that she does not think it is true that it is a violation of human rights, is based on that answer and whether the Minister is aware of other Member States of the Council of Europe that have got away with doing the same, so not giving access to a judge for four weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143707	Obviously, I'm building this on a review at the Ministry. It's not like I'm just writing a bill. It is the case that we have a detailed review of the rules also in a legislative proposal like this, and this has also been explained in the draft law. On the last question concerning the countries of the Council of Europe, moreover, I am not at all aware of either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143739	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143740	Thank you. I have no doubt that the ministry is going through this minutely and that the Minister is getting a lot of insight into it. That's why I'm asking you here. Because that is clearly not clear from the draft law or from the answers to the request from the Institute for Human Rights, which is why the Minister believes that this is not a violation of human rights. And since I am sure that there has been a thorough examination over there in the Ministry, I also expect the Minister to inform Parliament of what exactly the Minister is building on his rejection of the possibility of human rights violations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143820	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143821	Well, listen to me, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. I think we had that debate already when we first had this bill on the table and where Enhedslisten was also against it. In other words, there is nothing new about Enhedslisten being opposed, and I would now like to refer to the bill where it is described.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143840	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143842	It's kind of the same thing. Well, now I totally disagree with Enhedslisten, which I am actually very grateful for, and I am thankful that I am a member of the Enhedslisten, but I just want to hear something. I do not think it is a problem to say that judicial proceedings can be suspended for longer than four weeks, and I think that is because we are talking about people seeking asylum in Denmark, where they then apply for the Danish state to protect and protect and provide money and so on, in other words different services. So I do not think it is too much to ask for the authorities to have the opportunity to use that tool if it is the case that it is difficult to establish identity and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411143931	I'd like to start by saying to Mr. Christian Langballe, that I also disagree with Enhedslisten, and I often regard it as just reason when you disagree with Enhedslisten. So I can only back that up, sir. Christian Langballe up in. Having said that, I think that there is a very good balance in saying four weeks here. If it turns out that we are being pressured and that there are very, very many asylum seekers here and that there is no time for the authorities to deal with matters, then it will always be possible to change it through urgent legislation here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411144009	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411144011	I'm kind of getting a little curious too, because why 4 weeks? Why not eight weeks? Or why not 1 year? I have such a feeling that everything that has to do with human rights is, in fact, just a little subjective and arbitrary estimates, in relation to whether it is within the dial. So it's not even for teasing that I ask. I would like to ask you a question of pure interest in understanding the process of reaching four weeks, just as it was agreed that the family reunification rules also had a time limit. So it's really of interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411144056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411144058	I do not wish to deny that a different number of weeks could have been written here, but there is, of course, a balance between whether or not the authorities can deal with the cases, and we believe that they can do so within the four weeks and how long people can actually be detained in the situation in which they are in. So things have to be proportional, and it is also so, as I said, that if there is suddenly real, real pressure on us again, we will always be able to change these things, as we did last time. So I would like to maintain that I believe that these four weeks are a very realistic offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411144143	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180411144156	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 12 April 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
