ParlaMint-DK_20180109130047	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others.: Question No. F 17 (What is the government's view that you can be sentenced to community service for perilous crime?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180109130112	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109130128	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109130207	The debate is open. This is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. I will wait a moment until everyone is out of the Chamber, at least those who are not supposed to be here. Then I think we can give the floor to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109130251	Thank you. This bill has, of course, been incredibly long along the way by the fact that we have spent a good deal of time landing the agreement that is behind it. And when there's been a lot of time along the way, it's because it's not completely unproblematic to deal with this particular area. For what we are talking about when we talk about Kofoedsminde, and that is what we are talking about when we talk about this bill, is a single special institution in Denmark which has citizens who have been convicted; that is to say, they have been convicted of a criminal relationship, but they are not punished. That is to say, they are on Kofoedsminde because they have been convicted of a criminal relationship and part of them because of paedophilia, violence or murder. So we are talking about a group that, on the one hand, has to be very careful, because it is a vulnerable group of citizens, that is why they are not criminals. On the other hand, children must also, by their very nature, be protected, for example. against the sexual abuse that some of them have been subjected to. So it's a dilemmaous sea that we're moving into, and that's also why we've spent a lot of time discussing this agreement. There have been some quite serious cases of abuse that have taken place via smartphones, simply because having access to the Internet means that you can abuse children per year. Long distance. And in the Social Democracy book, it is not the case that it is a human right to have access to smartphones. There are so many good things in human rights that we must protect one of them is not why it has been important to us that we not only agreed some things that tightened up, but that we actually agreed some things where one could see that one could prevent crime from happening inside Kofoedsminde. We believe that, after long wrangling and many discussions, many turning things upside down and trying again, we have reached a solution where we come closer to being able to do exactly that. So it's part of this bill that we're giving the opportunity to ban phones with Internet access. Then we also open up the possibility of having a shielding room. In fact, we have had a great deal of discussion about this. And when we support it, it is because we believe in many cases that it will reduce the use of force against the citizen. When you need a shielding room, it can typically be because a citizen is outgoing, and if you do not have a shielding room in that situation, the only way to pacify people is by using physical force. It can be seriously intrusive to the citizen; it can also be very dangerous for the person who has to do the procedure. There can be a guard room where you keep visual and otherwise auditive contact with the citizen, being milder both for the citizen, but also for those who work at Kofoedsminde. So this is a way to protect and manage a violence incident on Kofoedsminde, which we believe is milder both to the employees and to the inmates in the goose-eyes. That is why we are very pleased that we have got it in that way. You have to be very careful when you screen off when you are dealing with citizens, such as myself. In other words, the extent to which the citizen can tolerate, as it were, being shielded. In other words, this just doing so in the same way that you can do it in an ordinary prison is simply not good for this group of citizens because it would be an attack on the citizen. That is always the balance we have to strike when we talk about citizens who are punished for quite serious matters, but who are freed from punishment because, for example, they are not. can have a disability like being under development; we must take care of the citizen who sits on Kofoedsminde, too. That is what the debate on the agreement has been about. It's the same when we talk about opening letters. It is also very intrusive in terms of privacy, and it has been important to us that when a letter is opened, it is in order to ascertain whether there are unlawful circumstances in relation to the correspondence that has been made. It is not because you have to read the letters that are exchanged. It is also written into the text, and we are very pleased with that too. So, overall, it can be said that we actually think it has been beneficial that we have spent so much time on it, because it means that we have got what is the problem, that is, that criminal acts are carried out per person. I can see from the fact that there is Internet access, while at the same time we have provided some tools that the Kofoedsminde staff have also expressed a positive opinion on. So we think we have hit the balances very well, and that is why the Social Democrats can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109130729	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109130743	Thank you. With this bill, a legal basis will be created for the operator to decide that a number of intervention options can be introduced which can be used in secured settlements under Section 108 of the Services Act. The aim of the bill is to maintain the order and security of settlements with secure departments and to prevent new crime. The additional measures are intended to be used only in situations where necessary and where the social education effort has been tried but has not been sufficient. Region Sjælland and Kofoedsminde have also requested increased intervention possibilities. There is only one residence in Denmark that has a secure department for the disabled, and that is Kofoedsminde. Kofoedsminde houses persons who have received a conviction or who have been sentenced to a measure in an open or secure environment. Some of the residents of Kofoedsminde have a terms of punishment that prohibit them from having unsupervised access to the phone and internet. In order to prevent residents with surveillance of telephone and internet access from getting their hands on phones, smartphones or the like from residents without such judgment terms, residents with judgment terms are placed in a separate and secured department. In practice, however, it is unfortunately sometimes the case that a resident with terms of conviction about supervised access to the phone and internet gets a phone, a smartphone or the like via the other residents. And that happens because the residents are hanging out with each other, for example. in employment. Against this background, a majority in the Folketing considered that there is a need for a legal basis for a ban on devices allowing Internet access in boforms with secure departments. It should also be seen in the light of cases in which paedophiles have had contact with minors over the Internet. The ban is also intended to prevent paedophiles from ordering, for example. rapes of minors over the net. In addition, the ban could also prevent those placed in custody from ordering illegal objects over the Internet, such as: drugs and weapons. In the Danish People's Party we have recommended that you use jamming. This is also the case at Security, where the most dangerous insane criminals in the country are. And it is one of the best and most effective solutions to prevent residents from accessing the Internet. We also hope that, in time, a good solution will come when jamming has been tested, but unfortunately it has turned out to be a long-term process. Only in 2021 will the Ministry decide whether there is still a need for the proposed legal basis that we are giving now, because only then has the possibility of jamming the Internet signal been investigated. The bill also provides for the possibility of using scanners for personal examination and allows staff to examine the living quarters of the person placed, e.g.: where there is a reasonable suspicion that the person placed is in possession of effects liable to threaten the order or safety of the accommodation. That is why I can only say that after the lengthy discussions we have had it has been a long process, because we had the discussions where it should only be about Kofoedsminde and not other boformers so I think we have achieved a good consensus in the contract circle, and that is why we support the bill in the Danish People's Party, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131118	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131132	Happy New Year, everyone. The Left can support the draft law on the same grounds that the two previous rapporteurs have so thoroughly and well described. With regard to the consultation notes, three organisations in particular have been a little concerned, and I think there is something that is characteristic of all the concerns. It is clear that we must always be aware of the concerns about something that can be interpreted as increased access to coercion, but it is important for me to stress here that this is about opening up opportunities, but not that it is something that needs to be imposed. And, as Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil said so well, it can be less compulsive in this situation to give a tool for coercion, shielding, because the alternative had been retention. That is also the approach that must be taken in relation to the other measures that we are now opening up to. The Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131245	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131301	The proposal here allegedly has as its main objective the need to ensure that the already existing access in the Services Act to restrict access to the Internet and telephone for a small group of convicted citizens with extensive disabilities can, so to speak, be enforced more effectively. Of course there is no objection to this in itself, because it is a group of people who have been sentenced, including those who have been sentenced. have used their Internet access to abuse of minors and, of course, should not be able to continue to commit these abuses during the placement. Despite this, we in the Enhedslist believe that the proposal before us is even very problematic. Although the purpose is right, it must be said here too that the purpose in itself does not justify the means. We believe that there are major problems in the means which the proposal will allow to be used. First of all, it is quite incomprehensible to us that, in order to improve the enforcement of restricted access to the telephone and internet, we should say and write, as is now the case, because we are talking about only one settlement offer, three Kofoedsminde citizens, who have a condition in their criminal convictions of such a restriction, while at the same time allowing for action against 67 other citizens who do not have a similar judgment. According to the law, this is done because it happens sometimes that residents with the above judgment conditions get a smartphone, an iPad, what do I know, via one of the other residents when they are together in connection with the protected employment. It is clear that this is of course a problem, but in the view of Enhedslisten, it cannot justify the establishment of a general ban on smartphones, iPads, or whatever it may be, on the entire settlement offer, so as to take action against the 95%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the House for its support for this report. This is a very intrusive measure, as is written in several of the consultation responses to the draft law. Access to mobile phones and the Internet is crucial for the ability of many people to maintain contact with family and friends, and it is simply not acceptable, in our view, for them to be deprived of this opportunity simply because they have been placed on the same housing offer as residents who have had their access to mobile phones and internet restricted by judgment. In our view, a general ban is not a proportionate measure in relation to the problem which, as I said, we fully recognise that a solution must be found, and that is why, in our view, there must be other ways of dealing with it, even if, of course, it will require more staff resources, and it is perhaps here that we can put our finger on the real problem. We are also concerned about the new possibility of the use of force, which is being opened up by the clause on shielding rooms. Although we can see that the provisions are soft compared to the original draft law, we do not think it is acceptable to deal with the challenges that are undoubtedly with very outgoing citizens by isolating them in special shelters. All in all, we believe that the proposal contains provisions which unduly restrict the rights of a group of citizens with far-reaching disabilities, and provisions which present a very significant risk of further progress towards replacing care and social education with the use of force. The Enhedslisten cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131656	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131700	Well, sometimes there are problems you have to solve. So the thing about saying that there has to be a solution is that I would like to hear what is all about. Because we have been over this issue from an incredible number of points of view, because of course the Social Democrats also have a wish that citizens who have not done anything criminal in connection with the Internet should have access to the Internet. It has been solved in such a way that there is a computer room, and it is unimaginably a few years ago that it was actually our only option to be on the Internet. So it is not because someone has been cut off from the possibility of being on the Internet. They can only be in certain rooms, and thus you can check who goes in and out. What is precisely the problem with giving some, but not others, access to smartphones is that then you can threaten it, which means that you then expose others to a safety risk. So we've been through that solution, and that's why it's just interesting for me to hear more about it. Because when Enhedslisten says so here, the Enhedslisten must have an idea of what should be instead. 'Cause you can't just do it. If everyone did what the Enhedslisten did, there was no solution, and Ergo, there would still be the legislation in force today, and Ergo, crime could still be committed over the Internet. So what is Enhedslisten's solution to this? Because I assume that Enhedslisten also believes that action should be taken to prevent rape from being ordered over the Internet from Kofoedsminde.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131812	Yes, we believe that this should be avoided, and that is why I said as I did in my rapporteur's speech. I think it is striking to say that where the problem arises is that, in the context of protected employment, some of the three citizens who are convicted with this limited Internet access are given the opportunity to acquire the telephones of the other residents. I think, why don't you go in there and try to solve that? This is also pointed out in several of the consultations. That is exactly what some of the stakeholders in this area are pointing out: why do you not go in and find such a solution? Another option is to go in and see if there is a need for a larger staff resource. It's one of the ways you deal with a lot of problems in this area, so there's close personal contact. In any case, it cannot be the case that having a problem to be solved in relation to one group of citizens leads to a reduction in the rights of other citizens who are not subject to the same judgments at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131922	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109131924	It would require a man's cover, which is not customary in Kofoedsminde. Because by its very nature it will be the case that if there are no constant and constant staff, there could be a mobile phone coming from one person to another. Well, these aren't cell phones like old times, after all, where they were big blocks. It's something you can carry on you and so can give to someone else. So it would require an extremely intrusive situation for all citizens if they were to say that there should be sufficient staff to avoid telephones being given from one to the other. And that is why we are choosing a solution where they say: there is fine access to the Internet. It's just in separate rooms. So I would just like to ask whether the Enhedslisten does not recognise that this solution avoids a situation where some citizens may be at risk because some might threaten to have mobile phones.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132013	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132014	Yeah, well, you do. I wouldn't dispute that at all. But that's the cost I'm contesting. And if you look at it as if you were one of the 67 citizens who are now deprived of their right of access, what are you going to give them for reasons? Yes, it is that they randomly no, not coincidentally, for there is only one in the country that has been placed on a settlement offer along with some who have the given judgment. And then you have to consider separating them. I am open to a view that it is probably expensive to separate the three residents who have the judgment in question from the other residents. But that could be the consequence. The consequence can never be the withdrawal of freedoms from the 67 citizens who have had them so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132106	Then Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, has a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132110	Thank you. Does the Enhedslisten not agree that no one is deprived of their freedom unless it is absolutely necessary? That is precisely what the draft law says, namely that social educational initiatives and other measures must be tested before force is used. Enhedslisten also mentions shielding rooms, and I understand that Enhedslisten has some concerns, and of course you must always have that when you use force, but if the alternative is that you have to be strapped to the belt for 12 hours, is a guard room where you come and fall to the ground for 2 hours with surveillance from the staff and access to the toilet, then not better than if you had to be strapped for 12 hours or longer?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132158	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132200	I have noted that in some of the much material we have received in this matter there are views that are called: something else could be worse. But basically, I think it is very wrong that you can put citizens in solitary confinement, otherwise you should have the authority to do the same as you do in the bill here. I can see that, for example. The National Federation of Social Pedagogues, which organizes 60-70 per cent. of the employees who are in the field, and in this way can be in very close contact with the field of practice, have exactly the same view. So I think we should have listened to those who are in practice and failed to include such a provision in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132241	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132243	Does the Enhedslisten recognize that there has been a demand for increased intervention both from the Region of Zealand and from Kofoedsminde by the staff who work with these sentenced people? They have sought action from the parties of the Folketing. This is not something we decide for our blue eyes. It is also a question of ensuring that those who have been convicted do not continue their attacks on, among others. Little girls. There are, of course, convicted of the murder of a four-year-old girl who has continued to violate and molest the Internet. I'd like to hear what Enhedslisten will do instead. What is the solution on the part of Enhedslisten to accommodate the Region of Zealand and Kofoedsminde, i.e. the staff who have called for these interventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132336	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132338	I think I have already answered that in my reply to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil. I believe that there should have been a look at whether to resolve the problem of protected employment. That is at least what is stated in the legislative notes, so I assume that this is where the problem has been, otherwise it would probably have been written something else in the legislative notes, or ultimately made sure that there is a complete separation, so that there was not just a settlement offer, but more. In any case, to say that the solution is to restrict the rights of 67 citizens who have nothing whatsoever to do with the criminal acts carried out by the other three, I simply do not think acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132421	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132423	Thank you. I'm just a little interested to hear why Enhedslisten thinks the right thing to do is to separate the citizens from each other, i.e. the 67 from the 3. After all, we heard from the institution, from the staff, that the 3 work and thrive best with the others. So isolating the three citizens is not something the professional recommend to do, for the sake of the well-being of these three citizens. So why is it that Enhedslisten thinks it is the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132453	In other words, we recognise that the use of force may be necessary. We also agree with the fact that we ourselves have voted in favour of the fact that it is now intended to tighten up the enforcement of the principle of preventing individuals from having access to the Internet. What is crucial is whether it really should be so that, because there is a need for a type of use of force against three citizens, where there is a specific problem, the same use of force must be applied to 67 citizens who do not have that problem. That's where we have the problem. So it is not the use of force that stems from the need for specific citizens where the use of force is needed, but from the fact that it is used indiscriminately against other citizens. That is simply not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132542	Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132544	No, I understand that, and we also agree a great deal that it is a pity that we should do so. But that's not what I was asking. I asked about Enhedslisten's proposal to solve the challenge we face with the three citizens. The rapporteur points out that your proposal is that they should be separated, that the three citizens should live in isolation from the other citizens. And I just ask: why do you think it is right to do so when the staff of the institution strongly advises against doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132616	Thank you. Don't hesitate to indict directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132621	What I said quite explicitly was that in the legislative notes it says that where the problem arises is in protected employment. That is why it is my view, Mr Enhedslisten's view, that when that is what is said as the problem, that is where the problem must be solved. And then I said that if you can't solve it in the way you supposedly have to understand you could solve it, you have to consider dividing up the settlement offer. At least it cannot be the right solution to deprive citizens of rights because there is a problem with the use of force against other citizens. The use of force must be linked to the needs of the individual citizen and must not be carried out arbitrarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132705	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the end of the brief remarks. Then it is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132714	Thank you. As has been explained, this proposal will increase and clarify the scope for intervention in relation to people with mental impairment who are placed in an institution on the basis of a criminal offence. In Denmark, as you know, we have only one form of residence in relation to this, namely the secured department for the disabled Kofoedsminde in Lolland. In the light of cases where paedophilia was convicted, despite an unsupervised ban on Internet access, yet it has been possible to access sex chat and child pornography, we also want, of course, to tighten up. The pros and cons of this proposal have been explained, and it is quite right, as the previous rapporteur has also said, that it may seem very intrusive, but it must of course also be the case that someone who has a conviction not to use the Internet unsupervised does not have free access to the area and, with the opportunities offered by this proposal, should of course use it narrowly and only where necessary, and we should also pay attention to this in the future. But of course the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132825	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109132835	Thank you. The purpose of the bill is to maintain order and security at the institution Kofoedsminde. The alternative, of course, agrees that it is absolutely essential to maintain order and security for both staff and staff in such institutions. However, the draft law is about very extensive powers, which are very intrusive to those who have been placed, as is also evident from a large number of the consultations. We do not think it is clear that there is a clear need for all the coercive measures. This is also not the opinion of a large number of key players in the field, according to their consultation responses. That is why we are voting against the proposal as a starting point. An important problem at Kofoedsminde, which is also highlighted in the consultation answers, is a lack of professional skills among some of the staff, as there is a imbalance between unskilled and skilled workers. There we believe that coercion must never replace social and social education knowledge and efforts, and we therefore believe that this problem should be tackled instead. The citizens' group at Kofoedsminde and its complex needs require a high, high level of professionalism, which must be taken seriously and given high priority. The bill contains six different options for intervention with regard to the caretaker and their relatives. The alternative is sceptical about the proposal on banning devices that can allow Internet access. It is clear that the people who are placed there who are likely to continue their crime, not least paedophilia, must be denied access to the Internet. However, I think we should show so much creativity that we will find a solution that will ensure that all the other residents who do not abuse trust have access to the Internet, not only in computer rooms but also in their private rooms. Then we are particularly sceptical about the last point concerning a guard room that has been debated and with good reason. Screening means that you can lock the housed up for up to 2 hours. This constitutes a major interference in people's personal freedom and, according to the National Association, LEV is part of a broad social policy shift towards extended powers of intervention and power towards people with disabilities. LEV also points out that we risk this in some cases being replaced by social and social educational efforts of a more preventive nature, which is totally unacceptable. The association is sceptical of the Minister's expectation that the use of the cloakroom will reduce the number of uses of force, and also believes that the shielding space may lead to a number of indirect negative consequences for the placed and more generally for the relational educational environment at Kofoedsminde. A high level of professionalism, relational work and pedagogy must be given priority in the work of vulnerable groups. This is supported by the Social Pedagogics' response to the consultation, in which they stress that the use of unskilled personnel with only a few hours of training is problematic. The citizens' group and the legislation in this area require high professionalism, and this must therefore never be replaced. We have discussed this here in the Ministry of Social Affairs during the drafting of this law for Kofoedsminde, and I hope that we can discuss it further in committee and adjust the two points I have mentioned so that, as fortunately often happens in the Committee on Social Affairs, we can adopt this law by a broad majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109133148	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109133158	Thank you, sir. President. It is a very delicate matter, as has also been shown by the exchanges that have taken place today, about the treatment of L 119, and that is when we want to protect a citizen from getting into more difficulties than he already is, while at the same time safeguarding the rights and security of the citizen. It is the special and very vulnerable group we are talking about here that needs that duality to a great extent. As I have said, the citizen has already been punished for a crime and placed in a special institution because of that crime and, at the same time, we must prevent new crime from happening. I have very, very much respect for the people who work on Kofoedsminde, which is the institution we are talking about, and I have a great deal of respect for the leadership that is there and for the various professional groups that are also on the ground, and I therefore hope, of course, that we will do what we will do in so many other institutions too, namely to discuss the policy and the way in which the professional policy is handled, which is to ensure the safety of the citizen and the tasks of ensuring that the citizen does not go into further misfortune. I also think it is important that there are educational staff present, that they are part of the professional environment on the ground, and that they should also be involved in teaching towards a citizen who is placed on Kofoedsminde as a punishment measure, so that educational efforts have also been tried before going to the additional opportunities proposed by the draft law. It is clearly a balancing act, but one must also hope for it, and I am confident that the professionalism that exists in Kofoedsminde will also be used to deal with this situation in the most gentle way in the interests of the entire situation around the citizen concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109133401	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved, there are no brief comments. And welcome to Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109133409	First of all, I would like to thank you for the long and, indeed, very constructive course of negotiations we have had on this legislation, even if the SF is not going to support it as it currently stands. The complex needs of vulnerable citizens should not be met with coercion, but with the right professional effort and quality in the places where they live. This also applies to citizens in secure departments such as Kofoedsminde, against whom this bill is directed. However, in some specific contexts it may be appropriate to extend the scope for control, for example. use of scanners, opening and checking of mail and investigation and storing effects from visitors. Of course, it must be ensured that no serious, illegal and dangerous effects are introduced, but electronic scanners and test methods should be used if possible, because it will often be less intrusive for the individual. Personal examination may, if performed respectfully, be okay. As I read the bill, it will still be the case that body search to the naked body is a police task. It is not compatible with the social and educational task carried out on Kofoedsminde. With regard to the prohibition of devices allowing Internet access, I understand very well the explanatory statement, namely that those convicted, who have a judgment in which they cannot have access to Internet sites and communications, must be prevented from doing so. However, I do not believe that the solution to collective exclusion from having a mobile phone, tablet or anything else with Internet access is the right one. In their reply to the hearing, the Lawyers' Council points out that this is a problem of legal certainty in relation to the fact that all residents other than the very few who have received this judgment are restricted without any justification or right of appeal. It's not the residents themselves who decide who they live with. Perhaps it also says that many citizens with different needs have been placed in the same place. Perhaps one should consider whether Kofoedsminde in one location is reaching its maximum size, also in relation to the professional environment. The solution could be for the Region of Zealand to set up a branch somewhere else in the region, possibly as a sister offer in the same structural setup. Then there is the question of isolation, which is the main reason why the SF cannot support the bill. This is a very intrusive form of force use and we are concerned about the proposal to be able to use a shielding room for up to 2 hours at a time. If abused, it can be used as punishment or consequence. These are people who are less developed and who are able to react in an extremely negative way. They can retreat if they are exposed to isolation as it is, even if it is referred to as a shielding room. If it is used with the utmost care and professionalism, however, it may require an extremely strong professionalism and expertise to assess it in the specific situation. I do not see that the bill is being followed up by demands that the institution guaranteed should work with professionalism, educational culture, etc., which could help to reduce the use of force, or that, at least, we could be sure that if we extend the powers, there are also the relevant competences. I do not think it is enough for a remark to be made that only trained professional staff can decide on the use of a shelter. It is, after all, the professional culture that is being developed over time that helps to define the extent to which placement sites can work preventative and conflict-reducing. One cannot simply make a law that extends power without addressing the training background and level of the employees. That is why I would like to ask in committee what the distribution is between educationally trained staff and unskilled staff at Kofoedsminde. What training are they offered to meet the complex needs of citizens? And I want to be part of the scope of the use of external temporary workers and how to make sure that they have the necessary skills to work with citizens on such complex issues. What introduction do they get to work, what demands are made on them compared to the demands of permanent staff? It should of course be the case that the most vulnerable citizens, with the most complex problems, are given the most qualified effort, because if professionalism is not there, the need for power increases and their use risks not being followed by the necessary professional reflection. The way to reduce the use of force and thereby strengthen citizens' rights in the area of freedom of movement, communication, etc. is professionalism and competence to reflect on their own practices. Professionals must over time build up some professional environments that focus on reducing power and frequent processing and reflection on the situations where power is used. If we succeed, we can see that the number of uses of force is falling and the seriousness is reduced. By this I mean that a certain professional marker must be required if there is to be a very intrusive transfer of powers to places of placement. For example: frequent and extensive use of external temporary agency agencies typically does not help to strengthen the professional reflection of offers on their own practices, including the use of force. So the way the bill is now, the SF cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109134000	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109134010	Thank you. The draft law here, L 119, has been under way over several years, and over the long period we have been dealing with the matter. We've had deputies, including the leader from Kofoedsminde. On the whole, there's been thoroughness about this. What is happening is that we will have an opportunity to enforce the Services Act more effectively. That's the starting point for this. We must remember that it is about people who are punished for criminal matters but who are not punished, and here we have Kofoedsminde. Access to the Internet and access to a smartphone are not human rights. We are still giving away the opportunity to go on the Internet in a closed room where there is scope for surveillance, so we are not cutting these people off from the Internet, as we must say is being a human right today. But it's not a human right to be able to use a smartphone all over Kofoedsminde. As far as guard rooms are concerned, it appears that in many cases it can be milder than retention. It's also been a wish from the employees that you had this opportunity, and that's what we're giving the opportunity in this bill. Then there are scans of letters and being able to open messages, investigate and store effects, etc. that make good sense. Overall, I think we should bear in mind that it is, of course, a wish that has come from managers and staff to have these opportunities. These are opportunities that can now be used, but it is not the case that we are legally establishing that this should be done, but it is a tool for enforcing the Services Act. So the Conservative People's Party says yes to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109134254	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. And then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109134307	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteurs for the debate. It is not very often that we are actually being thanked for a lengthy course of negotiations, but I would like to say that it is noted here. And I would also like to sign for the reception and debate that has been held in the Chamber today. The general aim of the draft law is to enable the staff of Kofoedsminde to maintain order and security, and to prevent or prevent the staff placed from continuing their criminal career within the walls of the estate. So we have to remember that we are dealing with people who have committed dangerous crimes, such as those in the United Kingdom. arson, robbery, rape or murder, and where there is a risk that they will commit renewed personal crime, as has been said several times. And then it's a bill that only applies to Kofoedsminde. I believe that we have a great responsibility to prevent, for example, the fact that we are not going to be able to do so. pedophiles may continue to contact minors over the network. And I think we were all appalled when we saw that one morning's newspaper revealed that, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl of the Danish People's Party mentioned, there were paedophiles who had had Internet access and thus had chat and had contact with young girls. I fully understand that we cannot simply ignore this and, as the Social Democrats also said, what the next step will be with the opportunities that exist today. It is not just chat contact; it could potentially be ordering rape or even worse. So I am really pleased that we are now giving more tools to staff to prevent those who have a judgment on supervised access to the Internet from having access to the Internet. That is why we also need the additional means of intervention here. It is clear that I am, of course, available to answer questions during the committee procedure. I would also like to conclude by saying that I am also pleased with the rather lengthy course of negotiations. I think that we have had a lot of stones turned around, and I also think that it has been a negotiation process that has shown us that it has been complicated, but where we have therefore also found solutions when we have encountered challenges along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109134530	Thank you, Minister. It didn't raise any questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109134549	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109134617	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating today will require the government to change the central reimbursement system so that the municipalities get more in reimbursement for expenses in particularly expensive individual cases in the social field. The reason is that the proposers believe that the municipalities are today so pressured on the economy that they ignore the needs of the citizens when dealing with cases. In concrete terms, it is proposed that the reimbursement limits should be reduced so that the State will in future pay 50%. in reimbursement for the costs of the municipality exceeding DKr 600,000. Every year for a single citizen, and today the state provides 25 per cent. - reimbursement of the costs to a single citizen over 18 years of age exceeding approx. 1 million kr., and 50 per cent. in the form of reimbursement for expenditure exceeding 2 million for a single citizen. kr. And for the record, I would just like to point out that the change in the reimbursement limits from 2007 to 2010 was part of the original political settlement from 2005. That is why it has always been assumed that the limits would be raised, as has also been the case. I would also like to point out that the rules on the system of subsidies and compensation do not fall within my area of responsibility. In other words, national compensation, capital compensation and other exciting types of compensation are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, just in order to establish it, and so my comments on the motion for a resolution must also be linked solely to the central reimbursement system, which is therefore a provision of the Services Act under my area of responsibility. So let me start by saying that the intention of the proposal is quite understandable, in other words, vulnerable citizens and citizens with reduced functional capacity must have the help they are entitled to, and they must have the help they so need, and we must safeguard their legal certainty. I fully agree with that. If, overall, the government takes the view that the proposal should be rejected, then it should be seen in the light that we have a concern that the resolution will not help the individual vulnerable citizen, and there are, in fact, a number of good reasons for rejecting the proposal on the basis of the needs of the citizen. Firstly, I do not recognize the description by the proposers of the fact that, as the rules are today, the municipalities have a greater incentive to give financial consideration to the obligation to offer the best bets for the individual citizen. In fact, I believe that we have found a sensible balance between these two considerations. We ensure that small municipalities have the economy to deal with the particularly expensive individual cases. That is what the purpose of the redistribution is, and at the same time we also ensure that the redistribution is of a size which means that there is an incentive to use resources in the most efficient way possible in each municipality. That is the balance today, and there is really good sense in that, because, in the end, it should be of benefit to the citizen's needs. Secondly, when the government disagrees with the proposers, it is because, in addition, the proposal may have some inappropriate consequences which may lead to a disadvantage for the citizen. First of all, I can have the concern that an increased possibility for municipalities to take back reimbursements, which is therefore financed by the block subsidy, can shift to the fundamental principle of the strength of the municipalities' economy, in which decision-making and financial responsibility is, as it were, followed. For basically it is the case that when you pay the bill yourself, you also show more austerity, and hopefully you also make wiser decisions, and that ultimately benefits the citizens of each municipality, and I do not assume that there are so many who disagree. However, the main reason, the absolutely essential reason why the government cannot support this proposal, is, in my opinion, that a change in the reimbursement can have an impact on the preventive and rehabilitating work of the municipalities. In other words, if you lower the reimbursement limits, it will be less attractive for municipalities to allocate money to often less costly initiatives, that is to say preventive initiatives, and it will be more economically advantageous and more attractive to place citizens in offers which will ultimately give rise to reimbursement. So in the same way, it can be difficult to see the incentive to work rehabilitatingly with citizens, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So here we see the contours of a really, really bad and unfortunate economic incentive, and this would be inappropriate for the municipalities' long-term economy. But worst of all, it will be bad for the citizen who needs precisely the preventive and rehabilitating efforts to maintain or improve his or her level of mental or physical function, and I think that we basically agree on that. So, overall, the position of the government is therefore that the resolution is rejected and I share the concern of the authors of the motion for a resolution as to whether the proper financial framework is made available to the municipalities, but I really believe that the purpose of the proposal is already being achieved today and that the proposed amendment of the scheme is therefore liable to upset the balance that I mentioned just now. Instead, I would very much like to emphasise that the government, together with the parties behind the rate pool, has agreed on an action plan which, through a series of targeted initiatives, must strengthen the quality of municipal proceedings, precisely in order to address the concerns that could exist and, above all, in order to address citizens' legal certainty. Then we have the very last, namely that the government cannot support a 500 million increase in the service framework. kr., and this is related to the reply previously given by the Ministry of Taxation to the proposers, which shows that the tax on pension payments of more than DKK 300,000 is detrimental to the supply of labour and savings. So, a receipt for the very desire to help the citizen, that desire shares the government, but with the concrete solution that lies here, we cannot support it as a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135229	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135233	I am at least pleased that the Minister thinks that the intention is good in our proposal. The Minister says that the right level of economic incentives has been hit in this area today. A major reason why we are putting the proposal forward is that we can see that there are take-backs which indicate that they have an economic incentive. Not least, we can see that there are a great many errors in the municipal procedure which suggest that there is a very border-seeking handling of the case in many municipalities. Does the Minister not agree at all that there is much to suggest that the economic structure in this area is helping to promote the search for cheaper solutions for citizens rather than taking greater economic considerations into account, and does the Minister not agree that with the many errors in this area, there are indications that the economic incentives are not quite as they should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135346	I think what I said was that I think the right balance has been struck. And then I would say that I kind of share Enhedslisten's focus that there are too many mistakes in cases and there are too many changes. When we can see in the children's handicap area that there is a conversion rate of 48, it is very high, and it is of course with the knowledge that the conversion rate can of course cover very many types of change. It may be the quite ugly ones who have made the wrong decision in terms of content, to the a little more low-practical, in other words, that there is only some information that has not been obtained or that the citizen has not been able to be consulted, for example, in order to be able to hear the citizen. But this is something that we have had a great deal of focus on both up to the rate pool negotiations and also in the course of the wage pool negotiations, and we will, in fact, also be dealing with it in the future, because we have had a Danish map, a clothesline, where we show the conversion rates for all the municipalities, and where we therefore have a common position that the conversion rates should be reduced and that we will not accept that they are so high. Then we simply do it legally that, from now on, in any municipal council, the debate on the level of service and the rate of conversion that you have has to be taken up. This will, in fact, be something that I am convinced will move in a positive direction, in other words towards a reduction in turnover.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135520	It could be refreshing if we started the new year by giving completely free speaking time, but we have not decided yet. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135530	The Minister is quite right that the movement that has taken place in relation to the amount from which the reimbursement is taken is something that happened with an increase in the limits as a result of the municipal reform. They did indeed rise from seven up to eight and nine. I think there may be some sense in saying that the municipalities themselves have a considerable responsibility for where the reasonable level is, but then I just want to hear the Minister: is it not very violent that you have to rise to a cost that is more than 1 million? kr. in a single case before there is as much as a bucked penny in reimbursement from the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135619	I just think it is important to pay attention to the fact that if you adjust the reimbursement limits, there will be a number of unintended problems, and I can be genuinely concerned that, in the end, you will not be helping the people who both Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj and I are kind of willing to help. Then it may risk going beyond the rehabilitating effort, and it may also go beyond preventive action, and I do not think there is any interest in ending up there. So it doesn't matter that there is a certain balance here, where on the one hand you have a municipality, which of itself assumes to pay the bill, and on the other hand, if it is a very high cost, then you step in and thus have a higher refund limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135706	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for her. The first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Orla Hav of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109135721	The track is, after all, like the chalk for what motion for a resolution B 27 is about: increased reimbursement to municipalities for particularly expensive individual cases in the social field. The motion for a resolution forms part of an old one, some would say very Personally I have participated in the work on a fifty-fifty model, later it became a basic tariff model, which, moreover, is somewhat similar to what Enhedslisten is proposing here today. Now we have the economic governance model, which is a consequence of the municipal reform. Basically, I don't think there's that there are so many elements of gordic knot in this that it's really hard to figure out if there should be the right model. But it is unfortunate that it is such a Gordian knot-problematics because it affects some groups that have a great need to experience a society that is behind when there is a need for a welfare society and some specific professional competences. For this reason, we in the Socialist Group have sympathy for the debate on the motion for a resolution and, if necessary, to focus on whether or not some changes can be made. Sympathy is largely based on the fact that we give priority to people who have a special need because they are born with or have acquired a disability or disability. We are in favour of the statement that the quality of a society must be assessed on how it treats its weakest. One aspect which may not have such a prominent place in the discussion is whether the economy which is at the root of professionalism also provides room for the creation and maintenance of professionalism. For decades, Denmark has been a leader in the development of methods, professionalism and technology in terms of helping to compensate for job losses. Let me just mention the development of scripture for our blind, our strong position in terms of technology as hearing aids, or the leading position we had at least when it came to the development of methods for deaf-blind people, just to mention a few of the development tasks involved in helping people with disabilities. It is obvious that we do not think that the municipal economy should be cut off from the relevant aid. On the other hand, we probably never get into a situation where the economy does not play a role either. It is important that small and poor municipalities, which have high social costs, are compensated. That is why we welcome the reimbursement system, and we would like to emphasise that the previous government took the initiative to secure the economy of very expensive placements in the area of children and young people. Although we are sympathetic to the problem here, we reject the concrete proposal because we do not know the full consequences of the proposal, including the redistribution between municipalities. It may well be necessary to follow up regularly so that the reimbursement is fair and good. It must never be the municipality's economy that determines whether a citizen gets the right effort. For us, it is important to be financially responsible, and that is why we also need to know more about the economic consequences of the proposal before we change the rules. We would like to invite the Minister to take a closer look at the issue and to take part in the discussion on it, and we can understand that there is also a good deal of work to be done in the context of the pool discussions on the developments that have taken place since the municipal reform. We would like to help to see whether it is necessary to change something in this context... but we say no to B 27.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140122	Thank you, sir. Orla Hav. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140130	I am aware that the rapporteur has been dealing with the area for many years and has been following the move of the whole of this area from the old counties to the municipalities on the very nearest level. Does the rapporteur not agree that the transfer of responsibility from the old counties to the individual municipalities has made the area very economically vulnerable and that, with the limits that are now, with the cost of more than one million, we have a system which makes the distribution of funds in this area too arbitrary or arbitrary?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140214	Yes, I agree that the impact of shifting expenditure to a smaller unit of population, to the municipal economy, is going to be somewhat greater than if you had an entire region to take part in the responsibility. And this is a problem that we should be aware of, and that is also why we indicate that we want to help to see whether we have found the right cut. I don't think the right cut exists, but then a fairer cut in the area. So this isn't the last time we get this discussion, and we're happy and happy to have the discussion, because it's important that we focus on how we help those who need help after these paragraphs we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140302	I considered inquisitorically asking where the limits would then be, but I think instead of just saying that I am pleased with the announcement. I think it's really important that we get a look at this, and it's also not Enhedslisten's opinion that we've necessarily found a Columbus egg, but that this could be an indication of how we found a better distribution. That's all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140326	Well, then, let us keep track of how this area is developing and take the discussions that are needed for the benefit of the groups that are going to have a helping hand. I agree with the Minister that it is not a beautiful statistic that is being presented when the rate of change for the country averages 48%. This is not acceptable, and it is simply not right in relation to the families and the people it involves. So there's a need for us to keep a close eye on this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140354	Thank you, sir. Orla Hav and welcome to Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140404	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for putting the important area, also for the Danish People's Party, on the agenda. This resolution is, after all, about very expensive and complicated personal cases that challenge several municipalities' budgets quite strongly. In the Danish People's Party we have long been preoccupied with these expensive individual cases and also the personal and family fates behind them. It is from a number of points of view that the proposers have also described in this proposal. Firstly, we are concerned that the professionalism of the developments we have seen in the last few years, when the municipalities take citizens to their own homes, does not follow, as there are often few citizens in each municipality who demand these very special and complex things. For example, we can mention citizens with brain damage. In the Danish People's Party we would have preferred to have seen that the municipalities had continued to avail themselves of the established special offers, which have the competence and competence. I know from my own experience also from the work in KKR that in the past there has also been a great focus on strengthening cooperation between municipalities and regional institutions. The second major problem we have unfortunately begun to see is that of social exports, where the large cities and cities around Copenhagen export citizens who have social problems and are economically heavy. These citizens are helped to move to municipalities that are already burdened by many citizens outside the labour market with low or no education and with social challenges in the family and where jobs are scarce. We get a divided Denmark, where we get A and B municipalities, and where the citizen does not experience the same level of service in the welfare area, as the economy in these municipalities is much more pressured than in the large cities. In the Danish People's Party, we are incredibly concerned about stopping social exports and the fact that as a society we contribute socially to solving these heavy citizens' cases. Having said that, I must say that we cannot support this resolution. Firstly, we do not agree with the proposers' financing of the proposal which seeks to increase the block subsidy by half a billion and will find the money by taxing pension schemes. Just before Christmas, we have adopted a Finance Act for 2018, and the Danish People's Party is of course the target. Secondly, we are awaiting a statement from the Committee on Finance on the reorganization or adjustment of the compensatory reform, as the Minister for the Interior says. In the Danish People's Party we would like to see a comprehensive restructuring of the compensatory reform, so that we get a Denmark in better balance. The cost of the expensive individual cases is clearly a point that the Danish People's Party will be involved in these negotiations. So I now call on the Minister of Social Affairs to talk to his fellow minister over at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs about thinking about the expensive individual cases and, in particular, the shape of the economy around them into a new compensatory reform, which, as you know, will be the subject of negotiations this spring and will enter into force on 1 January 2019. So the Danish People's Party does not support this motion for a resolution, but we look forward to including it in the forthcoming negotiations on a compensatory reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140745	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Sølvhøj mound
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140749	I therefore welcome the rapporteur's comments and his approach to the proposal. All I have to do is ask in cash: should I understand that it is the funding alone that the Danish People's Party cannot support and that one would have agreed with the proposal if another funding had been found?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140810	No, it is not only the funding, it is also the timing of it. There are some very important and interesting debates ahead on the compensatory reform, where the expensive individual cases, as the Danish People's Party sees it, are one of the issues in it. But there is a great deal else in it, and I would say, as Hav has said, Where should the cut lie, and what is quite fair? It is difficult to say, and it is often linked to some other things we see too. So we do not think that at this stage we can take it as a single matter, but that we will take it into a wider review of how to get this whole area of equalisation as balanced as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140857	Then I will ask just to get a sense of what the Danish People's Party is thinking about the level here. I mean, today it's the case that you have to have these costs at well over a million. kr., before you even get as much as 1 kr. in the reimbursement of the State. Could the rapporteur give us an idea of where we should be? How roughly should we strike if there were to be a fair balance between the financial responsibility that each municipality had to take and the financial responsibility that the Community should take in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109140933	I don't want to stand here today putting on crowns and ears. I would rather wait until we have a good political discussion on a compensatory reform. And then a compensation parameter can trigger a quadruple or a relaxation of some other forms of compensation. So I see it as a whole, and it will be very difficult right now and here to say whether we should have the amount set $200,000. or 500,000 kroner. Down. So it has to be an overall assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141003	Thank you, Mrs. Susanne Eilersen, and welcome to Mr. Carl Holst, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141011	Thank you. The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, and I will start with the positive point: the intentions and the outrage and political zeal which the high rates of change can rightly give rise to are entirely legitimate. This is a view that we all share across the parties. The parties behind the bet pool settlement have also as part of the bet pool agreement allocated money to it, and I am quite sure that if Enhedslisten had also been part of the bet pool agreement, they would at least have supported that element I am convinced of. In legal terms, it is reprehensible: when it comes to the security of citizens, when it comes to knowing that the service they receive is in line with what they are legally entitled to. And politically, it is reprehensible that the intentions and content of the legislation presented are not being implemented. With regard to the specific proposal, the Minister was justified in her first speech, pointing out that the entire municipal compensation lies in another ministry. So it is not in relation to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs that we have to take this issue, but it is here that the solution belongs to what are the political intentions in relation to the small element of expensive housing. How do we solve them? I do not believe that the proposal to lower the ceiling is the way forward. It may incite cash-thinking to make the offer that is stacked on your feet equally expensive enough, so it is another box that finances it. This is so small an element that it belongs in the large municipal compensation fund, which we should have been working on and which we hope will soon get under way when the Finance Committee makes its recommendations, according to what the previous rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Eilersen, also mentioned. That's where it belongs. That is not to say, I do not recognise a challenge. But the challenge I recognise is a challenge that goes to all the rates of change and not just to this individual element. So I suggest that we use the gunpowder together across the parties to see it in a whole, when, as I see it, we have to solve, among other things. This is in relation to a radical reform of municipal equalisation. I shall end by saying that I am positive again: the outrage over the high rates of change divides the Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141328	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Sølvhøj mound
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141332	It is not too much said that the rapporteur's party can accept the fatherhood of the municipal reform that we had well over 10 years ago, when almost the entire specialized area was moved from the old counties to the municipalities. Does the rapporteur not agree that the relocation of such a complex and expensive area as the area of disability from the large units of the old counties and into very small municipalities has created a great vulnerability for this area which may be problematic?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141415	Thank you for the question, which has nothing to do with the motion for a resolution. These are two completely different elements. One is the consequence of a municipal reform, in relation to where the responsibility is, and the other, and that is what the resolution goes on • is the financing part of it. But I recognise the question, and the answer is: yes, the Left was one of the proud fathers of the foundations of municipal reform, which had the content of the municipalities being able to take it home or the social area could be in the regions. And there chose some municipalities to take it home. It was a municipal decision and not something of which the parties behind the municipal reform were part. Then it had two consequences which were contradictory, namely that there was a greater proximity, that was the positive, and therefore made a necessary despecialisation in relation to some elements. So the negative, which has also been a major consequence, according to what the question is about, has been that there has been despecialisation, by spreading competences. I acknowledge that last one. So yes to the question I was just trying to nuance it a little over some other elements in this a little complex world.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141539	The question had to do with the fact that, as the units become smaller, there may be a need for the Community to assume a greater obligation than the individual operating unit. In addition, however, I would like to say that I can understand the views of the rapporteur here, too, that this should be included in greater municipal equalisation, but on the other hand, the legislation was changed in relation to the placement of children when Article 176a of the law was established. This was not done as part of a major equalization project. Nevertheless, could it not be imagined that this problem was so specific that one could go to find a solution here without necessarily getting the whole big municipal compensation discussion into it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141630	I do not think so, because I do not think there can be any reforms, radical reforms, municipal equalisation by making small adjustments here and here. I think you have to see it in a whole. I recognise that the debate occasionally brings up elements that are crooked and that can then be adjusted. But that does not change the fact that there is a whole that we should have looked at. In other words, years ago it was a miscalculation of the number of au pairs that were entered into in the wrong way and so on. etc. The questioner knows all the examples. I do not believe that adjustments should be made by turning on different handles, but that we should do what was intended by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141722	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141730	Thank you. When organising the reimbursement system between the state and the municipalities, we in the Liberal Alliance find it very important that the system also operates with financial incentives, so that offers and interventions are organised according to local and individual needs and not according to what provides the largest reimbursement. We therefore do not entirely believe that the resolution is moving in the right direction. If you give a greater decoupling between the person who decides and the person who pays, then we all know which way it is going, as the proposers predict: this means that it will be more expensive. In addition, we risk a lack of necessary prevention. It must and must be the case, as far as possible, that anyone who orders the music also pays, as they say. Otherwise, we will distort the incentive structures. Then we know that there are some who may be disproportionately affected by individual cases and that some skewes equally legally to the economy we can recognise that, but this always difficult and also classic balancing approach should not be solved by extending the economic scope of the municipalities and by such needle-stick operation, and certainly not to 0.5 billion. kr. as the funding proposed. This problem will be solved by strengthening the professional procedures, as the Minister has also explained, in connection with the efforts made in the field of the pool of rates negotiations. So on this basis LA cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141922	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. And I would like to welcome Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109141939	Thank you. That's where Mr. Torsten Gejl in a hurry! It's not like I have so much to say. In the alternative, we are positive about this motion for a resolution. In the social field there are a number of complex and very resource-intensive cases, which can be very challenging for individual municipalities. We therefore support a reimbursement to the municipalities for the particularly expensive individual cases. Economic considerations must never be given a higher weight than the individual citizen when a municipality has to assess what action is appropriate in a given situation. Each citizen must always be the most important, which unfortunately is not always the case, at least not according to the study referred to in the proposal. It is a study called "Investigation of economics and professionalism in children's cases 2014·," and it says: "Our new study shows that there is still a great deal of financial pressure on professionalism in many municipalities. 47 per cent of social workers in the study say that the economy weighs much more heavily than social assessments when making decisions about placements. And 38 % says that the economy greatly or somewhat impairs the ability to care for the child's best interests. It's for us, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good reason to vote in favour of increasing this reimbursement and, if there were to be a majority in favour of the proposal, we would like to discuss the funding. We're not dismissive, but it might be nice to discuss it. It's a comprehensive exercise. Then I am actually pleased that several rapporteurs have said that this proposal may be useful in the forthcoming negotiations on the compensatory reform, and we would like to support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109142131	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments, which is why I welcome Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109142149	Thank you. It is, of course, a very, very well-intentioned and, in some ways, constructive proposal. I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that there has been a slippage which means that the reimbursement possibilities for the municipalities have become worse and worse. In principle, we are against this because it is not based on a decision that we have helped to take, but on the way in which economics are sometimes made here in the Folketing together with the municipalities. We agree with the issues that arise in the municipalities, where other ways are used.I must now really be diplomatic and find the right form of wording, where we find ways to make decisions that are not just based on what is technically best suited to the situation of the citizen in question. We know the whole problem from the work of the Ankestyrelsen, and as a Social Committee in many different contexts we have used statistics from the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen in relation to the ways in which the municipalities perform their tasks. We know that there is a need for us, as politicians, not least when we sit here in the Danish Parliament and also have responsibility for the legislation, to try in various ways to find ways of resolving the issues, the dilemmas, in which the municipalities come in, which are also affected by the economic situation. I would just like to say that I fully recognise that the matter is being raised, that it is being raised in a motion for a resolution, that attention is being drawn to this problem and to the developments that have been taking place, and that we, the Radical Left, as a party, will help to find out how we can somehow carry out that task, so that it becomes more reasonable for the municipalities and therefore for the citizens. But when we get to the financing of it, I can't be in it at all. What is the problem, if I may put it relatively briefly, is that we are used to, and we have done so for decades, having the government in office at all times negotiate the municipal economy with the municipalities, the counties, when there were counties, and now the regions. It has to be said, then, that it is a question of whether the municipalities also give priority to the challenges that they face and thus bring up the real issues, if I may say so, in the situation in which they are negotiating with the government. When I react in the way I do by being very clearly dismissive, it is because of the way Enhedslisten now chooses to do it: We take paragraphs 176 and 176 a, and that becomes the starting point. Then we make an estimate of how much money it really is that is missing, from a factually well-meaning point of view, and where can you pick them up, and then you make a small extra tax on a pension savings. This is, in fact, a way of finding ways of financing the municipal budget post by post in principle. I can actually understand it when you sit like Enhedslisten and want to help find some solutions to these issues, but as a • now I say something that is just the expression of a tradition that government-supporting party cannot do that way. That is simply unthinkable. One has to focus on how to get a proper economic agreement between the municipalities and the government, and this is best achieved by sitting in a government or by having an opportunity to influence the government in a way that makes the government take it seriously. And it is, of course, an election question, how to be placed in that context. That is why a motion for a resolution is not the right way to do it. This is the right way to focus on an issue that we can say we want to help each other take up in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, and we can try to figure out how to carry out this type of task, but unfortunately the way to get the money I cannot help with here. I believe that this is another way to go, but I would like to contribute to raising the issue, including to the government, which is not influenced on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109142627	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109142636	Since I myself have been on the city council, I have experienced the situation that there is a vulnerable family where there is a need to have four children or that citizens had moved to the municipality with disabilities, which required extensive support for citizens who needed help and where the cost required us to reopen the budget and find savings elsewhere. It may not be the consequences in a large municipality with a large budget where it is possible to move around, but in a smaller municipality it may be difficult when expenditure in the specialized social area cannot be predicted and managed. But this must not mean that the citizens who need social action do not get it, that is to say that the economy will have an impact on the concrete and individual assessment that the law requires to be made. That is why it is also worrying when we can see the comments on this proposal too, and also see that the Ankestyrelsen has the high rate of change it has in social matters, but also that case officers see that the economy plays a role. As we can also see from the comments on this motion for a resolution, there has been a falling state refund and the limit on when reimbursement is being granted has been steadily increasing. That is why, in the SF, we support the intentions of this motion for a resolution, and so we would very much like to be involved in discussing how to bring together some kind of financing model where State reimbursement is increasing. This should not necessarily be the proposed one, because we are thinking that very much needs to be regulated over the block subsidy • that is the way in which it is usually done. But when the municipalities say that one of the reasons why they are unable to comply with the budgets is the special specialized area, it is not nonsense. And when we hear that the municipalities are holding back a little from putting in place, or at all, giving the support that has to be given because they cannot understand the economic consequences, then we have a joint responsibility to ensure that it is not the economy that means making some wrong decisions. So I would like to say that we are fully in line with the intentions of the resolution, but we would like to call for us to somehow find a way to change the state reimbursement, which also has a financing model that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109142910	We say thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Happy New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109142919	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that the Conservative People's Party rejects the resolution for several reasons, but above all because the responsibility that lies over with the municipalities, for conversion rates, is not lifted in an okay manner. We need to tighten up these conversion rates, and of course we have the opportunity to do so. It is the case that the municipalities have through the Ankestyrelsen a travel team that can help raise the expertise in this area. This is very important for legal certainty. I also think it is important for municipal self-government that we have the services provided by the legislation. It is clear that there are some areas here with conversion rates for some municipalities that are not satisfactory either here at Christiansborg. But we are of the opinion that raising the rate of reimbursement on particularly expensive cases poses some other problems. It can be said that one of the reasons why we are saying this is that this is a problem that we must avoid, because it is important that the refund withdrawn, which is in this area and is financed from the block grants, should be kept within the scope of today's reimbursement. After all, the reform of compensation can be discussed, and it is often done, and there is no doubt that we will have to look at it at some point. I just have to say that it's over in another ministry, and that's where it belongs. Of course, the compensatory reform also takes account of small and large municipalities and the demography that we see in this area. I would say that in relation to the incentive in this area to respect these costs, it is of course very important that the trader should also bear the bill. I think that should be the heading of it, so that when you act in this area, it is also very important that you are responsible for the expenditure and the bill you print. Therefore, the municipalities must remain responsible, even with the responsibility for prevention, so that they do not think that prevention could be less attractive, rehabilitate, but instead allow the bill to be so large that it exceeds the 600,000, so that they get reimbursement and thus get into a cashier's thinking that is completely unnecessary. We say in the Conservative People's Party that we agree that there are some conversion rates that are going down, but that it is far too dangerous to start playing with the rates for reimbursement rates and amounts, and that is why we say no to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109143243	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109143250	First of all, I would like to thank you for the relatively large number of comments you have made. I am pleased that there are many parties in the Danish Parliament who can see that we have a problem in this area. With the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, we wanted to open a debate on a first proposal for a more equitable and more inclusive coverage of the costs incurred by municipalities in the field of disability. We believe, as the comments also show, and as I can hear several rapporteurs agree, that the way in which economic governance is conducted today poses a considerable risk that the distribution of costs in the area of disability is too random and that the distribution of costs between municipalities is therefore very easily unfair. After all, the funding available to citizens means that this area is something special, because the costs are as high as they are. It is clear that the economic pressure on the municipalities in all areas poses problems. In the field of education, in the general field of day-care, in all possible areas, it can be said that there may be a tendency for economic pressure to affect the objectivity and professionality of decisions taken. But precisely because there is such a huge amount of expenditure here in the individual case, we are therefore concerned that economic thinking will then be particularly strong in the area of disability. Examples have already been given by other rapporteurs, but I would also like to say here that we have seen problems with the repatriation of citizens to municipal services, where one has to think that they have first of all distinguished themselves by being cheaper than the offers that the citizens were already offering. We have seen how this has resulted in a significant and very worrying despecialisation of the area and, above all, we have seen how the local authorities' procedures have been quite unacceptable in terms of errors and shortcomings. This is a recognition which I am also fully aware of the government, in that the Minister for Social Affairs has established the Danish map, which shows the list of errors and shortcomings in complaints in the social field. It has already been mentioned that in the area of child/disability there were errors and deficiencies in 46 per cent. of the cases in 2016, and of another inventory from the adult area when we talk about housing offers, protected employment, personal help, we can see that for the areas for the first half of 2017 there were errors and shortcomings in 68 percent. of all complaints. It is absolutely insane that there are so many mistakes. I think we should be aware that we have a very special problem, and that is that in this area there are a great many citizens who are unable to complain themselves or who do not have relatives who are able to help them to complain. We see it very clearly with the study which we also mention in the legislative notes in relation to citizens with rare diagnoses, acquired brain damage, that there is in the practical investigation that it did not rely on complaints, but took in cases that were just not complained about, but nevertheless in these cases there were errors and shortcomings in 40%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. As far as I am concerned, this shows the extent of the problem. I would like to say that, in the Enhedslisten with this proposal, we do not believe that we have found a Columbus egg that solves all the problems, and I hope that has also emerged from the comments, otherwise it will have to be made very clear here. It is not the case that we solve the problem of unfair repatriation, de-specialisation and the many mistakes that can be made by doing this. I think a number of different initiatives are needed. Some of them have, after all, been taken in connection with the revision of the adult provisions of the Services Act, which introduced a very sensible early warning system which could help to stem this problem. So it has not been an attempt to say that here we have what solves the problem, but on the other hand I have to say that just to refer to a general regulation of the compensation system I do not think that is right. It is not that I do not understand the point of view, but here we have a large group of citizens who suffer from a totally biased way of distributing money, and we should find solutions to that, even if there are no solutions in the whole area of total compensation. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the many comments that have been made. We are very prepared to discuss the size of the limits, and we are very willing to discuss funding, but the most important thing for us is that this problem is being addressed, because there are people with disabilities in the municipalities who are not getting the offers they need, because economic thinking overwhelms the professional and factual thinking which is taking place in much of the municipal process, and that is simply not good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109143820	Thank you, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109143834	The debate is open. The Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109143850	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal. The proposal deals with the possibility for waste water companies to co-finance municipal climate projects which remove roof and surface water from the water bill of consumers. I think this is a very important issue, because it is of course important that we make good and wise investments in climate adjustment. For this reason, significant improvements have also been made over the last five years to the possibilities for water companies to finance municipal climate adaptation projects. It is important to have in mind when discussing the opportunities for companies to finance municipal climate adaptation projects in the future. In fact, before 2013, it was the municipalities themselves that had to finance the municipal climate adaptation projects in full. In 2013, rules were introduced to allow waste water companies to finance 75%. of the municipal climate adaptation projects. In addition, a temporary scheme was introduced which allowed companies to finance 100% for three years. of the municipal climate adaptation projects. The provisional scheme expired in 2016. This means that today waste water companies can finance 75%. of the municipal climate adaptation projects. I fully recognise that this is an important agenda and I also recognise that there must be good opportunities for implementing this type of climate project today. That is why I am also pleased that there have been significantly better opportunities today than what was the case before 2013. However, when consumers pay the costs of these projects over their water bills, we must, of course, find a good balance where we take account of both climate adjustment and consumer considerations. And that's a difficult balance. An evaluation from spring 2017 of the municipalities' climate adaptation projects has shown that the alternative climate projects where roofing and surface water are derived are often cheaper than the traditional solutions where pipes are buried and underground basins are established. That's good. At the same time, however, the 2017 evaluation has shown that the opportunities for waste water companies to finance the municipalities' climate adjustment projects can provide an incentive for too much investment and for the utilities to be overcompensated for the investments. The evaluation points out that it may be problematic that it is the municipalities that decide the investments, but the waste water companies and thus the consumers who pay it all. The evaluation also points out that it may be inappropriate for waste water companies to be able to charge all the costs of the projects to consumers, even if the waste water companies are already obliged to adapt to rain. It stresses that this is a difficult issue, in which we must seek to adapt the rules so as to take account both of climate change adjustment and of consumers. Therefore, as a follow-up to the supply strategy, the government launched an in-depth analysis of the incentives for the water companies to invest. It also includes the co-financing rules. It is an analysis that we expect to be ready in 2018, and it is an analysis that can give us a good basis for deciding how the rules should be designed in the future. Generally speaking, it is important that we ensure a good basis for decision-making when we approach regulatory changes. If the basis for the decision is not in order, it would be a risk that we would have the rules put in place incorrectly. This can have unfortunate consequences for climate change adaptation, and this can have unfortunate consequences for consumers. And then we run the risk that in two years' time we will be in this Chamber again to change the rules again. I fully recognise that the Enhedslisten is addressing a major issue, and I can see some sense in the ideas behind the motion for a resolution. But these are very complicated rules so complicated that local authorities and waste water companies sometimes find it difficult to find their way around them. That is why I would also very strongly urge that we wait for the current analysis before deciding what the rules should look like in the future. Part of the proposal is that municipalities should be completely exempted from financing the alternative climate projects implemented in the municipalities. Instead, the waste water companies will have to finance the entire investment, which, according to the current rules, will mean that the waste water company will be able to charge the entire bill to consumers. First of all, it should be borne in mind that the current rules are much more favourable than the rules from before 2013 when the municipalities had to finance everything instead of the 25% that they have to fund today. From a democratic point of view, I also see reason for the municipalities to finance a smaller part of the projects, so that politicians are more in line with the objective of providing taxpayers with as much climate adjustment as possible for the money. On the other hand, it is of course also important that it does not stand in the way of wise and effective climate change adaptation. I am also saying that it is not certain that the solution we know today is the right one. As I mentioned before, it is supported by the evaluation completed in 2017. I would therefore very much like to look at whether we can find a solution that both encourages consumer protection and ensures that appropriate climate adjustment is carried out. Another part of the proposal is about debureaucratising, among other things. by transferring the Supply Secretariat to random checks. I am of the opinion that we should always look at whether we can make things smarter so that we can reduce the level of administration. Therefore, I am also very open to looking at whether the rules can be arranged in a way that does not require so much control in the first place. And that's what we're looking at. However, this is something that needs to be analysed in greater detail before we know the good solution, so that we ensure adequate protection for consumers. The Enhedslisten also proposes that the waste water companies should have the opportunity to build on the municipality's climate projects. I have noted that it is a wish that exists particularly in the municipalities and in part in the industry, because in some cases it is waste water companies that have the greatest expertise in this area. I think this is an exciting proposal, because it is interesting to look at how we make the best use of our competences. On the other hand, it will also immediately mean that waste water companies will have to carry out a task which is currently being carried out by the municipalities. That is why we must be absolutely sure that consumers are not subject to an unnecessary extra charge. But it is clear that this is something I want to take into account in further deliberations. Finally, the motion for a resolution proposes that waste water companies should be given the opportunity to co-finance the implementation of projects when climate projects are carried out on a private basis. I agree that this should be considered, but the rules for implementing climate projects on private grounds should take into account the same considerations as for other climate projects. This means that there must be the right incentive both to make a wise climate adjustment and to ensure that the projects implemented are effective so that the other consumers are protected. Therefore, I think it is wisest to include this consideration in the wider analysis of who should be responsible for which parts of the projects. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten once again for the proposal and for highlighting an important issue. The government and I, as Minister, are very concerned about the rules in this area and about ensuring that appropriate climate adjustment is implemented. That is why this is not about whether we should adapt to climate change or not. It is about how we can make things go hand in hand so that we both adapt and protect consumers. I believe that the Enhedslisten, with the proposal, has some good ideas about how the rules can be adapted in the future, and I do not wish to deny that the rules on cofinancing need to be adjusted. However, for the individual elements of the motion for a resolution, I do not think that we have a sufficient basis for assessing how the rules can be properly adapted in the future. These are climate projects for a great deal of money, which could potentially be included directly in consumers' water bills. From 2013 to 2016 alone, the Supply Secretariat has approved the collection of 1.6 billion. kr. extra from water consumers to investment in co-financing projects. And I can inform you that under the old rules HOFOR had applied for co-financing for projects for approx. 5 billion kr. Although the application has subsequently been withdrawn, it illustrates the billion investments we are talking about. That is why I would also urge that we now await the analysis that is under way so that we ensure a good and long-lasting solution in the future. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109144820	Thank you, Minister. There is just one brief comment to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109144824	Thank you for your kind reception, which was, of course, positive until the conclusion was drawn, namely that the government would not support the proposal. I would now like to stress all the positive words that the Minister made in his reception. As far as the economy is concerned, I think there is good reason to look at what is actually the most appropriate recovery of these costs of measures to prevent floods in rainwater. It is, of course, a question of whether we should pay it as consumers over the water tax, or whether we should also pay part of it over the municipal tax. If it is the case that the way things are going, where it is not the utilities that handle the task alone, is too bureaucratic, then I think there is good reason to go back to the solution that has been used in the past. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there is any evidence to suggest that it worked badly during this three-year period, when there was 100% funding from the water sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109144927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109144928	Thank you for the question and also thank you for the positive reception. At first sight, I cannot say that this is the case. It is, of course, the case that during that period there has been the possibility of charging the bill 100 per cent. the water companies. You didn't have that option before this period, and you didn't have it until 2013. It can also be said that 75 per cent of co-financing can at least be pointed out that there are projects that have not been implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145003	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145004	I think it is right that there should be some control and control, and the Minister also mentioned the democratic conditions surrounding it. I think it is reasonable to ensure that somewhere there is an assessment of whether a climate adjustment project is really a climate adaptation project, so that it is not a question of getting a smart space formation in a place where it is secondary that you might flood this space once or twice a year. So I think it is reasonable that there should be that approach to it. I think it might be interesting to clarify a little more what it is for an analysis that comes in 2018. Can the Minister reveal what elements are in this analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145047	Thank you for the question. Basically, this will be an analysis which looks at whether we are making it appropriate today: is it true that the municipalities have to co-finance 25%.? We are willing to discuss this, but in order to discuss it, it is also important that we ensure that we have this analysis and also that the money we spend on these climate measures in the municipalities is also spent in a way that will give us as much climate action as possible for the money that the municipalities and waste water companies spend in this area. As I said in my speech, we are not opposed to discussing whether the current model is the right one. We must also recognise that in some places adaptation projects are being carried out which are not appropriate and which are actually more expensive because they are underground, while above ground projects could have been carried out at a much lower price.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145140	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145144	Thank you. I would also very much like to acknowledge the Minister's willingness to look at these rules, and we all know that this cofinancing rate plays a very important role in what the municipalities are setting in motion. After all, we started in our reign by putting it at 100, and then there is a threat of putting it down in order for the municipalities to get started. Now it has been put down, which means that there will actually be some who, when they hear some signals from Christiansborg that we are willing to look at this, maybe think: Uh, then we will slow down if it is that 100 per cent of cofinancing can come back. So I sign for this to be seen on this, but aren't we agreed that once we've had that talk, we'll have to move fast so that everything doesn't stop out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145229	Thank you for the question. I quite agree that there is also a problem here, it is clear, but the mere fact that we have the discussion here today also gives rise to some municipalities perhaps sitting down and considering whether they should wait on this or they should do it in another way. The same applies to the waste water sector. That is why I share the view of the questioner that once we have analyzed this, we have looked at the challenges that are, and are quite regular in ensuring that we have as much climate adjustment as possible for the resources that are allocated, including distribution, and how we deal with it, it is urgent to have a political decision taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145300	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145301	Thank you very much. I would just like to ask whether there is any possibility that the Minister could go back into his system and use the great influence and significance that I know he has to put a little pressure on us to perhaps speed up both the analysis and the resolution and say that this is a really, really important matter. It is therefore important that we do not wait for these floods to occur in the municipalities, where people's basements, fields and other things are being flooded, but actually get started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145330	Things take time, and some things take longer than others. But here it is absolutely essential that we have a proper basis for decision-making. As I mentioned in my speech, it is not a matter of pennies. For one company there were applications for 5 billion. kr., and that's quite, quite a lot of money. That is why, of course, the government is concerned that we are doing this in the right way, so that we make sure that we get as much climate adjustment as possible in society for the money that is spent, whether in a municipality or a waste water company. And we must also make sure that it is not the case that the municipalities simply wipe off large bills on waste water consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145408	We thank the Minister and start with the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145420	Thank you for that, President. Unfortunately, we are increasingly seeing heavy rains and rainfalls giving flooded houses and cellars or closing motorway tunnels. These are, of course, extremely violent weather phenomena which also really affect the everyday lives of the people they touch on. And that's why we need to do something. Sometimes these floods can be prevented by relatively simple solutions that delay the water and lead it away from the houses. By making holes in green areas next to the road, the rainwater may be delayed. An asphalted depression may act as a skateboard ramp for most days of the year and as a rainwater basin when there is a cloudbreak. Often the solutions are much cheaper than digging it down and making larger sewers, not least in cities where construction projects are very expensive. When we were last in government, we wanted to push for the cheap solutions above ground to get more climate adjustment projects and to deal with these problems, and that is why we made the agreement that it could be financed over water tariffs. That is the agreement that the current government has suspended. It has been said that the municipalities must now put some of the money, in particular 25%, if they want to make extraterrestrial solutions, if that is the case. In this way, it can be said that the expensive solutions can well be financed from water tariffs, while the cheaper solutions, which may sometimes be enough, require you to pull money out of the municipal treasury. It is unfortunate if they then come into competition with elderly care, with schools or other things. And that means that climate finance projects are stalling or that you end up in a situation where you choose the underground solution because you do not want it to compete with the welfare tasks. But then the consumer will pay more overall because it is more expensive to dig down the pipes than to make the extraterrestrial solutions. So I think we should get away from the situation we have right now, either making it all more expensive for citizens or risking that it is the close welfare of municipalities, care for the elderly and schools that should contribute to the financing of these projects. This is not acceptable because it puts the projects at a standstill. We need the opposite. In the municipalities, climate adjustment is needed more than ever before. This was also the reason why the Social Democratic Party, together with the SF, proposed not so long ago that it should simply roll it back to the solution with the 100 per cent. in financing, to which the Enhedslisten in this proposal also refers. And from this point of view, we agree entirely with the main aim of Enhedslisten's proposal. We have proposed this ourselves and, of course, we stand by it. So far, the government has refused to change the rules, but the Minister has made a response here today, namely that we can continue to look at it. And I think this should be done in the light of the evaluation that has been carried out and that in reality shows that a great deal of money has been saved by not having to have the same climate adjustment underground. More specifically, it is believed that it is 3.3 billion. kr. cheaper than if you had to do the projects you've done as underground plants. However, it is also a slim money that we as a society can save, and that is why I am pleased that the Minister, like the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, who is also the Left, is opening the way for this to change. We will not support the resolution in its entirety in advance, because there are also some elements which we simply think we should have drilled into committee work. Not least, we think it is very sensible that the Supply Secretariat still plays a role in ensuring that in this way it is the right thing to call for money and ensure that consumers do not get an extra bill that is not justified by the activity they want. So I think that with the positive statements we will enter into committee work and try, together with the Enhedslisten and other good parties, to land perhaps a report or perhaps something else that can point to a rapid clarification. I very much agree with Mrs Ida Auken, who mentioned the need for rapid clarification, so that we do not now end up in a vacuum where the municipalities do nothing because they are waiting for new rules. I have promised to welcome from the SF's rapporteur, who may not be able to make it, and to say that the SF also agrees with the main aim of the new financing rules. This will be warmly supported, but we cannot promise to support the resolution as a whole in the run-up to the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145850	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145853	Thank you. Thanks for receiving me. I think it makes sense to try to work a report together, especially if it is a report which then makes it clear that, because I see the dilemma, if you say in the supply sector that you will wait for what is politically concluded in the context of the analysis that the Minister has set in motion, and I understand if there are municipalities saying that they do not want to introduce cofinancing of 25%, if that is the case in a few months' time, there is a situation where the supply companies can bear the total investment. With regard to the issue of monitoring what projects are being carried out, I really think it is reasonable to look at whether this is currently too bureaucratic a way in which the Supply Office handles it and if the work is not being done so well that it is possible to settle for a sample of the projects being carried out. Can the rapporteur not see that there could be something to be done about the rules of de-bureaucratisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109145958	First of all, I think it is right that we should have clarification quickly, and that is also why I say that the Social Democrats think and we have, in this way, already indicated that the second financing model that we used when we last sat in the government was better, because it made us both have cheaper solutions, but also that something actually happened in this area, so that people do not get water in the basement, etc. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, it is always a balancing exercise, and I would not at all deny that new ways can be found to strike that balance or that there may be adjustments that can be made in cooperation with the KL and the Supply Secretariat. What is just important is that when you have the opportunity to collect the money on the water bill, and that is what Enhedslisten is doing in connection with water sector legislation, we must, of course, also be hand in hand with the fact that the money that is being collected from consumers is also an expression of the real costs, which are either in terms of climate adjustments or in terms of something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150058	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150114	Thank you. I would like to start by signing the Enhedslisten for the resolution here, because I certainly think that this is an important issue that is being addressed. There is no doubt that with the increased rainfall observed in recent years and there is no indication that this trend will stop, there is a need to adapt our cities in particular to these increased rainfalls. And for that purpose, surface solutions are certainly preferable to see the results that have been that it is quite a lot cheaper to make surface solutions. In relation to whether the financing model that is being used today is the right one, we in the Danish People's Party probably agree with Enhedslisten that it is not optimal. In the past there was a model where the water companies financed it one hundred percent, and that model therefore some believe led to overinvestment, because it is simply too easy to send the entire bill over to the water consumers, while with the current model, where there is 25%. It is a good thing that local government funding has better democratic control over the fact that the projects that are being carried out are also needed. Secondly, it is preferable that it be elected politicians who take decisions in the open space and who can be held accountable by the electorate for the decisions they have taken and the way in which a municipality's money has been committed. So it is preferable for there to be some form of municipal funding. But in the Danish People's Party we also agree with the proposers that there may be a problem in the fact that cofinancing is 25 per cent, and that this is a considerable amount of money that the municipalities must put out with. As the municipalities are also subject to a number of restrictions in relation to how much and how to use the municipality fund on construction projects, these climate adjustment projects will compete with all sorts of other municipal construction projects to fill out the municipality's financial framework. And so we run the risk that these climate adjustment projects will not be implemented because politicians, probably for good reasons, have decided that it has been more important to renovate a school or to develop a nursing home or other good purposes. Therefore, we would like to acknowledge that perhaps there is a need for the funding rate for municipalities to be lower in order to implement more climate adjustment projects. Whether to go back to 100%. We are not entirely sure of funding by the water companies, as proposed in the motion for a resolution. That is why we are glad that the Minister has just said that an analysis of this area is being carried out. And from the Danish People's Party we would like to wait to see the result of the analysis before we will conclude how the cut should be put. Because it could be somewhere between the 25%. and the 0 per cent. municipal funding, which was the best. So it is not because we disagree on the basis of the resolution, but because we want to be sure that the right decision is taken, that we want to wait a little and see what the ministry's analysis brings with it. So I would like to say that we would like to wait for a decision, but that we think there is enough reason to change the financing system from the present to a lower municipal rate. We agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution in this respect. So, on this basis, I would say that we do not support the motion for a resolution, but that we would like to help create a new and better model at a slightly later stage than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150532	A brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150534	Thanks for the relatively nice reception followed by a little mixed back crawl and breast swimming and stepping waters. There is the opening-up to looking at whether this is the right percentage now, but I think it is fair that there is some local control over what investments are being made and whether the best investments are being made. There I think it is very obvious that municipalities have some insight into and influence on what is going on in water companies. I can well imagine that municipalities, for example. in the case of larger projects, could have an opportunity to approve investment budgets for the local water supply before making major projects dealing with surface water. It's perfectly natural. I think it should be possible to secure it through some processes, rather than whether it is with a certain, what to say, payment rate. Does the rapporteur not see that there could be scope for ensuring municipal control by approving some investment budgets?
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150641	Yes, I do acknowledge that the fact that there is external control over the proper use of the money is all but better than the situation that could otherwise be imagined, where it was alone in a closed room, in a boardroom decisions were taken. However, I think it is healthy for the general public debate that there is also a certain amount of local cofinancing. How big it should be, I am not going to lay down, but at least less than the 25% that is the case today. I think it's better if Mr. Knox didn't... Søren Egge Rasmussen should be pleased that we actually agree on which way we will go, and then we are actually discussing just how big steps we need to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150726	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150728	I also welcome the fact that the rapporteur still has his head over the water in his straits. I understand that Mrs Pia Adelsteen has also had some interest in this proposal and has asked three questions on this matter. I think that some figures have come forward which actually indicate that there is some investment desire that has gone down in 2017. I really think that would be interesting to have a closer look at this through the committee procedure. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether this competition with other municipal projects, other municipal investment is an inequality and an imbalance. After all, there may be some municipalities that need to make climate adjustment projects so that they do not have flooded cellars in certain municipalities. In some municipalities it will be very difficult to carry out other service tasks if you are to save people's basements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150818	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150820	Well, it is a very correct consideration that the fact that there are a limited number of crowns available to the individual municipality in the construction budget makes it clear that with such a high co-financing rate for the municipalities, climate adjustment projects are guaranteed to be downgraded because there are other important purposes for which the municipalities spend the money. I believe that you can solve that far along the way by having a lower percentage. So I think we almost agree on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150853	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109150904	Thank you for that, and thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, which the Left cannot support, and I welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot. I think the intentions of the motion for a resolution on debureaucratisation are well-meaning and good, and I hope, as the Minister also started by saying, that they will be included in the further work. Otherwise, however, I think we should wait for the studies that are under way in order to identify the evaluation, and things will take time, as the Minister said, but let us hope that things will proceed as soon as possible in relation to moving forward. For it is clear that uncertainty and uncertainty give rise to economic considerations as to what to do and what not to do, and it is inappropriate with the unfinished business, which there was also a questioner who pointed out earlier through questions. Thus, the desire to wait for the evaluation that will come in 2018 is not a desire to put anything in a jar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151022	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151034	Let me start by emphasising, as other rapporteurs have done, that dissipation of the increased amounts of rainfall and thus of flooded surface water in cities as well as on land is a very important task for society in these years. If anyone had any doubts about that, you could, for example. Take a train ride across the country here between Christmas and New Year and look out the window. You could have seen drone pictures on TV 2 News yesterday, or you could have just watched the increasing frequency of the stories about the flooding of cellars etc. Then I think I will make a bit of an admission, namely that the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance share many views in this particular area. It is perhaps a little rare for a Liberal Alliance rapporteur to stand here on the parliamentary platform and make that concession, but nevertheless it is true. I can, for example. Understand that Enhedslisten wants to debureaucratize the municipalities' interaction with the state supply secretariat, and as a representative of the Danish government, as far as I know at least the only party in the Danish Parliament with a real debureaucratisation rapporteur, that view is of course very difficult to disagree with. Because there really is a need to reduce the administrative burden, not only in the supply sector, but throughout the public slash semi-public sector. It has always been a matter for the Liberal Alliance, and now I understand that it is also a matter for the Enhedslisten, and it is wonderful when we can create communities of interest across the Parliamentary Assembly. If the Liberal Alliance, and perhaps the proposer of the motion for a resolution, does not support the motion for a resolution, then it is not because the Liberal Alliance believes that sufficient climate adjustment should not be ensured in the municipalities, but that this should be guaranteed balanced without the citizens being milked completely over the waste water bill. Another argument for not voting for the Enhedslisten resolution is that when a temporary arrangement expires, it is not natural law that it should be continued in the same or not modified form. In addition, the possibilities for financing climate adjustment today, even without the temporary arrangement of 100%, are open. cofinancing, much better than just five years ago. Then there is the quite dominant principle for the Liberal Alliance that socially relevant investments must be made in a socio-economic way, with the aim of achieving the greatest possible impact on citizens' money, and we must therefore ensure a balance in which we invest in the right way, but also by I believe that it is a sound principle that all parties bear a financial responsibility, that everyone, if I may say so, has a hand on the hot plate, so that no decisions are taken on which projects are to be carried out without having to pay money out of the municipal treasury, but that instead the bill can be passed directly on to water consumers via the utilities and their boards, and, moreover, where there is an often inappropriate overlap with municipal councils. With a certain degree of local co-financing, it can better be ensured that everyone moves in the same direction and has roughly the same interests and not without financial responsibility can put superfluous or oversized projects into the sea. As in many other contexts, the Liberal Alliance agrees with the government and also with the Danish People's Party that we must wait for the not yet completed and in-depth analysis of the investment incentives for climate adjustment, which will shed light on how these financing models are best organised before we take a decision, and therefore the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151528	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151531	The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur stressed that the Liberal Alliance agreed with the Enhedslisten on some points, and that is, of course, the fact that tasks are best carried out jointly in non-profit utility companies, which are 100%. owned by the municipalities of some water companies which have no profit in mind and which are not driven by it, but which are driven by the fact that we have to solve some tasks together rather than leaving it up to the individual choice how to prevent the water from entering your basement. After all, it is good to hear that the Liberal Alliance comes to such an understanding that there are certain tasks here in society that are best solved together and best solved in such a way that no one benefits from it. I am very pleased that the Liberal Alliance has come to the realization that the water sector is not something that should be profitable and is not something that should be made money on. There you have a work where you ensure clean water for everyone and where you ensure that you handle the waste water in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151631	Yes, yes, I do not know whether it should be commented on much further than that even cooperation and agreement can go too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151643	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151651	Thank you. After all, the climate crisis is a major and present crisis, which is filling more and more in our time and which is becoming more and more important to deal with and find solutions to as soon as possible. When it comes to limiting the climate crisis, we need to do a number of things about turning down our consumption of fossil fuels, turning down our meat production and consumption, for example. And a lot of other things. But no matter what we do, the consequences of the climate crisis are in full swing, and that type of impact is happening out there all over the country. This is what we call climate impacts, which need to be resolved by means of some climate action all around the country. It is incredibly important to me that this type of action should be limited. freedom and max. creativity to be able to be carried out in the most socially sensible way, where creative solutions are found, solutions that create synergies between different functions, and where you encounter as few barriers as possible for the good solutions. That is why, of course, we are very much in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal. We expect to vote in favour of this, but of course we will take an active part in the work of the committee on how we can be more precise about the various adjustments proposed by the Enhedslisten. There are plenty of good elements, but there is also a lot of knowledge to be gained from the analysis that is on the way, as to where we are going to land, so of course it also makes sense not to wait for it, but to look at it as soon as possible and draw some conclusions out of it if we can do so beforehand. I also agree with what Mrs Ida Auken has said: we need to act quickly here. We need to remove some barriers as quickly as possible so that these projects can get started and become as useful and thought-out and creative as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151919	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109151927	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for having put forward this proposal so that we in the Parliamentary Assembly can also discuss something that we are discussing very much in public: what we need to do to take the next steps towards climate adjustment. It is therefore the case that it is impossible to escape the fact that climate change is in progress; it affects Denmark, it affects the whole world. And we are, of course, a relatively low-lying country with 6,000 km of coastline or is it 7,000 km? The rain comes more violently, it comes more at once, and we simply need to adjust ourselves to this new weather in a way so that it doesn't become the insurance premiums we pay it all with, and so we don't have to stand with cleanups, like we did in summer 2011 and throw out all our memories from the cellars, because it's all been flooded, or again stand and watch big crops disappear, because we don't know how we can handle more water in the open country. So climate adjustment is a big and important agenda, and fortunately we have also gone much further than we were in 2011, when the big storm hit Copenhagen and cost many, many billions of dollars. And at that time, in the then government, in which I had the honour of being Minister for the Environment, we did that, that we had a real action plan for climate adaptation and put a whole series of measures in motion. One of them was to ensure that there were funding opportunities in the municipalities to pay for this effort. For it is thus the case with sewer pipes and all that lies underground that it is not the first thing you want to pay, if at the same time there is a kindergarten that is wearing out, or some elderly people who are not properly cared for, out in a municipality; then it comes before the sewer pipes underground. On the other hand, it's just really expensive to wait and not do anything about this, i.e. to wait until the rain like it's hit, because then you have to pay to clean up. So we need to get the municipalities back on track with the next steps, and we know that this cofinancing, which we made possible with the climate adjustment action plan in our time, is absolutely crucial. At that time, we deliberately put in a squeeze that lowered the cofinancing, and that was to get the municipalities going. It was a kind of screw so that they wouldn't have to postpone all of this; it was for it to be at the top of the agenda. However, it is clear that, when it is squeezed, now that cofinancing has been reduced, there is a risk that things will stop. Not least after a debate like this one in the Danish Parliament, where fortunately there has been a goodwill, including on the part of the Minister, to look at these things, one can fear that some are sitting out there now thinking: Now we are putting things on hold until we know if we can get back to 100 per cent. co-financing. So we would say radically: it is urgent to do what the Minister says. Get the report and let's make some decisions. Anyone who is concerned with cofinancing does not have to go along with the rest. I think you can take that now. Then it is clear that when we are about to sit and look at the Water Sector Act and other things, it is a little more complicated. Things take time, and it's okay there, but I don't think we should wait with the co-financing rules. On the radical side, we think that the vast majority of the things contained in this motion for a resolution are sensible; we have proposed several of them ourselves. That is why we would like to support this motion for a resolution, and perhaps we should try to write a report in which the consensus that has also been in the Folketing can emerge, so that it actually becomes something out of the real world and the Danes can be dry-shoeed when the next big rain hits.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109152305	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109152318	Thank you. What we have discussed here is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on better and simpler rules for climate adaptation in the municipalities. What we have specifically proposed by the Enhedslisten is that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to re-establish 100%. co-financing scheme for climate adaptation projects and simplifying the rules for co-financing projects, including debureaucratising the interaction with the State supply sector, and allowing utilities to be performers and developers and simplifying the financing conditions of projects for private common roads. I think we have had a good debate, and I also think we have had a debate that reflects the fact that it might be reasonable to come up with a report which will clarify what local cofinancing should be in the future if there is to be local cofinancing or if there is to be any means of influencing local authorities, it has a control over what kind of climate adjustment projects local water companies are setting in motion. I think we can come up with a report that quickly clarifies what we are not dependent on waiting for the analysis that the minister has set in motion, because then we could risk having a whole year of 2018, when the municipalities choose not to set in motion much, because it could be that they could save their 25%. co-financing for projects. I understand that the government is trying to keep itself together and thus does not say yes to the proposal we are making. I was listening to the fact that the Danish People's Party, on the basis of the questions that the Danish People's Party has recently asked, and a few days ago, has received an answer, is, in this sense, accommodating to see if we can come up with a better solution to these climate adjustment projects and that there is an interest in seeing to what extent the current cofinancing has been so drastic a slowdown in investment that it is not reasonable. In the Enhedslisten, we think it is essential that when you make new systems, you look at whether you have set it up in too bureaucratic a way, for example. it would not be reasonable to conclude that sampling with the companies was sufficient. If there is transparency about budgets and the calculations about investments, why is it necessary to follow all projects closely and is a random check not sufficient? Then we also think it is important to look at who the best at carrying out the tasks are and there could be many projects that the utilities might well be builders of where they have the expertise, and it might as well be used in projects that need to be implemented. Then we have included a proposal to simplify the financing conditions for projects taking place on private common roads. It is a barrier, for example. in a local landowner association must go out and find funding to carry out a climate adjustment project on a private common road with the possibility of obtaining a grant from the local utilities for 20 years afterwards. It is a little difficult, because it is not the big deal to go out to a general meeting on a private common road and say that now we have to take a joint loan to solve some problems with our surface water, and then we have the prospect that the local utilities will then contribute part of the payment over the next 20 years. It's kind of a barrier. I really believe that, if a sensible solution can be found, where, if it is locally recognised, it will be of great importance to deal with local surface water differently, and if it is possible to bring local landowners' associations into interaction and thus find a solution where the supply company is responsible for the investment, then it could encourage more projects to be implemented. So I think we should have a good look at that. But overall, it is this funding and the municipal cofinancing of the major projects, which are the most important in this proposal, and I hope that we will come to the conclusion that a report can be written, because if you look at reality and the problems we have with increasing rainfall, higher groundwater in several places, then there is reason to prevent, rather than just rely on those who own the cellars to replace their values when the floods come. So I look forward to getting a job where we can hopefully land a report and that we can also come to the conclusion that the analysis that the Minister has set in motion can be promoted, and it could also be part of the analysis that has been promoted. Thanks for receiving me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109152844	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180109152857	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 10 January 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
