ParlaMint-DK_20180313130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Martin Henriksen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 85 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a full or partial curfew for asylum seekers under 18 years of age) and motion for a resolution No. B 86 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the automatic withdrawal of residence permits for foreigners who have received cash benefits or take-off benefits for three years). Trine Torp (SF), Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Christian Poll (ALT) and Ida Auken (RV): Motion for a resolution No. B 87 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Green Denmark Card and the possibility for municipalities to designate Natura 2000 sites). Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 88 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the removal of passports in the event of a personal appearance and limitation of the number of missing passports). Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 89 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the increase in tobacco tax). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130143	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 42 by Christian Langballe (DF), Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 42 adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130247	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130258	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130314	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130334	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL, SF and ALT) and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the amendment 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL, SF and ALT) and voting is possible. The vote is over. For the amendment 19 (EL, ALT and SF) voted against 83 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1-4, 7 and 9-10, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'll wait a minute until those who aren't supposed to be here have left; there's got to be a little quiet. Now we have had the opportunity to finish and go out, and then we will start the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130615	The debate is open. Mrs. Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130627	The bill here translates the agreement on strengthened action etc. In the financial sector, an agreement was concluded in the early summer between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF. The aim of the draft law is to strengthen criminal action against money laundering. It is a proposal that comes on the basis of many cases we have seen about money laundering, not least the big case of Danske Bank, which was a very, very far-reaching case of money laundering. Specifically, the proposal means that money laundering is separated from the current heeling provision to constitute an independent provision on money laundering. At the same time, the draft law means that the penalty for money laundering of a particularly serious nature is increased from 6 years to 8 years. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is absolutely essential that bandits in suits are punished harshly and in cash, because it undermines our society when greedy moneymen can bypass our common ground rules. As in all other cases, however, we in the Social Democratic Party will argue that punishment cannot stand alone, because it cannot when it comes to criminal offences, it cannot when it comes to murder and violence, for example, and neither can it when it comes to money laundering. So what is crucial is also the risk of detection, which is why it is important that the agreement of June between the parties is also followed up by the efforts of the SKAT and the police, and work still remains to be done to strengthen efforts there. With these words, I must say that we in the Socialist Group support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130828	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130835	Thank you for that, President. The bill here translates into an agreement concluded in the summer of 2017 between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Radicals, the SF and the Danish People's Party. It intends to strengthen efforts in the financial sector. This will then be done in such a way as to separate an independent provision for money laundering from the heeling clause, which is now very broad. That is the one element. The second element is that penalties should be tightened up in the case of the single market and the penalty should be set for up to eight years. This is done on the grounds that, in this way, the courts will have the opportunity to strike much harder at the most serious cases where very, very serious financial crime is committed; where the money is large and the victims are many. You could imagine several different scenarios. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we adhere to the agreements that we are involved in making. We think this is a good deal, because it can help to put a lot harder on the people who are scamming with perhaps a lot of money. And, of course, they should not be able to get away with it with impunity. So I can announce that the Danish People's Party naturally supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130947	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Britt Bager, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313130953	As previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is the case that money laundering is currently being punished under the heeling clause, Section 290 of the Penal Code. The Ministry of Justice has considered it appropriate to separate money laundering from the heeling clause and to make a new provision in the Penal Code, namely Article 290a. This should make everything else equally more focused on the illegal use of money laundering and money laundering. The penalty framework for ordinary money laundering is therefore still the same. For particularly serious offences, we are raising the penalty from six years to eight years in prison, as is the case for particularly serious fraud, embezzlement and mandate fraud. The Left supports that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131049	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go. It's Rune Lund today). Well, then we'll fix this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131105	I think it was us who had miswritten. But yes, it's Rune Lund today. The purpose of this bill is to strengthen criminal action against money laundering. And it is proposed to separate part of the heeling provision for an independent provision on money laundering. It is also proposed to increase the upper penalty for money laundering of a particularly serious nature and it is proposed to increase it from 6 to 8 years. The bill is part of the follow-up to the agreement reached in June last year on strengthened efforts in the financial sector, and it was then concluded between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. And I would like to say that on the part of the Enhedslisten, we are very sorry that we could not be part of these negotiations. When, under the former government, the S-led Thorning Government, a tax havens agreement and a money laundering agreement were negotiated, these are two things which are very closely related • The Enhedslisten participated, of course, in both places. However, during the negotiations that were up to the summer of last year, when there was a tax haven agreement negotiated in the Ministry of Taxation and where a money laundering agreement was negotiated in the Ministry of Business, we participated from the Enhedslisten only in the part concerning the Treasury. We were very unhappy about this because things are very closely linked and we raised it several times in the negotiations. I can also say that we support all the concrete elements contained in the agreement on money laundering concluded on 21 June. I think that the process raises a more fundamental discussion about conciliation and the scope of conciliation, and it seems, when we talk about the business sector, that the parties involved in the bank packages, in which Danish taxpayers' money was made available to the banks for thousands of billions and saved them, automatically become participants in various negotiations concerning the financial sector as such. In those cases, only the bank-packing parties are still being invited to negotiations, and that is something that we are very dissatisfied with. In relation to the concrete, but also in relation to the more fundamental, we find that the conciliation institution, the way a conciliation works, is increasingly becoming such a form of parallel parliament today, in relation to the fact that matters are then lifted out of this Things, but in fact also lifted out of the committees, the permanent committees of the Folketing, which work here. It is clear that conciliation parties must be invited to implement the text of a conciliation agreement. However, when it comes to issues which are outside the scope of the conciliation procedure, all parties should be invited until it has been tested whether there is anything to negotiate. And that was particularly so in this case, because the Enhedslisten is precisely included in the tax havens agreement negotiated and concluded on 17 May last year. It was an agreement in which all the Danish Parliament's parties participated and in which Enhedslisten seems to be very important, among other things. because the fight against multinational companies, which pay very little or even nothing in the SKAT, has been a matter for Enhedslisten for many, many years. So, in any case, even if we do not see the justification for not extending the scope of the contract, which we have also asked about, and have been rejected around, we will of course vote in favour of this bill, just as we also expect to vote in favour of the other legislative proposals, which will follow on from the money laundering agreement concluded last June.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131456	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131503	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here is part of an agreement to strengthen efforts to combat money laundering in the financial sector concluded by the government with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF in June 2017. In relation to Mr. Rune Lund's comments may I just say that, since we as the Enhedslist could not be included in the agreement, it is a good thing that we can come here and express our positive opinion on the draft law. In the Liberal Alliance, we are also in favour of the inclusion in the criminal code of an independent laundering clause in this bill, and also of the fact that the bill provides for an increase in the upper penalty framework from 6 years to 8 years for people who commit very large-scale money laundering. It is an essential aspect of the whole fight against money laundering that the courts can impose effective sanctions that are proportionate to the gravity of the infringements. It is important to emphasise the seriousness of the matter and to make it clear that money laundering is subversive and totally unacceptable. It is therefore positive that the courts are now given greater scope to measure appropriate severe penalties in the most serious cases of money laundering. Against this background, we support the Liberal Alliance bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131632	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131638	Thank you. The alternative also supports this proposal to make an independent provision in the criminal code on money laundering. After all, the aim of the bill is to strengthen criminal action against money laundering. It is therefore proposed to separate part of the heeling provision into a separate provision on money laundering, so that the criminal code will in future contain the special provision on money laundering. The proposed money laundering provision is aimed at money laundering, both when it directly proceeds from the crime, such as: by a theft is money, and when the proceeds of other than money have been converted into money that is then laundered. It is also proposed to increase the upper penalty for particularly serious money laundering from 6 years to 8 years in order to ensure that the courts have the opportunity and scope to measure the necessary severe penalties, including in the case of money laundering. I also think it is important to say here from the platform that the Intergovernmental Body, Financial Action Task Force, FATF's, evaluation of Denmark from June 2017 recommends that Denmark criminalise money laundering. The fact that we now have a higher penalty framework which allows the courts to take into account the measure of punishment at the level they consider appropriate, in relation to the severity of the crime, we also support it. So we say yes here from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131814	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131820	Thank you. We can also support the elements contained in the legislative proposal, which are based on an agreement that we have been part of ourselves, namely the separation of money laundering into a specific paragraph and then the increase in the upper penalty framework. However, we also note that there are several consultation responses which point to a fact that goes across very many different areas, namely that increased penalties do not necessarily have to have a criminal prevention effect in themselves. That is why, of course, it is also important to give priority to investigation and prosecution if we really want to solve this problem of money laundering. And in those words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131906	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313131915	As my fellow Members have mentioned, this bill is the implementation of the agreement that we were a large number of parties concluded last summer, one of the elements of which was that money laundering should have its own separate paragraph in the criminal code and that we tightened the penalties from six to eight years. Unfortunately, it is very topical to discuss money laundering. We have a current case with the country's largest bank... a case that is being discussed and has been discussed for a long time... where an historically large amount of money, 18 billion. kr., apparently has been laundered through an Estonian department and used in completely unacceptable ways, including: to raise confidence in one of the dictatorships of this world, Azerbaijan, has been used to bribe European politicians and really, very much more. This case has been set in motion because Berlingske, together with a number of other international media in an international journalism consortium, has raised this issue. This also raises a number of more fundamental questions. It is really nice that we have media that take their responsibilities seriously and their digging work seriously, but would this case have rolled in the same way if it had not been for that work? This is an ongoing discussion, and both the Minister for Justice and his colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, have also been convened in consultation on this particular issue. Because it is a very good thing that we have a separate paragraph in the criminal code; it is fine with a punishment, but what happens to the cases? Are they coming for a day? Are they even going to trial? What are the consequences of this? That is also one of the things I am going to discuss with the Minister, not so much today, because it is, after all, the implementation of an agreement that has already been concluded, but on a regular basis, how we ensure that it is not just rhetoric of harsher penalties, but that we actually get some of these scandals rolled out. There is a lack of resources from our public authorities in the Financial Supervisory Authority, from the bailiff police, etc.? Or what's missing to roll this out? Of course, we support the bill. This is part of an agreement we have reached in an area where it is only becoming more and more urgent. Especially when we see even Denmark indirectly involved in one of the biggest money laundering scandals ever, it is of course only appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132219	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132223	Thank you. It is just an entirely open question for the rapporteur. I think that was a very sensible rapporteur's speech, and I understand that we agree with the Socialist People's Party. However, much was said about the need to enforce the rules now too, and I fully agree with that. Then a number of instruments were mentioned. I just got curious. If the Socialist People's Party were able to decide such a thing itself and had 90 mandates, what would be the focus of the government's efforts to ensure that more cases were brought before a judge and these new provisions were used to set a very high standard of hope and to impose severe penalties if people commit very serious financial crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132301	That's a really, really good question. Because when we talk to the ministers and when we have consultation about this very thing and in those matters Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen and I were colleagues too, and we are asking whether there are enough resources in the back-up police, in SØIK, if there are enough resources in the FSA, if there are enough resources to investigate this, when there are so many other tasks, we are told that resources are appropriate, even though we have been able to see a fall. We are told that a money laundering secretariat has been set up, that is fine, but with fewer resources than before. It is an unreasonable task that we, as politicians, put officials in the Financial Supervisory Authority, from the bailiff police, etc. It is very difficult to sit in front of a minister on his resort area and say that no, we do not. That is why my honest answer is that I do not know, and I do not believe that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen knows. After all, it is a fundamental problem that we do not have a knowledge of whether there are enough resources for this area, which is only getting bigger. We can see that, in general terms, crime is falling, but economic crime is increasing. That is why, of course, there must be the resources for the area that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132423	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132426	Now I got a little courage on the second round, because what I was perhaps fishing for a little bit was whether you could also get a very clear statement from the SF, now that we are discussing precisely authority efforts in an extremely important area. Because there is some police, that is, some jurisdiction, but there is also something in relation to SKAT. Fortunately, we have over a few years now seen the right way to get people employed in SKAT and admitted to police training to take these examples. They are also increasing. So perhaps it was a very good opportunity for the SF rapporteur to say that we will not return to the course that has been taken in the past, with regard to taxation, with regard to the police, that is to say to get the staff that I hear the rapporteur say should be available.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132509	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132510	But it's very important for SF, as I think it's also for DF that there's the resources that should be in SKAT, in the FSA, in the bailiff police, everyone who works with this area. There is nothing more destructive to morals than the fact that large-scale tax evasion or tax evasion or money laundering is committed, which is used both by different channels to evade some money, but is even used for deep criminal purposes • sometimes for terror, for bribery, for all sorts of other things. Having said that, I also think that, at a time when we have better time, we need to discuss the role of the FSA and the current design and viability problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132553	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132601	In June 2017, Denmark's money laundering law came into force and the aim was to ensure that Danish companies were not to be abused in money laundering. And this was an important step in combating crime in the field of money laundering. A month later, the government concluded an agreement that hard action should be taken against money laundering. Today's legislative proposal translates two of the nine points contained in the agreement, and most importantly, the penal framework for money laundering is now being raised from six to eight years in prison. In doing so, we are giving the courts a better chance of giving those who commit money laundering an appropriate severe punishment. In view of this, of course, it does not make sense for money laundering to be dealt with in the same provision as heeling where there will be no need for an increased criminal framework. With the increase in the penalty, we are sending out a clear signal that money laundering is not tolerated and cannot pay off. The use of a separate provision also makes it easier to see the effect of the agreement in question and to see how the courts use the provision. All in all, this is a sensible legislative proposal that we in the Conservative People's Party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132724	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132730	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches today and for their support for the proposal. The aim is, after all, to strengthen criminal action against money laundering, in which some seek to conceal the origins of illegally earned money. There are three elements to the proposal. Firstly, it is proposed to separate part of the heeling provision into a separate criminal provision on money laundering. Secondly, it is proposed that the new money laundering regulation should also include so-called self-laundering, that is, where the same person first obtains a profit from crime and then launders the proceeds. Thirdly, it is proposed to increase the upper penalty for money laundering of a particularly serious nature from 6 to 8 years. The aim of this is, of course, to ensure that the courts have room for manoeuvre to measure the necessary severe penalties even in the most common cases of money laundering. We have already had a case in which a particularly serious case of heeling, which in future will be covered by the proposed money laundering regulation, was punished by six years in prison. With these comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and look forward to further consideration. I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may arise during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132851	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132904	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313132917	The proposal here involves slightly different elements of the Code of Procedure, which, on the one hand, must strengthen cooperation on patents and, on the other, must ensure the effectiveness of our legal system. The first part of the proposal comes in the light of a desire from industry for greater confidentiality between companies and their patent advisers. These are schemes which are known from among others. Sweden and Finland, where experience is good. In concrete terms, the proposal provides that the rules of the Code of Procedure relating to the expulsion of witnesses to certain groups of persons in Section 170 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, extended to patent advisers recognised under the rules of the European Patent Convention. The bill also provides for the introduction of an authorisation for the Minister of Justice to lay down rules on applications for free process, which will in future be submitted digitally to the Danish Civil Service via a digital solution that the Danish Government will make available. We are therefore dealing here with a proposal which aims to ensure greater efficiency both in terms of administration, but indeed also for companies, which must be assumed to have digital access. In relation to the administrative aspect, it is also proposed to extend the right of the President of the Court of Justice of the City Courts and the Maritime and Commercial Courts to authorise the officials of the Court to perform certain tasks of a procedural nature, as expressed in the proposal. At the same time, it is proposed that the legal competence of the Maritime and Commercial Court be extended to cover business secrecy cases. In relation to the last part, the appropriateness of legislation can always be discussed in the order in which it is adopted. Well, here we start by deciding who should administer the law, and then we pass the law afterwards. You can also say, and I think I've said this many times before in this Parliament hall, that it's a little problematic to make as big joint proposals as we've been doing here. Having said that, however, it is quite difficult to disagree with the many different elements presented in the proposal. Speaking of the confusion of many different themes, it's just to take the last part of the proposal with a • there's also an adaptation of the law on the administration of justice that concerns Bornholm. Bornholm must be treated in the same way as the rest of the country, and it is therefore proposed that special rules on the decision-making powers of the court of Bornholm should be abolished in connection with the use of alternates or the appointment of an additional judge and judge. We support the proposal on the part of the Social Democratic Party. It is a proposal which consists of an incredibly wide range of elements which, as I have said, can be discussed together. But we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313133239	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313133246	Thank you. With the change of law, we will be able to optimise the usefulness of written and accurate patent advice from a very early stage in the innovation process and product development. At the same time, it ensures that Denmark has a legal status similar to that already in force in the European Patent Office. It will apply to cases before the Single European Patent Court when it enters into force. There is a level playing field with competitors in the countries around us, where what the draft law has been in force for many years and considered to be a matter of course. It is possible to consult Danish patent advisors under the same conditions as if you choose to use patent advisors established outside Denmark today. The second part of the bill is that the Civil Service is allowed to obtain information from the citizens' annual report. For when citizens have to apply for freedom of movement, they must know their annual balance sheet and know what their income has been. In this respect, we need to pay attention to the fact that it has to be digital that we have some older people in Denmark who are not as digital as some of us might be. So I would therefore like to propose that we in the committee work should just take care of the elderly, who are not IT experts or are not on the Internet, and that we retain the possibility that they can still do the same without having a digital solution. But the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313133433	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313133439	We are discussing the draft law here, which concerns the excavation of witnesses for patent advisors and compulsory digital self-service when applying for free process. Persons who are bound by professional secrecy may provide evidence in court on matters covered by the obligation of professional secrecy only if consent is given by the person protected by the obligation of professional secrecy. This applies today, among other things. for doctors, priests, lawyers, etc. Thus, a patent adviser whose duties may largely be the same as those of a lawyer may today be required to explain, inter alia: further discussions with the client. This is extremely inappropriate, given that the patent adviser must have the possibility of confidentiality with his client. Abroad, therefore, patent advisers are also protected by the same rights as lawyers, i.e. they are excluded from testifying without the consent of their client. With this proposal, we are now introducing the same legal position as there are, for example, in Sweden and Finland and in many parts of the world. The confidentiality thus strengthens between the patent advisor and the client. It is a legal situation which the companies have asked for, and it is a legal situation which does not differ from, for example, that of lawyers. The Left can therefore fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313133608	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313133616	Thank you. This draft law from the Minister of Justice is made up of five very different elements. As Mrs Trine Bramssen also mentioned, it is a bit of a bag of mixed candy. I would therefore like to concentrate on the proposed rules on witness exclusion for patent advisors and on the digitisation of applications for free process, as we in the Enhedslist consider the other elements of the bill to be completely unproblematic. The comments to the bill argue convincingly that Danish companies are disadvantaged in competition with companies from e.g. The United States, when the patent advisors of Danish companies are obliged to disclose information which the patent advisors of US companies can withhold. The Consumer Council Think points out in the hearing that there is a risk of a slippery path if patent advisors are equated with priests, doctors, lawyers and legal brokers, that is, persons who, for reasons other than purely commercial ones, should be excluded from bearing witness to matters that people have entrusted to them in the expectation of professional secrecy. We have the same concerns as the Consumer Council Think of putting the patent board of private companies on the same footing as priests and doctors, but after a balance, we have come to the conclusion that important reasons are there to ensure that Danish companies are not at a disadvantage than companies from other countries, not least on the basis that Sweden already made sure in 2010 that Swedish companies were worse off than Americans. That is why, on the whole, we are positive about this part of the legislative proposal. The possibility of seeking a free process is an essential element of legal certainty in Denmark for those citizens who do not have the large fortunes or high incomes. Now the government is proposing that applications for free process should be submitted digitally as a starting point. I have noted that a derogation is provided for if the applicant has a disability or if she or he does not have the great IT skills. The Consumer Council Think and the Elders The case puts the emphasis in their consultation answer on this possibility of exemption. So do we in the Enhedslisten. As long as there is a possibility of exemption and as long as the Civil Service remains obliged to provide the necessary guidance to citizens, we are in the Enhedslisten in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313133832	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313133840	The legislative proposal we are discussing here, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, contains several different parts. Without wishing to go through all the elements, however, I would like to say that this includes, among other things: ensure that Danish companies using patent advisors are placed in the same way as foreign companies in patent proceedings. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe it is important that we work from a political point of view to ensure that Danish companies are not put at a competitive disadvantage compared to foreign companies. It's actually pretty crucial. Unfortunately, this seems to be the case at the moment, as the rules of the Code of Procedure do not include patent advisors, which particularly affects Danish companies who want to be active on, for example. the American market. Danish companies are therefore at risk, as the rules now stand, of being placed at a disadvantage compared to competing foreign companies, which are subject to rules of confidentiality. Therefore, it makes sense to adjust the law so that we solve that problem. With the bill, we also change the rules so that applications for free process will be made digitally in the future. The Civil Service Agency receives about 3,000 applications for free process annually and estimates that in two thirds of applications there is a lack of necessary information. By making the application process digital one will be able to address the problems and save time and resources. As always, in the Liberal Alliance, we support more effective measures to facilitate the handling of cases for the benefit of both citizens and the case workers themselves, and that is why we support the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134020	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134026	Thank you. After all, the proposal before us today will change the law on justice. It proposes, among other things: Witness exclusion for patent advisors and mandatory digital self-service for application for free process. These are the two main parts I want to concentrate on here. Then there are a number of other amendments to the Code of Procedure which I consider to be of a more technical nature and which we support. First of all, with this bill, the government is proposing to extend the testimonial exclusion rule, as today, among other things. is applicable to priests, lawyers and doctors, in legal proceedings to include in future patent advisers who are recognised under the rules of the European Patent Convention. The reason for this proposal, as several rapporteurs have also pointed out, is that the US legal system and its case law place Danish companies at a disadvantage in patent litigation, since these patent advisors may have to give their views on specific patent advisory information. We can certainly see the common sense in ensuring that Danish companies have the same legal status as there are in several countries around us as regards the secrecy of patent advice. In Sweden, for example, you have a lot of money. It has already been decided to introduce a national licensing system for patent advisers, as well as rules on the excep tion of witnesses to patent advisers who have obtained this authorization. Then, as I think Enhedslisten also mentioned, we also have a small concern about whether this could be a slippery slope, because we have to be very, very careful with whom we exempt from being able to testify. Today it is mainly priests, lawyers and doctors who have this opportunity to testify. You could be worried that anyone who calls himself a patent agent, since it's not a protected title, will be able to use this Witness Exclusion Rule. As I read the draft law, the Ministry has taken this into account because it has limited the rule of witness exclusion to EPAs who have obtained authorisation as European Patent Attorneys under the rules of the European Patent Convention. And on that basis, in the alternative, we're positive about giving this witness exclusion protection to these special advisors. Secondly, the bill also contains a proposal that, in future, applications for free process should be submitted digitally to the Civil Service Agency, and we also support this part of the bill. The Civic Board's inventory shows that two thirds of all applications for free process lack information that the Civic Board then has to obtain. A digital application will ensure that the information needed by the Civil Service Department for applications is collected to a greater extent, thereby eliminating duplication of effort and waste of resources. Then it is important here to be aware of whether there are citizens who do not have the ability or the resources to submit a digital application. It is important that we also take care of them. I also think the Ministry takes this into account in the bill, since the Civil Service can dispense with the requirement for digital application. That means, as I read, that citizens who have neither the ability nor the resources to do so can be exempted from having to search digitally, but can then submit the application manually, if I may say so. So we back the alternative on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134411	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134416	We also support the proposal, which, of course, consists primarily of two parts. First of all, we think that the exception to patent advisors for witness obligation is an important protection for Danish companies that would like to export to, for example. the American market. Anyone who has dealt just a little bit with patent rights and that area knows that there may be really great risks to some of these cases, and therefore it is quite fair that we provide our companies with the necessary protection that other countries already provide to their businesses. So that is only fair and fair, although there are, of course, always some reservations about extending the principle of not being subject to a witness obligation. This is usually only a matter for the profession of priest, doctor, etc., but we think that there are good reasons for extending it to this area as well. Secondly, we also think that it is fairly unproblematic to switch to digitising applications for free process, provided, of course, that those who do not have such easy digitalisation receive the necessary help or are exempted. So in those words, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134534	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134542	It's kind of a bag of mixed candy. We have chosen to look at a single element of them, and that is what is at stake: companies can have a good and relevant point in that they risk losing part of their business if their patents might go to court and be exposed. A patent counselor is not a protected title and could tempt unscrupulous companies to just call any patent counselor and exempt them from the witness stand. We can see that similar laws work well in other countries, and the SF welcomes the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134621	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134635	As it is today, we have a number of people who can be excluded from witnessing when there is an expectation of confidentiality in relation to their business. Among these, there are no patent advisers, despite the fact that they have very sensitive information with which they work. And it may be surprising when you consider how long it has been in demand among Danish business companies, which are now disadvantaged than other foreign companies in patent law cases abroad. For the same reason, the proposal has also received broad support, which can be read about in the consultation responses to the proposal. It is for patent advisers, as for lawyers, that their jobs involve treating sensitive information. A certain amount of confidentiality should therefore be expected in dealing with the company's cases. The fact is that current legislation makes life a little difficult for Danish patent advisors and puts Danish companies at a disadvantage than companies in, for example. Finland and Sweden. The proposed scheme has been in demand for a long time, has been well received and solves a major problem for Danish companies in the global market. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134757	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313134800	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive reception of the proposal. After all, the bill contains a number of amendments to the Code of Procedure, and several of them are of a more technical nature. The main element of the bill is the proposal to extend the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the exposition of witnesses to patent advisers. As has been mentioned before from today's platform, only priests, doctors, defenders, legal agents and lawyers are subject to the rules on the exclusion of witnesses. This means that as a clear starting point they cannot be interrogated as witnesses during a trial on matters relating, for example, to a client or patient. However, industry has pointed out that in patent litigation there is also a special need to ensure the confidentiality of an undertaking and its patent adviser. This confidentiality is essential for companies involved in innovation and research. Here, communication between the patent advisor and the company will often relate to business sensitivities, not least because the company's activities are often linked to very large investments. Especially in relation to Danish companies that become involved in patent cases abroad, e.g. In the United States, it could be a problem if the Danish rules do not ensure confidentiality about this advice. A Danish company is simply at risk of being put at a disadvantage than a foreign counterpart, which is subject to such confidentiality rules. With the proposal, the government therefore wishes to meet the needs identified by the business community, thereby helping to ensure that Danish companies have optimal conditions in global competition. The draft law also provides for the possibility of laying down rules that applications for free process should be submitted digitally through a digital solution in the future. The aim is therefore to allow for the transition to mandatory digital self-service, in the same way as has happened in a number of other management areas and in accordance with the common public digitalisation strategy. Today, applications for free process are often submitted by a lawyer on behalf of the applicant, and this will, of course, also be possible through the digital self-service. In addition, as mentioned above, the draft law contains a number of amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure of a more technical nature. I will not go into them, but I will refer you to my speech and comments on the draft law. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for their speeches, and I look forward to further consideration and, of course, will be available to answer any questions that may arise in the course of the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313135039	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313135051	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313135105	Thank you. I'd like to start by telling you about a girlfriend and girlfriend I met at Funen in the spring. When I met them, the young man was broken down, despondent, and frightened in a number of ways. The couple today live in hiding and with fear as a companion, and that is because they chose to go to the police after being threatened and blackmailed by a gang group. On the question of whether they would recommend others in similar situations to go to the police with their knowledge, the answer from this couple was very clear: don't testify against the gangs. The girlfriends aren't the only ones with that idea. In the autumn I unfortunately met many with the same opinion: parents whose children had been killed by gang members; homeless people who had been blackmailed or robbed; young people who had ended up in the claws of the gangs. Ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber: that is not good enough. Denmark is a community governed by law. Everyone may have the right to a fair trial, but without witnesses criminals cannot be held liable for their anti-social acts, and therefore it is our duty to provide better witness protection. In the Social Democratic Party, we have been calling for better witness protection since spring. This is true of our mayors, not least in Odense. This applies from Christiansborg. It is therefore with great satisfaction that we note that the Minister for Justice has put forward the proposal here. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the protection of witnesses, particularly in cases of gang-related crime. Specifically, it is proposed that the court should make use of the possibility of excluding certain persons or groups of persons from hearings. In concrete terms, then, when you are going to testify, you do not meet a hundred gang members standing in the procession in front of the courthouse or taking part in the courtroom. In addition, the right to require defenders not to disclose information about the name or address of a witness to the accused is clarified and provision is made for the possibility for prison officers to give evidence under partial anonymity. The last part also depends on specific cases in which we have seen prison officers who were suddenly the object of the attention of criminal groups. It is quite unreasonable because they were basically just doing their job. In addition, the possibility for witnesses to make statements via video links is extended in order to ensure their safety. Finally, aid lawyers are treated as defence lawyers in relation to the possibility of restricting their access to the file. As has been said, we in the Social Democratic Party have called for initiatives to improve the protection of witnesses, and that is why we support the proposal here today. At the same time, however, what we would like to call for is, firstly, help and support for the witnesses and, secondly, faster handling of matters in our legal system. When it comes to the accelerated procedure in the courts, it is also very much a question of cases not being postponed over and over again and only coming on after a long time. In a specific case concerning the extortion of a homeless person in Odense, the case is first scheduled after several months, and when it was appealed, it took a long time before it could be framed again, not least because the defense lawyers had no time in the calendar, and on the very day when the case was due to be brought before the court and the witness had come out of hiding and had arrived at the courthouse, yes, then the trial was cancelled due to illness. This has meant that one can only hit the case about four months later due to the busyness of the defense lawyers' calendars. The Minister has given a reply to the specific case. It is simply not a fair treatment of the witnesses that they have to wait and be on the torment bench for so long and have ruined their lives for so many months because they just want to be available to society and tell about criminals. Compared to the better help, it is also a question of ensuring psychological assistance, assistance and, above all, the possibility of offering an alternative accommodation during the period of these cases, because it is violent for them as it is about. As I said, we support the proposal, but we also need to get other tools going. Witnesses are the prerequisite for a community of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313135554	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313135610	The proposal we are dealing with now is very, very important because precisely in this area there are incredibly many unhappy fates, I would almost call it, after some of the cases that have been going on, and especially cases of gang-related crime, where witnesses have been subjected to completely unreasonable pressure, and that must of course stop. It is vitally important that protection is high when it comes to the witnesses who run in the courts and tell what they may know. And that is why it is in our efforts to get some of the hardest criminals behind bars well and joyfully that the government has now put forward this bill that will help to take care of the witnesses who, with their testimony, are taking care of Denmark and all of us. The proposal suggests that the courts should be given better opportunities to exclude certain groups from the halls, groups which could help to press the witnesses only if they are present in the Chamber along the way. It is a tool that we are very pleased that the government is using, because I can understand that you are worried if you are going to testify against people who you know are tough gang criminals and know that a very large group of friends are sitting in the gallery and watching you and listening to what you say. I think that for a great many ordinary people it must seem like a very, very great and very unpleasant pressure. Then the possibilities for the defence lawyers to gain insight into very personal information about the witnesses are tightened up and, of course, this is also a proposal that we can support. If we are to get people to testify, especially in the cases of gang criminals, it is a tool that will undoubtedly be used, otherwise it will be difficult in the future to get people to do this kind of thing, and so will some of these cases already be today. Then I think it is particularly good in this draft law that it is also proposed to do something about the fact that it will be harder to get information from our prison staff who will testify. They can look forward to about the same protection of their information as police officers, and so there will not have to be private addresses in the future, but places of employment, just as you do not need to use surnames, you can use first name and identification numbers, and we think that is a great step forward. In the past, as far as I remember, we have worked with the Socialists to make it much easier for the prison staff to provide information if there is a need to inform the authorities about something, so that the staff, without having to give their name or at least in anonymised form, could tell them what they might know if it was about curbing potential crime. I am well aware that it is not exactly the same as proposed in this proposal, but I do think that the direction is right and it is good that the government has brought it into the proposal. Then there is one important thing, too, and that is that the many new technical possibilities that exist today also allow for a much greater use of different telecommunications and video communications to interrogate witnesses, instead of having to sit in the same room as some people they are very insecure about being with, and we hope that this means that more witnesses will experience less pressure when they have to make their statement. So all in all, the Danish People's Party can of course support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313135937	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313135944	Truthful testimony is one of the pillars of the evidence in court cases here in Denmark. It is therefore important that witnesses are not prevented from giving a truthful explanation. Unfortunately, in far too many gang-related cases, we see that witnesses have forgotten the circumstances of the case out of fear of reprisals. We must prevent this from happening as far as possible by the Folketing. The Minister for Justice's proposals here contain essential elements in order to provide a true explanation in court. I am thinking, in particular, of the part of the proposal which concerns the right of the court to deny certain groups, not least biker groups, access to the court. As things stand today, it is quite grotesque that the accused gang member may be taken out of the courtroom to a listening room when the witness has to give a statement, while at the same time a whole group of other gang members sit at the back of the courtroom and stare down the witness. This is not sustainable and we in the Left therefore welcome this part of the proposal. Another part of the proposal, which I would like to highlight, is the right to require defenders not to disclose information about the witness's name or address at an early stage of the proceedings. If, for example, a defender in preparation for the case informs the accused of the identity of the witness, it is completely irrelevant that at a later stage the court arrives that the witness must be protected and anonymous. Here's the run, and the defendant knows the witness's identity. This bill doesn't extend the possibility of anonymous witnesses. Unfortunately, there has been a great misunderstanding about this in the press. The press has reproduced the proposal as an extended opportunity to lead anonymous witnesses. This proposal means that at an earlier stage of the investigation, the police can inform the defender of the order not to disclose the witness's identity. All of this is in order to ensure a better opportunity for the witness to remain anonymous. The proposal here also contains good, sensible rules to ensure the legal position of the prison officers in connection with a testimony. The legal position of the prison officers is particularly vulnerable, and we must protect them. The Left can support this proposal in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313140222	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313140229	Thank you. Protecting witnesses in the judicial system involves some legal political dilemmas. On the one hand, the important consideration is that witnesses of a crime can give a truthful explanation in a secure environment without fear of reprisals or threats from the perpetrator or persons associated with the perpetrator. On the other hand, of course, there is the need for the defendant to have a fair trial with all the means to refute false testimony. In some cases, a closer knowledge of the witness's identity will be crucial to the defence, and in those situations the total anonymisation of the witness will pose a legal problem. The dilemmas of the legislative proposal we are discussing today are very clearly reflected in the consultation responses that have been received. Where e.g. The advisory services and the association Help Victims of violence are mainly positive towards the elements of the bill, warns the Lawyers' Council, the Judicial Union and the National Association of Defence Attorneys against several parts of the proposal. In the Enhedslisten, we believe, as a starting point, that the bill has succeeded in finding a sensible balance in the fight against the problem that some citizens and some public servants feel insecure about witnessing in criminal proceedings. Society has an important obligation to ensure that citizens can confidently testify and contribute to the resolution and punishment of crimes at a time when gangs and bikers commit serious organized crime and sometimes shoot in the streets of the major Danish cities. The Government proposes that a court should take the decision to exclude certain persons or groups from a hearing if necessary to obtain a truthful explanation. The crucial thing for us in the Enhedslisten is that the basis for the court's assessment of whether exclusion is necessary is not changed ■ that it is therefore still up to the courts to make the estimate. That is why we are immediately in favour of this amendment, although we can agree with the Association of Legal Affairs that the proposal may seem superfluous, precisely because the basis of that estimate already exists today. According to the proposal, the identity of a witness must be kept secret from the defendant as early as the investigation. Here, too, we are, as a starting point, positive, although we are aware of the objection of the Association for Legal Policy that the proposal may lead to unnecessary instructions for the defender in criminal proceedings. In other words, there is good reason to follow developments in the issuing of defense orders by the courts if this arrangement becomes a reality. The proposal provides for prison officers to appear on witness lists only with their first name, place of employment and ID number. We agree that it is absolutely essential to protect the people we have set up to do the important work in our prisons, and we have attached ourselves to the fact that the partial anonymisation of prison officers can be waived in cases where it would be problematic for the defence of defendants. According to the bill, the consideration of a witness's safety should mean that the witness should be interrogated per year. video link. In Enhedslisten we have listened to the criticism of the National Defence Attorneys Association, which believes that there are better opportunities to assess the witness's credibility when the witness is physically present in the courtroom. This objection means that the development of testimony on video should be followed closely in the coming year. However, we have taken note of the fact that it is not the intention that the rule should be applied when it comes to a key witness in a trial. That is why we are, as a starting point, also positive about this change. Finally, the government proposes to change the access of aid lawyers to material in criminal proceedings, in the same way as access by defence lawyers may be restricted. We consider this equality to be quite reasonable. Overall, Enhedslisten considers that the legislative proposal has succeeded in finding a sensible balance, and this means that we are, as a starting point, positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313140640	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313140648	It is one of the cornerstones of our legal system to ensure that citizens can safely testify in court. It is fundamental for the maintenance of a well-functioning legal society that one can testify without fear of the consequences of it. Therefore, in November 2017, the government presented the play-out "Security for Witnesses', and the bill that we are dealing with here is to implement the parts of the play-out that require legislation. The action is necessary, as we have seen several examples of cases where witnesses have not wanted to testify for fear of being sought out or otherwise molested. In addition to the insecurity of the Witnesses, this is a problem for both society and the victims. It is extremely important that witnesses are protected to a greater extent, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance welcome the fact that earlier this year the government has tightened the sentence for witness threats by one third. It's a step on the way. With this bill, we are then taking further steps in the right direction, among other things. by allowing certain groups or persons to be denied access to a hearing. The proposal also extends the possibility of giving evidence as a witness through a video link in cases where particular consideration of the witness speaks for it. These measures are necessary to ensure as secure a framework as possible for witnesses in court proceedings. It is essential that we, as a society, ensure the security of justice, and that is why we support the Liberal Alliance bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313140828	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313140839	Thank you. Today we have to deal with Bill 158 on increased protection of witnesses, and what this is all about here is making sure that witnesses dare to speak freely and dare to tell about what they have seen without feeling threatened. That's the whole foundation of this bill. Conversely, it is also the case that the accused must be given the opportunity to hear the witness concerned, must be given the opportunity to deal with it, and the defence lawyers must be given the opportunity to listen to the witness. That is why it is a balancing act, in other words, that the fact that we are able to exclude the accused from the hearing in order to be able to hear the witness can cause a problem in relation to the case itself, in relation to the legal certainty of the accused. So these are the two elements we need to keep up with each other. And I really don't think that's an easy matter. I note that the proposal is praised from several quarters for being a significant step towards a genuinely improved legal position for the witness, and that is, among other things, the case. the organisations which take it as their starting point. On the other hand, there are some of the other organisations, among others. The Association of Judges and the Association of Judicial Policy, which seems to us to be inappropriate. We are there where, in principle, we are in favour of protecting the witness and the victim if, of course, legal certainty is taken into account at the same time. I note that the Court of Justice Association considers that the bill is in fact superfluous, since the President will continue to be left with an estimate of whether an exclusion is necessary in order to obtain a true explanation from the witness. The bill also contains a proposal that a witness's name or address should not be disclosed to the defendant. The change means that the police are already being given the opportunity at the investigation stage to notify the defender of the order not to disclose information about the place of residence of a witness, etc. to the defendant in the interests of legal certainty of the witness. The intention is that the police should make use of this possibility, in which the prosecution intends to ask the court in the main proceedings to order that the information in question should not be communicated to the defendant. I support the National Association of Defence Attorneys' Hearings in which they call on the police to ensure that it is made clear where in the case file identity information which the defender is required not to disclose to the accused is listed, for example. by indicating this information on a separate sheet. Then it is also proposed that prison officers can give evidence under partial anonymity, and this means that prison officers who have to testify should only give their first name, place of employment and employee number, that is to say their employee ID. The defence officer will continue to have access to the full name and address of the person concerned if it affects the defence of the defendant. The proposed system of partial anonymisation of prison officers is intended to enable the accused to identify the persons concerned by virtue of their function in the prison or in the detention centre, whereas the accused must not, as a rule, have access to information on the surname and place of residence of the persons concerned, since this information is rarely considered to be relevant to the defence of the accused. We believe it is essential that the prison staff are guaranteed and protected in the best possible way, and that is why we see this as positive. Then the opportunity for witnesses to make statements via video links is extended for the sake of their safety and to avoid witnesses refraining from giving a truthful explanation for fear of reprisals. The scheme is specifically intended for criminal proceedings related to the gang environment or other organised crime. It may also be dealt with in other types of case, e.g.: in certain cases of more serious personal crime. However, the system cannot be applied to key witnesses who are important to the decision of the case, which we consider essential to the defendant's defence. We also believe that the clear starting point that proof must be given immediately before the courts must be maintained. It is a core principle of our rule of law and it strengthens the court's ability to judge the credibility of the witness. Finally, aid lawyers are treated as defence lawyers in relation to the possibility of restricting their access to the file. This part of the bill does not give rise to any comments. All together, we support this bill. We think that the right considerations have been taken into account, so that the alternative backs it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313141412	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313141418	Thank you. It is, of course, a fundamental principle of our administration of justice that there is public access. It is an important principle to uphold. Conversely, it is also absolutely crucial for our legal system that witnesses of crimes appear and dare to testify about them in court, but unfortunately we have seen several examples of this not always being the case. And that is a major and also a fundamental problem for our legal system. This is, of course, a difficult balance, but we think it has been found in the proposal. We can support all the elements, both the exclusion of specific persons and groups, the protection of the identification information of the prison officers, the questioning via video and the secrecy of the identity of witnesses during investigations. This is, of course, something that needs to be thought out, because it is, of course, to compromise on elements of the principle of openness in the administration of justice. However, we believe that this is justified on the grounds of the witnesses and on the grounds that they appear and testify to the crimes they have witnessed and thus help to ensure justice in our administration of justice. So the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313141539	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313141544	The prerequisite for a community of law is for us all to stand up as witnesses. Without witnesses, criminals can continue their activities. It often takes a great deal of courage to stand up to hardcore criminals. In particular, witnessing against a gang member can be highly intimidating. At the same time, if the courtroom is filled with gang members, it is easy to put yourself in the stand of the witness. It must be extremely unpleasant, and many will feel subdued if they have not already refused to appear as a witness. We must all dare to stand up with our explanations in court cases, and the witnesses who need better protection must be dealt with. Witnesses must be confident, it is the responsibility of society. But we must also keep an eye on the fact that this extended witness protection is not being abused. The bill must not lead to anonymisation of witnesses in all kinds of cases. But with that reservation and the wish that we keep the area under surveillance, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313141709	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313141714	In criminal proceedings, witnesses are often crucial to building a case. That is why they must be protected. Last month we were able to adopt a stricter penalty for threats to witnesses, and in November last year the Minister for Justice presented ten initiatives aimed at ensuring the safety of witnesses. However, there are far too many stories about people who dare not stand up and testify to the court for fear of what it can bring once the defendant finds out, and I will not blame anyone if they are insecure about having to face a gang member and testify. Unfortunately, this means that we have allowed criminals to use scare tactics to ensure that their crimes never come to justice. That's why we need to be able to exclude certain people from the courtroom during testimonials. We need to be able to allow the testimony to be made over video. We need to make sure that a gang can't just get a list of everyone who's been testifying against them, and we need to assure our prison officers that they can testify against an inmate without feeling insecure. As you know, this proposal has been met with some concern that innocent people should be convicted on the basis of lying witnesses, but we believe that our judges are perfectly capable of assessing whether a statement is truthful. The most important thing in a case is that the testimony is actually given without the witness having to fear for himself or for his loved ones. The judge can then assess whether the statement is credible. And we don't think the defendant should be in the same room as the witness in order for the judge to assess it. All in all, a very sensible proposal that we in the Conservative People's Party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313141913	The Minister must, of course, also take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313141924	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the rapporteurs for today's speeches. As mentioned by several people, on November 27, the government launched the film "Security of Witnesses," also called the Witnesses' Package. The aim of the action was to strengthen the protection of witnesses, particularly in cases of gang-related crime. This bill aims to implement those parts of the witness package that require legislative changes. Witnesses' contribution to legal proceedings is one of the cornerstones of our legal system, and therefore it must be safe for citizens to testify. Especially when it comes to cases of grosser character, gang crime, and murder, individual witnesses may feel exposed. Fortunately, most of us do not witness serious crime, so witnessing in a courtroom will be new to most people. And that is why it is crucial that we, as a society, take the best care of those who testify. As a witness, you must experience that your security is safeguarded and that it is quite clear what processes you are going through. For persons who, for example, have to testify in a gang crime case, it may seem very uncomfortable if there are gang members in the courtroom as listeners. Against this background, it is proposed that in future the courts should refuse access to a hearing to certain persons and groups of persons if this is deemed necessary in order to obtain a true explanation of a witness or party. At the same time, it is proposed that the court should be able to rule on this in advance so that, even before they appear before the court, witnesses know that such hearers will not attend their explanation. In addition, it is proposed to clarify the police's access to order the defender not to disclose information about the name or place of residence of a witness to the accused in the course of the investigation. This possibility is expected to be used if the prosecution will ask the court to decide that this information may not be communicated to the perpetrator. The early focus must therefore ensure that the court's ability to decide on the secrecy of information does not become illusory because the defendants have already become aware of it. Prison officers are increasingly being subjected to violence or threats, including: where they are required as witnesses to give evidence in criminal proceedings. Prison officers carry out an important social task and are particularly vulnerable to violence and threats from, among others. inmates in prisons. That is why the draft law proposes that in future prison officers may give evidence under partial anonymity. This means that in future the officers must be able to identify with their first name, employee ID and place of employment, unless the court decides that knowledge of the full name of the prisoner is relevant to the defendant's defence. Witnesses must, as a starting point, appear before the judicial court. However, it can be seen as inconvenient to give a statement while sitting face to face with the perpetrator, and it is therefore suggested that in future the concern for the safety of the witness should be given greater weight when the court assesses whether a statement can instead be made via video connection. Finally, it is proposed to equate aid lawyers with defence lawyers in relation to the possibility of restricting their access to material in criminal proceedings. Witnesses need to be safe. They need to know that we as a society are looking after them, and that is a crucial part of the fight against crime. Because only if each of us feels secure about testifying against the criminals can we fight them. With these comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for their speeches, and I look forward to the further discussion here in Parliament. I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may arise during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313142304	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313142316	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313142324	The other day I was in Padborg, and when I was taking the train home, four soldiers came to the station. On their shoulders they had a yellow volume on which there were police. The four soldiers were to assist the police in controlling the train that came from the south. They were standing by the doors... two at each door... while the police checked the passports of the passengers on the train. It was extremely effective, and there was also great satisfaction among the four soldiers with whom I spoke about the tasks. This experience is, of course, very good in terms of the proposal we are discussing here today. Because it is a fact that right now we are in a situation in Denmark where we simply do not have police officers enough to be able to carry out all the tasks that are in that country. One can always be hindsight, but the fact is that five years ago no one had predicted what terrorist threat there would be in Denmark that there would be so much pressure on the Danish borders that there would be gang conflicts, cybercrime and financial crime to the extent we see today. That is why we have a resource challenge until we have enough trained police officers and therefore closer cooperation between police and defence is a good solution. The closer cooperation in everyday life should also not be underestimated in relation to the day when we are in a very critical situation in Denmark or in an even more critical situation in Denmark, one might say where all preparedness should be activated. It was also one of the points that the soldiers in Padborg gave me home; this is that when you know each other well and each other's ways of working, everything else is just easier to gather together in a crisis situation and make it work. The proposal we are discussing here today is not, in fact, about whether soldiers should help the police or not. It provides for the introduction in the police law of a comprehensive regulation of the types of tasks which the police may request to receive assistance from the defence to resolve and the powers of defence staff, including the Home Guard, to be granted in this context. In other words, it is the framework for cooperation that we are discussing here today, not whether cooperation should be sought. The proposal also proposes to amend the Code of Procedure in order to extend the competence of the independent police prosecutor, the DUP, so that in future the police prosecutor will deal with matters relating to defence personnel when staff assist the police. And not least, after negotiation with the Minister for Defence, the Minister of Justice can lay down rules for the access of the defence to the establishment of temporary military areas to prevent and avert dangers to Danish and foreign military personnel and equipment located outside permanent military areas in this country. Just to repeat: the discussion here today is not about whether the defense should help the police; we have already adopted the framework for cooperation. And in the Social Democratic Party we think it is very good that frameworks and powers are clarified; in fact we cannot be otherwise familiar. Now that we have decided that the defence should help the police, it is our duty to ensure that the framework is perfectly clear. That is why we support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313142712	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313142722	The clear starting point today, and this will be the case in the future, is that the police are carrying out tasks of a police nature, because that is what we basically have a police force for. In recent years, however, it has to be said that the Danish police have been under tremendous pressure. New tasks have come up and the police have been limited by the fact that the increased admission to police training will only be fully completed after a number of years when new police students become fully trained police officers. Therefore, the starting point must, of course, be that the Danish police must continue to strengthen, that the increased take-up will continue in the coming years, and that significant resources will continue to be provided to the police for the rest of the duration of the multiannual agreement. It is not a question of the defence in this way having to solve something for the police, which means less focus on solving the problems of the Danish police. It's about the Danish police hanging together, and as the police force expands, you pull on the defense's help. We think this is very good in the Danish People's Party, and we would like to see a much stronger police in the years to come, because police and defence and home defense are Denmark's muscles, and we must keep them in mind. That is why it is also gratifying that the government has put forward this bill, which is aimed precisely at ensuring good and proper cooperation between police and defence, something that our entire society enjoys. A few years ago, we proposed using the good competences that exist in the defence to relieve the Danish police, and it is so good that we now have a legislative proposal to establish the legal basis, because Denmark has not, like comparable countries, had a genuinely regulated legal basis in the past for this aid, and therefore it is good that it is now coming. The management and liability conditions when the defence staff provide assistance to the police are determined by the proposal. It's with the police. Although it will not be new, it makes sense that it is now completely sharp. It is proposed that the defence staff may exercise police powers as a result of the police law, with the authority of the National Police Commissioner, the Chief of PET and the Secretary of Defense, and we can also support that. The proposal also means that defence personnel, who may be complained about if you do some task that some may be unhappy with, have their complaints dealt with by the police prosecutor, in other words on an equal footing with the police officers with whom they may work in the situation. In our view, this is also a good solution, because just as there must be a clear framework for solving the tasks, there must also be a clear understanding of who might be complained of if some might feel badly treated. Finally, I have to say that I understand, as a matter of fact, if there are soldiers sitting out there thinking that we are also in a hurry, we also have some tasks to do, and we also have something that is a priority for us, and police tasks were not what we originally applied for. I understand that, but I also hope that there is an understanding that during this period we must ensure that the police are strengthened very quickly so that the defence staff can come back and do what they actually took an education for and the job they were actually looking for. We are in just the privileged situation in Denmark that we have some of the world's best soldiers, and therefore it makes good sense that in the particular situation in which the Danish police are in these years, we use some of the world's very best soldiers to relieve the Danish police while we get control of the police force again. There have been things in the debate in the past, and I am not worried that seeing soldiers' uniforms on the streets would seem uncomfortable for the Danes. I come from a city where we are very proud of our local barracks, where we are very proud of the efforts our soldiers have made both around the world's hot spots, but also the great signal value that lies in actually having a strong defence institution, a strong defence cluster in the area. In fact, I believe that the Danes support this, because I believe that the Danes, just as I am, like we in the Danish People's Party, are proud of our talented soldiers, but also proud of our police officers, whom we hope to have some more soon. We can support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313143150	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. We move on to Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313143157	Despite the government's initiatives with regard to assistance to the police from cadets, homeguards and the military, the police continue to be under pressure from work, and despite a greater admission to the police school as well as the transfer of police officers from bureaucratic work to real police work, assistance to the police continues to be needed. It cannot be excluded that the defence, including the Home Guard, should continue to take part in border guarding and guarding tasks in particular. Copenhagen. Unfortunately, it cannot be ruled out that exceptional situations arise again, for example in relation to acts of terrorism or critical situations of refugees, where defence efforts may again be required. That is why it is most true that, in the field of legislation too, the conditions under which the work of the defence is carried out are regulated when it assists the police. This regulation is now being made through this bill, which, among other things, includes: ensure that the assistance of the defence is provided under the direction of the police and in accordance with the rules applicable to the performance of the tasks in question by the police. As a natural consequence, it will also be the independent police prosecutor who will handle complaints about defence personnel when assisting the police in the work of the police. The citizens are thus given the same independent body, regardless of who is complained of. In any case, the Left can support the fact that, when the action is required, defence assistance to the police is regulated, as is stated in this draft law. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313143353	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313143400	Thank you. Today we see far more military in the streets than we did just a few years ago. We see, among other things. soldiers in front of Jewish buildings in Copenhagen, and we see Home Guards and occasionally also professional soldiers at the Danish-German border. There has been a change in the division of tasks between police and military, and we have long believed in the Enhedslisten that clearer rules and greater openness in this area were needed. In a dramatic arrest on September 1, 2016 in Tornby, the suspect was shot and killed. My predecessor as the legal rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund of the Enhedslisten has tried in vain to find out what role the military played in that action, just as we in the Enhedslisten have asked about the use of military in connection with the terrorist acts at the Krudtønden and the synagogue in 2015. We have also been interested in the consequences of the military apparently using more powerful weapons than the police when soldiers are to guard buildings in Copenhagen. If bullets from the military are fired with high breakthrough force and high shot speed in densely populated urban areas such as the United States, Japan and the United States. So, Copenhagen, what does that mean for the risk of being killed and injured civilians? We have not been able to get clear answers to these questions, and we have had some very unclear answers to questions as to whether the previous rules on military assistance to the police have been complied with. One might think that there are good reasons to keep certain matters secret, but we cannot escape the fact that in the military world there are far more secrets than in the police world. In the interests of transparency and legal certainty alone, there is an important point in maintaining what we see as traditional police tasks in the hands of the police. The police are trained and trained to deal with civilian citizens; they are soldiers to a much lesser extent.That is also an important point for us in the Enhedslisten. In its hearing response to this bill, the Police Union states that it involves a real paradigm shift on the issue of law enforcement in peacetime. It worries us that the police union is so worried about this case and uses such big words. After all, we in the Enhedslisten agree with the government that there may be situations where the military can help and where the military should help the police. Above all, we agree with the government that it is important to establish clear rules for this aid and for cooperation between the military and the police. However, I would like to make it clear that the Enhedslisten wishes to maintain that law enforcement in a peacetime is a police task, not a military task. We see no need for such a paradigm shift, which at least the Police Union fears in this area. It is positive about the draft law that clear rules are being created for military assistance to the police and that the independent police prosecutor's office is being given powers in relation to soldiers who carry out police duties. We will support this progress at all times, but we do not want a fundamental shift in order to give the military responsibility for law enforcement in a peacetime. We have asked a number of questions about the bill and we will do our job when we have seen the answers from the Justice Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313143738	I do not think there are any brief comments. There wasn't. Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Then we move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313143746	Thank you. Like the police, the defense solves important tasks in maintaining security and security in Denmark. Maintaining security and security in Denmark requires good cooperation between police and defence. At a time when different conditions have challenged and are still challenging the security of society, there has been a special need for good cooperation between police and defence. The defence has assisted the police in recent years in the context of increased anti-terrorism preparedness, efforts at the Danish-German border and in the context of various guarding tasks. Here the defence has helped to solve the tasks in a very good way. In the light of developments in recent years, the bill introduces a comprehensive legislative regulation on the types of tasks to which the police may request assistance from the defence and the powers to be conferred on defence personnel in this context. This is also done to strengthen the capacity of the defence to support the police and to create a clear and appropriate division of labour between police and defence. In the Liberal Alliance, we note that no new rules are being put in place to ensure that the defence is to carry out police tasks independently. In the Liberal Alliance, we also have the clear point of departure that police tasks must and should be carried out by police staff and with police material. However, having said that, it is meaningful that the police have the opportunity to draw on the defence resources in a situation where it is necessary and those situations are there and have been there. This applies in cases where police personnel and material resources are not sufficient or as suitable as defence resources, including as a result of the need for the police to give priority to their resources for other important tasks. Against this background, we support the Liberal Alliance bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313143953	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144004	Thank you. With this bill, it is intended to amend both the police law, the justice law, the defence law and the military criminal law, so that there will be a legal basis for defence assistance to the police and also an extension of the system of police charges. I think this is a very difficult legislative proposal, and I think it is because the police and the defence are two very different sizes that are trained to handle different types of tasks. These are two good state organisations which are very good at each of their types of tasks, and we want to maintain that separation. In the alternative, we do not want to militarise the public space with soldiers. There may be very good arguments to allow the two forces to work closely together on certain types of tasks, for example. We need to leave it to the police to do counter-terrorist work, but we need to leave it to the police. The increased assistance provided by the defence to the police, as is currently being done, is, in our view, a wrong priority for police resources, among other things. for the purpose of border controls. We believe that it is a slippery path to allow the defence to carry out tasks which civil authorities should carry out in peacetime and over which the police have the right. Having said that, it is very important that when we ask the defence to assist the police, there should be a comprehensive and detailed regulation of defence assistance to the police. That regulation already exists in several of our neighbouring countries. Therefore, we think that the parts of the draft law on a comprehensive, detailed legal basis for defence assistance to the police in Denmark and on what powers defence personnel, including the Home Guard, can be allocated in these contexts, are important to establish. It is also important that a clearer and more up-to-date legal basis is created for defence assistance to the police so that assistance is explicitly provided in the legislation. This also makes it clear that assistance to the police is being provided under the direction of the police and that assistance is being provided in accordance with the rules governing the performance of the tasks in question by the police. I also think it is positive that the law on the administration of justice should be amended so that the powers of the independent police prosecutor can be extended so that it can continue to deal with cases involving defence staff when staff assist the police. That is why I do not see myself in a position to take a position on the bill now. We want to look at it further in committee work, and it is because we have the basic view that we do not think that the defence as such should go in and do these police tasks. On the other hand, it is clear that, as we ask them to do so, it is also really, really important that there is a proper legal basis for how this should be done. So we are currently awaiting further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144339	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144345	Thank you. It is an important principle in Denmark that law enforcement is carried out by the police during peacetime. This is a principle with which we are very sorry to compromise. Nevertheless, this has been the case in recent years. This is due to political decisions, among others. the decision that we need a great many resources at the Danish border. It is not a resolution with which we agree, but it is a fact that there is a majority in favour of it in the Folketing, and it creates an enormous pressure in our police. That is why we also understand the desire to include defence in the situation under pressure, even though to a certain extent we think it is self-inflicted. Having said that, however, we think that the draft law is far too far-reaching. We welcome the fact that this assistance can be regulated better than it is today, but we think that the power is far too wide. First of all, it is not just a matter of power, for example. guarding terrorist targets or counter-terrorism, which is also given powers for more common everyday police tasks. Secondly, it also gives powers for defence personnel to have police powers vis-à-vis citizens. After all, it is not just us who are concerned about this, it is also points raised by the Police Union. These are also points raised by the Institute for Human Rights. You have some suggestions on how to deal with some of these concerns in the legislative proposal. For example, they're looking for... I would like to make it clear to the House that this is a matter for the Commission and the Council of Ministers. They also propose that it be assumed that defence personnel receive training and have received training in relevant legislation before they are able to exercise these powers. We are very much in agreement with this, and that is why our position on the legislative proposal is also somewhat open right now, because we can well see the need for closer regulation of the area, but we also believe that it is necessary to define the powers more and perhaps also to have some preconditions attached to these powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144627	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144630	Thank you. I was tempted by the fact that the radical rapporteur continued at least at the beginning of his speech to tell about border controls and how the apparently tormented Danish police had to be understood. I was just so curious about the example that if you imagined that the Radical Left and the rest of the Left won the next elections and abolished border controls, if the Radicals could implement it, would you have solved the resource problems in the Danish police? Would that be enough, in the opinion of the Radicals, to solve the resource problems that the Danish police currently have? Would that solve them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144707	I do not know whether they would be completely resolved, but I do believe that a step would be taken in the right direction, because a great many hours will be spent on border controls. There are a great many police circles who have themselves said that this means that they have to downgrade important police areas. It can be drugs in the nightlife, juvenile delinquency, etc. etc., that is to say, very important areas, I think. So there is no doubt that those circles would certainly be much more likely to be able to carry out their police task if they could have the resources that they are sending down to the border today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144746	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144747	Then it has to be said that the Danish police have been far too vulnerable for too many years, if such a small resource move is that we are talking about quite a few percent, part of which is provided for in the Schengen provisions, for example. the pan-European task with the external borders of Kastrup can overturn the load. In the view of the Radicals, is there not really a need for such an active approach to the macrons and for the police to be strengthened considerably more than is proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144815	I do not remember how many percent it is, but we are still talking about a percentage that the police are currently earmarking for border control and guarding. And there may be good reasons for increased guarding, but also for border controls. I have to ask the other way round: does Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, that the use of defence personnel and the move made on defence resources is enough to remedy the problems of the police? I do not think so either, because I do not believe that this trait really corresponds to the people who stand at the border because the Danish People's Party thinks they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144854	I'll give it to you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen did not have the opportunity to respond at this time. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313144903	The easy solution is not always the right solution. We don't need to deal with resource gaps in the police by jumping. The police must carry out police tasks and, if there is too much distance between our political demands on the police and resources, it must be dealt with by adding more resources or making a sharper priority, or often enough by combining them. Using soldiers for police assignments is a slippery plan and doesn't make sense immediately. It's like you've just looked out over the staff groups like that, and then you've found some in uniform and with guns. But soldiers and cops are very different. Officers are responsible for law enforcement and various day-to-day service tasks for the population. SF is opposed to a militarisation of society. There is also a good thing in the draft law, namely that cooperation now has a more formally organised basis, since we can see that soldiers are actually being used for these tasks, and in any case clear rules are good. But as it is now, SF does not expect to be able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145030	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145036	That is out of curiosity, because I do not understand the rapporteur's arguments. I understand that the rapporteur believes that soldiers will not be used to solve police tasks. That's kind of a point. But I get it that way, among other things. was because there was a lack of a legal basis. Now you come up with a legal basis, and I think that if you are as sceptical about using talented soldiers to solve these tasks as Mr. Karsten Hønge said, is it not so good that there is a legal basis which ensures that it is regulated so that it is not just something that ministers can decide, but so that there are in fact some clear rules that have been through the Folketing and tolerated that we have debated them here and we have dealt with them in the Committee on Legal Affairs? So if you're really feeling like Mr. Simpson... Karsten Hønge, should we not then stand with our arms over our heads and say that we should have adopted this, because then the legal basis is in place, and then we know exactly what the framework is?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145128	Well, well, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen has a point. And that was also the one good thing I highlighted. In other words, if it is the case that a majority wants to use soldiers, then it is a good thing that there are clear rules for it. That's a good thing. What we are afraid of is just that it leads to increased use of soldiers and we simply think we should move away from it. Police officers have to solve police tasks, and soldiers have to solve some completely different types of tasks. However, as a starting point, it is a good thing that we have clear rules and that there will be transparency about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145154	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145206	The world and Denmark have changed a lot in recent years, especially in terms of terrorism and security, and therefore we have to keep up with circumstances and time. Like many other countries, Denmark is subject to a serious terrorist threat. This does not mean that we should panic, but we must take due care. Every day the police make a huge effort to ensure the safety of the Danes. They stand at the Danish border, they patrol particularly much in vulnerable areas, which have been subject to increasing violent crime in the last few years. The police ensure our freedom, they guard the Jewish institutions, the French Embassy, they ensure the safety of demonstrations and discussion meetings, and they also look after people with a higher level of protection because of threats. All of this comes on top of the daily work of the police, which is why the government has strengthened the police, for example by increasing the police students by 300 in the 2018 Finance Act. In view of the situation, however, it goes without saying that the police are challenged, which is why it is natural that we relieve the police as much as we can now. The government has already given the defence and police an opportunity to cooperate on border control and guarding tasks. It is also part of the new defence settlement that the defence must be able to contribute more to the security and security of the Danes. However, in order for cooperation to take place in the best possible way, there is a need for a comprehensive and detailed regulation of defence assistance to the police. The bill here lays down the tasks for which the police can ask for help, as well as the powers to be conferred on defence personnel. At the same time, it must be made quite clear that the tasks of the police will always be under the direction of the police. The draft law also extends the powers of the police prosecutor so that it also includes military personnel assisting the police. Thus, we ensure that the legal certainty of the citizen is not weakened. It is the responsibility of the police to ensure the safety and freedom of the Danes, and it is also our responsibility as politicians to give the police the best possible conditions. The Conservative People's Party supports a very sensible bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145502	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145509	Thank you for the speeches and the much positive reception from the Danish Parliament, from the rapporteurs here today. As you know, Danish police have faced major challenges in recent years. This is due, among other things, to: the serious terrorist threat to Denmark, the development of the refugee and migrant situation in Europe and the current gang conflict. The police have therefore, to a greater extent than in the past, sought assistance from the armed forces, as has been the case in several other European countries facing similar challenges. Unlike several of our neighbouring countries, however, Denmark does not continue to have a comprehensive and detailed regulation of defence assistance to the police. In view of the developments that have taken place in recent years, in the view of the government, the time has come to introduce such legislation, and that is what we are talking about here today. The government is therefore proposing to introduce a comprehensive regulation of the types of tasks which the police may ask the defence for assistance to resolve and the powers of defence personnel in these contexts. The draft law will continue to provide for the solution of police tasks as a clear starting point to be carried out by police staff and with equipment at the disposal of the police. It is important to emphasise this. In addition, as is the case today, the assistance of the defence to the police will take place under the direction of the police and in accordance with the rules governing the performance of the tasks in question by the police. It is also important to emphasise. The draft law also proposes that the powers of the independent police prosecutor should be extended so that in future it will be the police prosecutor who deals with matters relating to defence staff who assist the police. Finally, the draft law proposes that, after negotiation with the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Justice should be able to lay down rules on the right of defence to establish temporary military areas. This part of the draft law aims to create clear and appropriate responsibilities and responsibilities between police and defence in the particular situations where, for example, there are: are required to establish security measures for the transfer of military personnel or equipment. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise in the course of the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145737	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145751	The debate is open. Sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145812	The draft law before us is what can be said, without speaking too loudly, first of all of a technical-administrative nature, and the Social Democrats support the proposal. There is one point that calls for our interest: the proposal that communication with the External Action Service should in future be made compulsory digital. The intention to exploit the digital opportunities and thus phase out paper forms so that it will be easier for Danes to get assistance from the External Action Service when they need it is obviously the right thing, but it is also important that the mandatory digital solution does not restrict or prevent citizens or businesses from getting the help they need. A number of ways of countering this have been described in the draft law, but there may still be reason to ask further questions about it. The Social Democrats support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145905	Thank you, sir. Nick Hækkerup. There are no brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313145918	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late. This proposal then consists of two parts, which are marvelously woven together for the present L 179. The first part on the introduction of mandatory digital communication seems to us to be quite reasonable from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. Large parts of the second part, on the clarification of the circle which can be provided for consular assistance, seem to also sound very reasonable, but there is one thing that puzzles me a little, and that is what you see when you read the comments about the Vienna Convention, which originally states that a country provides consular assistance to its own nationals. It is so translated into the law on the External Action Service. Later on, there has been a slight breach of EU law, and now it is the case that Danish aid should also be given to non-represented citizens of other EU countries. Well, then the circle has expanded enormously, but it's the law home. Nordic co-operation also plays a part, and we must now suddenly also be able to provide assistance to non-represented Nordic citizens abroad, okay, that is another extension of the framework. In this draft law, we see that it has now crept in that it is certainly also about foreigners, who are neither Nordic citizens nor EU citizens, that is. foreigners outside Denmark and the Nordic countries, but who have a fixed address in DK, i.e. in Denmark. It says that this is primarily about refugees and stateless persons, and it is then mentioned that this is already a firm practice. So I ask myself: who has introduced this practice and when has it been introduced? Because as I see it, it's actually the one that's the big difference in the substance of this bill. It is the one that really moves something in relation to existing law, and it is described in the draft law that it does not entail economic consequences and that it does not mean any change. No, it does not, because the changes involved have already been introduced as a firm practice perhaps quite a long time ago. Against this background, we in the Danish People's Party are somewhat sceptical about this first reading, and I would ask that we get an estimate of the expenditure, for example. has been for consular assistance last year, for Danish citizens plus family, Nordic citizens plus family, EU citizens plus family and these foreigners resident in Denmark. I think that it would only be fair to take a position on the legislative proposal when this expenditure has been presented, as it were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150214	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150218	Thank you. I am not so surprised by DF's comments on the proposal. I would just like to ask the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party whether we should also ask the Minister how much revenue there is for us to provide this service, because it is quite clear that there is indeed the possibility of a number of services and of sending a bill to these countries that we are now representing. And the second thing: what do we save by others helping us in situations where we cannot represent the country? I mean, we have to have the whole calculation, otherwise it doesn't serve any purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150254	These were two quite excellent questions which I am absolutely sure the Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself will be asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150308	There are no follow-up questions? Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150311	Yeah, I'm gonna jump right here for some of that stuff you hear, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen try, is to find exactly that little negative thing, although the reality here is that it is a brilliant success. Denmark as a small country now has the advantage of EU membership, so when our citizens are travelling in a country where there is no Danish embassy, and that is how it is in very many countries, they can get protection. So a specific question is: is this not something that is actually good, is it not nice that we have a protection for Danish citizens where there is no Danish embassy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150355	I can't answer that. That is the rapporteur's answer rather than I am. But if you look at how many citizens pay the External Action Service here in Denmark, you will see that it is 5.5 million people. But we then have an obligation to be able to provide some form of assistance to a very large population group, whether it is Nordic citizens or EU citizens, and now it is actually the whole world as long as you have a permanent residence in Denmark. So whether it is a good idea, I dare not say, but I think it is essential to clarify what the economy is like before you take a position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150427	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150429	I can reveal that there are very, very few places, if at all, where Denmark has an embassy, and where not also large, larger and medium-sized EU countries also have an embassy. So this is an advantage for Denmark when we have as few embassies as we do. For example: African countries, countries in the Caucasus region, in Asia, where there are no embassies for thousands of kilometres, Mr. So Claus Kvist Hansen does not admit that it is an advantage that the Danes now have an EU umbrella, so they have an embassy they can go to if they get into trouble. Then you are a fanatical opponent of the EU but all honour and respect for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150508	No, I don't think I'm fanatic. Fanatics are characterised by poor mood and self-preservation, and I do not think the rapporteur recognizes that picture. I would just like to clarify what the figures look like and, if the reality is as obvious as the rapporteur claims, it must be made clear in the answers that are being delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150528	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150535	Thank you. As my Socialist colleague has said very well, this is, of course, a matter of form in terms of implementing an EU directive on something that is actually already common practice. And as I have already revealed in my question to Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party, this is something we on the Left are actually really, really positive about and happy about, because here we really see one of the many advantages of being part of European cooperation, by the fact that there are some other countries with which we can seek assistance if some of our citizens are caught up. So without stalling the debate, I can just say that we in the Left are one hundred percent supporters of this fine proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150623	Thank you for that. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313150632	This proposal is a sensible one. It is, although it is partly born in Brussels. This must mean that the European Union will have a small positive blue cross in my book. There aren't that many of them in advance. I would like to say about the proposal that I am in favour of Denmark having a better representation in the world, and have been opposed to the embassy dismantlings we have had over the years, as it is of great importance when it comes to interfering and helping to ensure human rights and other things. It is also wrong that we are increasingly turning to commercial representation and, to a lesser extent, rights-based representations and embassies. Having said that, it is of course an advantage that we help each other to take care of our citizens at our embassies in the world. When Danish citizens get caught up in countries where we have chosen to close or do not have an embassy, it is a sensible thing that they can contact a place that will then convey contact home to the homeland. This proposal helps to facilitate and improve the service for our citizens, for Nordic citizens, for European citizens and for residents of third countries. I actually need two extra suggestions. I do not understand why it says at the end of the proposal that this proposal does not apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Why doesn't it, sir? Minister? Why hasn't the Ministry tried to make contact with Greenland and the Faroe Islands? They have even more difficulty in having a representation in the world because they are even smaller and have an even smaller economy than we are. I would like to appeal to us to try to get the Minister to ask whether Greenland and the Faroe Islands are interested in being covered before we have to deal with the proposal in the second reading, because then I think we could do it immediately. Perhaps it will cause a little extra delay, but I think it is quite unfair if a Greenlander or a Faroese comes to an embassy and then they are said not to be covered by this legislation. That would be stupid, impractical and in every way contrary to the spirit we have within the Kingdom community. The second is compulsory digital communication. On several occasions, I have not even thundered so at least warned when we are increasingly turning town halls into closed castles, where citizens are virtually unable to get through because they have to sit at home with their computers if they have to ask for one or two or three things. There's a citizen service, and it's less and less open. We don't need to expand this system, because there are still a lot of our compatriots who are not Danes, but also Danes, and also very many in the Nordic countries who do not have the opportunity and access to and insight into using a computer to get in touch. I have seen the comments, and they say that this should be taken into account to a reasonable extent, but it also says that compulsory digital communication will be introduced. There I think we should introduce digital communication at a pace so that the population is involved, and at least for some time, 15-20 years, before all Danes are very familiar with a computer or a phone in a situation where they are out in the world and are really on it. There must be an opportunity, at least through the telephone, but preferably by direct contact, if you are not in prison, to get a person you can sit across from. I think that is necessary. I have experienced several times how this digital communication helps to alienate and help to make many of our citizens simply give up getting the service to which they are entitled. I would like to ask the Minister to consider whether we cannot relax it a little and say that we guarantee, at least for almost 10, 15, 20 years, that this must of course be the case. Otherwise, in the Enhedslisten, we think it is a good and sensible proposal that shows that if you cooperate internationally, you can also benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151048	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151055	Thank you. As Mr. Nick Hækkerup, the bill is what can be called a technical bill with serenity. It implements Directive 2015/637 from 2015. What is the point of the directive is to ensure that, where appropriate, citizens of the Union can receive assistance from the representations of other EU countries if that country is not itself represented where the need for assistance has arisen. This is how things are already working now. Now it is also established that the scheme includes Nordic citizens and foreigners resident in Denmark. In addition, the draft law ensures that the EEAS is fully digitised. I cannot imagine, especially in view of the fact that the US Secretary of State has resigned, that tomorrow this will be something that draws headlines in the country's newspapers. That is why the proposal can be good enough, and indeed I think it is. That's why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151207	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151214	It's already been well considered what this bill is all about. Of course, the alternative supports this, because what is so important is that we look at how we use our cooperation both in the Nordic countries and, of course, within the European Union, also when it comes to foreign affairs. It is, of course, absolutely essential that we make these changes so that we can provide the assistance that is needed to citizens from other EU countries and, of course, not least for our citizens, given how many places in the world we are not present, to be able to benefit from the embassies of the many other good EU countries. So we warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151302	The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151309	I will be brief, because several rapporteurs have mentioned the details. It is the case that Denmark does not have embassies in all countries, but Danish citizens can, in turn, get help from another European or Nordic embassy. In the same way, of course, we also help other citizens when it becomes relevant. So the content of the draft law is already practice in the External Action Service today, so the draft law does not bring with it much new. However, this is a fine and sensible legislative proposal that we in the Conservative People's Party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151343	Thank you to the rapporteur. Well, then, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151353	Thank you, President. I apologise for the delay. The Radical Left, too, can endorse this bill, which is, of course, the implementation of a directive and, moreover, fully in line with what we want to support, namely that the European countries support each other's citizens as well as they can and without discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151412	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151423	Thank you for that and thank you for the broad support for this proposal. As many rapporteurs have also pointed out, it is more or less an implementation of an existing practice that Danes • Danish citizens and people with an address in Denmark • benefit greatly from around the world, among other things. Because we are not represented in all countries. There were a few questions that I might be able to answer right away, but otherwise we will come back to the other issues during the committee's work. Christian Juhl asked about citizens from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It is just that the law can only be put into effect for the Faroe Islands and Greenland after 1 May 2018, when the bill has been submitted to the Latting and Landsting, but Greenlandic and Faroese citizens will be covered and could receive consular assistance as before. So I do not think there is a real problem here, but let us come back to it in committee. Then it was asked about citizens who do not have access to the Internet and PC it was raised from several places. There, of course, the External Action Service will both help and guide citizens who are not able to apply digitally, for example. if a citizen does not have access to just internet or PC. Then it was also asked when a citizen would be subject to special conditions. In other words, there are examples, such as that you have a disability, do not have a social security number or are homeless. The External Action Service will then assess on the basis of a concrete estimate whether there are any particular circumstances and the citizen's description of his/her own abilities and ability to use IT tools and any difficulties in applying for help will be emphasised. An overall assessment of the citizen will then determine whether he or she can operate digitally with the help of the EEAS. There will be special circumstances if a citizen, for example: has a mental illness or is homeless, or where a self-service solution assumes the use of a social security number or a NemID, and the citizen does not have the two things. So there will be a few examples, but they will of course become fewer and fewer along the way, and more and more will be admitted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151642	Thank you to the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151703	The debate is open. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313151715	Let me begin by making it absolutely clear that the government agrees with some of the objectives of the resolution, namely that violence and terrorism from all sides and encouragement of violence and terrorism must be combated where and when it takes place. This is true in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and it is also true in all other contexts. Let me also make it quite clear that the government is strongly opposed to the practice that Palestinian self-government pays large amounts of benefits to hundreds of terrorists, which can rightly be seen as a reward for terrorism. However, the government does not agree with the means provided for in the proposal, namely that Denmark should suspend all aid to Palestinian self-government in general as a consequence of that practice, or that we should also work to ensure that the EU also suspends all support for self-government. However, before I elaborate on why the government supports part of the objective behind the resolution, but not the proposed means, I would like to emphasise a key point: financial support for Palestinian prisoners and their families is not financed by Danish aid funds or by EU funds. Denmark does not provide budget support for self-government; Danish aid funds to Palestine mainly go through multilateral organisations or joint donor arrangements where control functions are built in. The aid funds are therefore earmarked for specific actions such as state-building, economic development and human rights. In addition, Denmark carries out its own control through monitoring and financial inspection visits, so that we can ensure that the Danish funds go only for the intended purposes. Let me now go back to the question of why the government cannot support the proposed approach of the Danish People's Party. Denmark has provided assistance to Palestine since the Oslo Agreements in the 1990s. The objective is to support the construction of a Palestinian state as part of a two-state solution, thereby also supporting a peace settlement between the Israelis and the Palestinians. That is why our cooperation with the Palestinians is focused on supporting the construction of municipal authorities, on strengthening the private sector as an economic driver and on promoting human rights. These are objectives that we have in common with the international donor community at all. Moreover, these are also objectives in which Israel has a clear interest. An economic collapse of self-government can trigger an incalculable security situation, not least for Israel. Israel and self-government now have extensive security cooperation. Without that, the situation in the West Bank could develop in a very dangerous direction, including with serious consequences for Israel. At the same time, an end to international support for self-government could hardly avoid strengthening Hamas and, in any case, giving greater leeway to extremists. It is not in Israel's interest, nor is it in the interests of Denmark or Europe. Having said that, there is a problem with self-government performance practices. There are over 6 000 Palestinians in Israeli prisons. They are often referred to by Israel as a single group of security prisoners and are generally included in the very broad Israeli definition of terrorists. Although the definition is equally wide and, among other things, is equally wide. include underage stonethrowers, individuals who have protested against the occupation by non-violent means, and people who are administratively detained, then there is also part of the group of people who have carried out serious terrorist attacks and killed innocent people. It is the assessment of countries that have better information than Denmark that hundreds of the 6,000 inmates can be considered guilty of what the international community considers to be terrorist attacks. In my opinion, the core of the problem is not whether social benefits are paid at all to prisoners and their families. This is the case in many countries, including Denmark. These are services designed to ensure that families in particular can continue a reasonably normal life. No, the core of the problem is the practice of self-government to pay disproportionately large benefits to the Palestinian terrorists and their families. In fact, self-government operates in such a way that they pay higher benefits, the higher the penalty that has been paid to the sentenced person, and it is clear that this must be seen as a reward for terrorism, which is totally unacceptable. This applies regardless of the amounts involved and to which I cannot relate. The principle is completely wrong. I can sense that several donors, like Denmark, have developed a sharper attitude towards the problem. The United States is considering what can be done to promote a solution, although it is not quite clear what exactly is intended to be done. Denmark has, on several occasions, pressed for a change in Palestinian practice, and I myself raised it during my meeting with the Palestinian Prime Minister in Palestine last May. And Denmark has taken it up again with the Palestinian Government this year. However, although bilateral pressure is important, overall pressure from the EU circle is also crucial. The European Union has expressed strong concern, but more can be done. Therefore, on behalf of the government, I would like to work hard to ensure that the European Union puts further pressure on self-government to change practice. Let me stress again that, just as financial support for Palestinian prisoners and their families is not financed by Danish aid crowns, it is not financed by EU funds either. Finally, I would like to return to my introduction. As I said, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution because we do not agree with the aim of stopping the practice of self-government, because we are; however, the means are too one-sided and drastic in relation to the overall picture of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, plus the ratio of how we allocate the funds. Danish policy in relation to the conflict is to engage with balance • a balance that takes its very clear starting point in EU policy, because the EU gives Denmark a European voice, so the weight will be somewhat greater than if Denmark pursued its own policy in this area, and because this pan-European voice means that in Denmark in general there can be great political support for an overall Danish Middle East policy. The government attaches great importance to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152427	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152429	I may have misunderstood the Minister, but I would like to try to clarify it. Is it true that the Minister said that Israel's security work on the West Bank is an advantage and that without it things could very easily escalate? If that is understood correctly, I would just like to ask whether it is not just as often that Israeli efforts on the West Bank are causing things to escalate because they are advancing quite violently in the middle of the night, and what do I know about young people who have basically just thrown a stone, or a family who have taken part in a demonstration or expressed a negative opinion on Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152511	What I said was that Israel and its autonomy today have extensive security cooperation and that without it the situation on the West Bank would develop in a very dangerous direction, including with serious consequences for Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152531	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152532	It was a little more subdued than I first heard, and it was good. For, of course, there is cooperation between Israel and self-government in certain contexts, but Israel's behaviour in itself is sometimes provocative. That is also what I heard the Minister indirectly say when he said that there is a difference in how terror is perceived.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152556	I think that was mostly a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152559	Then we have one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152603	Thank you to the Minister for some actually a little wise words. In fact, I am pleasantly surprised that we are not going to debate at first whether this phenomenon is taking place. I hear the Minister is clearly prepared to acknowledge that it does. I think that's fine. The Minister is also well aware that what is the problem here is the overpayment of services to families sentenced to terror, which in turn encourages us to continue. In fact, it is the industry that is best paid, you can say, and it will attract applicants if you have to put it that way, which helps to keep the conflict going. But there is just one small thing I think I want to put in place, and that is that the Minister returns to the fact that Danish money does not go to terror... they go to NGOs, etc. We can hope that that is true, but the fact is that the money comes from somewhere, and if it does not come from Denmark or from the rest of Europe, it probably comes from some of the other donors, because the autonomy is very much subsidised by foreign sponsors. So what I think is brilliant about this proposal is that they say: We're crippling your economy until you're prepared to renounce this kind of practice. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152726	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152726-2	To that I say that this is, of course, a point of view and I respect that one can have that view. I just do not agree that this is a wise way forward, nor will it be a way forward that will be in Israel's interest, because Israel has no interest in a collapse. This will lead to an increasing degree of extremism and very likely also to far more terrorist attacks: much more terrorism as a result of increasing extremism. That is why we need to weigh up some principles here, and the principle that will then become the common thread for the government, and as it is for EU countries, is that the money we donate must not go to the support of the purpose that we agree to be quite wrong: the worse terrorism you have committed, the greater the reward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152820	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152822	Thank you. However, the collapse that the Minister fears may come does not have to come, because 15 minutes after the whole world tells the Palestinians that we will stop the cash flows if they do not stop supporting terrorism, then self-government is in its right to say: OK, we have been on the wrong track. We're shutting down that practice. And then there won't be a collapse. Couldn't that be the other angle? I understand that the Minister has a concern, but the second scenario is just as conceivable, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152857	I have explained that it is not necessarily the case that there is a purely black and white answer to this. This is a dilemma, but I believe that the path proposed by the Danish People's Party is the wrong way to go. It is very likely to lead to a worsening situation, and thus to the opposite of what we want and what we have as our common objective, namely to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152918	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we will start the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313152935	Many Palestinians sit or have been in Israeli prisons. Some of them call the Israelis terrorists, while the Palestinians see them as freedom fighters or political prisoners. And many of them receive monthly payments from the Palestinian authorities, which the Israelis call blood money and the Palestinians call welfare benefits. This is, of course, unacceptable, as the Foreign Minister said, if Danish money goes towards the payment of terrorists, but according to the Foreign Minister, Denmark supports Palestinian self-government both directly with financial support and through a number of aid investments and projects. And the EU also supports self-government, but again, according to the Foreign Minister, the support given to the imprisoned Palestinians is not financed by Denmark, by the EU or by funds coming from Denmark or the EU. Then the question will be whether we should react further. And the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is a very potent response: stop all support for Palestinian self-government. See, the objective of the support we provide is first and foremost to promote a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, among other things. by helping the millions of Palestinians who live in harsh circumstances in the occupied Israeli territories. I believe that, wherever one is in the political spectrum, it is recognised that the Israeli-Palestine situation is extremely delicate, and the fact is that without external aid, Palestinian self-government would be unfavorable. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has stated that in 2016 total international financial support amounted to 15%. of the GNP of the self-governing government. The fact is that today the Palestinian economy is not self-sustaining. This means that the implementation of this resolution would probably lead to further human suffering, greater unrest, and, above all, provide the basis for extremism and thus an increased threat of terrorism not only in the Middle East but also here. And if there is anything that the migration challenges of recent years should have taught us, it is that decisions about how our support is organised potentially have a direct effect on conditions in this country, and that stopping the support could potentially be really, really harmful to Denmark too. Social democracy cannot support the resolution before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153224	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153229	Thank you. I am told that the Social Democratic Party is largely following the same line of argument as the Foreign Minister, and that is, of course, fine. However, I am thinking of the fact that, once again, the rapporteur seems to be looking only at the first part of what is being proposed, namely that of stopping aid, but not looking at the next part of the proposal, that is, unless it is demonstrated that the money is not going to support terrorism and so on. etc. In all other contexts, financial incentives are quite effective. I would like to hear again: why is the rapporteur so convinced that if we stop funding, self-government will say that they will have nothing to do with us at all, because they will not stop terrorist financing? I would like to say from the Danish People's Party that there is also a likelihood that self-government will say: we know that we are vulnerable and we cannot manage without outside money, perhaps we should put our weapons on the shelf and not call for terrorist financing in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153337	It was not a long speech I made, and yet the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party failed to listen all the way through. I'm sorry. Because I said that it would be a question of whether Denmark should react further. What is the problem with the proposal before us is that it is totally unproportional. Whether you apply economic sanctions or other sanctions, it is an extremely sensible principle to always ensure proportionality in what you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153406	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Nick Hækkerup and move on to mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153419	Thank you. There is no doubt that this is a very important issue, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, travels, not least in the light of the timing. It should not be a secret that the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs had a delegation both in Palestine and in the West Bank last week, where we also had the opportunity to dig into this issue a little. Let us just start the most important place: on the left side, it is totally out of line and something we are vertically opposed to when, in this way, the Palestinian Government's government gives support to the survivors of terrorists. Because terrorism must never be supported in one way or another. And we know what they are doing here, and that is why I am very pleased about what the Foreign Minister also mentioned, namely that the Danish Government has repeatedly taken this up, either directly or indirectly, via the EU circle. Because, as I said, we're vertically opposed to it. But why are we also vertically opposed to the proposal from the Danish People's Party? We are because we actually believe that it will be directly counterproductive to what we really want. We want there to be a more stable situation, not only for the West Bank but also for Israel. And if we remove the financial support for the Ramallah government in this way, it will not be much imagination to imagine that the government will fall in the course of, I was just saying days, but it may even be almost hours, and then you might be able to get something instead that is even worse, at least seen by the Danish People's Party, for example. a Hamas government, which I also think will be awful, or another radicalised group will take power. That is why, on the one hand, we are forced to play the political game, the diplomatic game that is about maintaining pressure, so that something like this does not happen, while on the other hand we are also forced to face the reality of real policy, and that is that the Ramallah Government is right now the moderate voice on the Palestinian side and that we certainly should not do what we can to subjugate it, because then we will have something that will be terrible. That is why it is, of course, a very delicate balancing act, but it is also a balancing exercise in relation to the rest of the Middle East, which is very significant for the way the situation is. To put it bluntly: we understand the point of view, we just feel that we can achieve it in other ways, namely through the diplomatic game, and that if we overreact, as I feel we will do in relation to the Danish People's Party's proposal, we will have unintended consequences, which will create more instability, and have some radicalised groups that neither of us wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153715	There is a brief comment or, in fact, two. First, it's from sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153720	Thank you. But then, for the third time here, I have to come up with the same question which I do not think I have had the answer to in the past. And that is so: why is it in the left's optics so inconceivable that this kind of pressure will work? We are very quick to reject it, and I think that is actually a little wrong, because it is certainly not unknown in history that harsh economic pressures tend to work. So what makes the rapporteur so sure that economic pressure will not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153757-2	Well that is a very good question, and my answer to that is that there is so much at stake for the Ramallah government that if it in the goose-eyes loses face on such a situation here, then I am not a second in doubt that it will at the same time fall. And then it's that we want to see Hamas instead. Then, of course, you can say: they will then also need money. No, because the problem is that Hamas is supported by both Iran and other countries, we have to say less positive golf countries and others from which they will be able to get the money. So Hamas will be able to stand and say: Well, it's just the weaklings in Ramallah; choose us instead, and we'll make sure we have the money in place. And that is why we will never be able to win such a money game because there will be enough money on the opposite side in the goose's eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153843	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153845	Well, if there's enough money, that's a good argument for stopping the support. However, I am aware that the Left and the Social Democratic Party and the Liberal Alliance are going to go hand in hand here and reject a proposal which may have an effect. What you want instead is to bet on what you have done in the past, that is to say what you have always done and what you have certainly shown not to work. The rapporteur must nevertheless acknowledge that this is a bit of a mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153913	I strongly disagree with that, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen started his second round by saying that if there is enough money on Hamas' side, then all we have to do is stop the support. For what is my whole point is that if we start to make life so miserable for the Ramallah government that only Hamas stands as the shining, good example for all Palestinians, well then we have done that all talk of two-state solutions, all talk of ensuring just one degree of stability is something we can forget about. Because then it is that we will have something that will go directly the opposite way. And that's why, as I said, we're trying to do this balancing act.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313153946	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. It was waved averted, and then we say thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154010	Thank you for the floor. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party will stop all Danish subsidies to an occupied people, namely the Palestinians, and they believe that the EU should do the same. The Palestinians have been occupied by Israel for 51 years in violation of all international law and stop subsidies to the country until Palestinian self-government and the PLO have suspended all forms of payment to people who have been convicted and imprisoned for committing what Israel calls terror. But what is terrorism in Israel's view? In Israel's view, young people who demonstrate or throw a stone at soldiers, terrorists, and a young girl who slaps a military person are terrorists. Israel has a very broad use of the concept of terror, except for their own actions. According to Israel, it is not terrorism when the Israeli army carries out systematic attacks, collective punishment and repression of a civilian population. In my view, this is a quite unacceptable and brutal form of state terrorism against civilians, and we should strongly reject it. I hear both the Minister, the Socialists and the Left do that. The fact that it is Israel's military court that has to decide who are terrorists makes this proposal quite inappropriate. The fact that this proposal focuses exclusively on one party as guilty of terrorism also makes the proposal inappropriate. An occupied people have the right to resist within the framework of the Geneva Convention, which Israel does not consider to include their occupation, and Palestinians are today one of the most patient people in the world. Israel systematically violates the rights of the civilian population in the Israeli-occupied parts of Palestine, in attacks on Gaza in 2008, 2009 and not least in 2014, in daily violations of the rights of prisoners, in daily or nightly incidents in the West Bank to arrest suspects, both adults and children, women and men, and collective punishments are also contrary to the Geneva Convention. And that is my third criticism of this motion for a resolution. Although the Palestinians are deprived of the opportunity to create a life in their own country on the West Bank and in East Jerusalem and have to live with nearly 700,000 settlers, even if they are deprived of their access to clean water, they have their houses destroyed, they have to apply for permission to build a dwelling, and usually they are refused permission to enter and leave the West Bank and Gaza, and usually they are refused, regardless of the purpose of the journey, even if all this happens, only a small number of rebellions against those who have occupied their country. The Palestinians are also the world's most imprisoned people; in total, 700,000 Palestinians have been in prison for a short or long time, often without being put before a judge, but only administratively detained for years. Right now, 6,500 Palestinians are in prison, many of them have been tortured, and some 300 of them are children between the ages of 12 and 18. If the Danish Parliament adopts this proposal, we will stand unilaterally on the side of the United States and Israel and show the Palestinians that they stand alone and that enough sympathy on their part has not restored them an inch of their own land. It will create frustration and provide a breeding ground for more violence. This will be a collective punishment of women and children, in particular, who are now going to lose their compensation for the loss of their breadwinner, father, husband or brother. That should be our common goal, rather than promoting a peace debate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Finally, there is President Trump of the United States who, like a dog in a game of cones, is trying to interfere by recognising Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, where the United States Embassy is to be opened on precisely Nakba Day, that is to say disaster day, which marks Israel's expulsion of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians. Does Denmark really want to adopt this confrontational and inhumane line, which will certainly not lead to peace? I hope not. There is a need for strong international forces to take the lead in a peace process with content. Why not Denmark, why not the Nordic countries, why not Europe and why not now? The Enhedslisten cannot support DF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154505	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154509	Thank you. I would say that it is not entirely surprising to me that the Enhedslisten is not entirely enthusiastic about this proposal. The one-sided bully of the Enhedslisten against Israel and now also Trump may not surprise me either. But I must confess that I am a little surprised that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, at least not as far as I could hear, refers in one word to the terror that is actually taking place on the part of the Palestinians. I might have expected some sort of balancing, a soft condemnation of violence in general. But now all I hear is criticism of how Israel and Trump etc. Behaving. Then I have to put it fully in place: does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that they attack with fruit knives and bread knives and guns and grenades, attacks on buses and civilians with cars, and what else they find to use as weapons of attack on the Palestinian side, is within the framework of a legitimate what was called it? Is that really Enhedslisten's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154613	Any attack on civilians and the murder of civilians is unacceptable. I am opposed to that. But any people possessed by a military force have the right to resist and defend themselves. I will stick to that from now on until we abolish the Geneva Convention. It has just been designed to ensure that civilians have rights against quite cynical an occupying power. What this proposal does not consider at all is that there is a possessor and an obsessed people. I stand on the side of the occupied in such a situation as this one and believe that the occupiers have the main responsibility for creating a proper situation in which one can live together peacefully and safely. Israel does not live up to that. That's why my main charge is against the strong party to this, and it's the possessors. That is, of course, why it seems so provocative to the Danish People's Party. But that must be the way we have to look at things if we are to find a solution. We cannot simply say that it is the occupied who are responsible for the solution. We'll never get anywhere with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154716	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154717	Thank you. So I would just like it to be made quite clear: does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur believe that the attacks by the Palestinians against Israeli soldiers, against Israeli policemen and Israeli civilians are conducive to the peace process? Is it conducive to the Palestinians and Israelis finding a solution at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154741	Violence is never conducive. But I would remind you that in 1940-45 we also had people who in Denmark called the resistance people terrorists. We had some who said in this Chamber that it was not conducive for resistance workers to blow up railway bridges and attack German soldiers. It wasn't conducive. Afterwards, of course, Things changed attitude and said they were our heroes; they held a resistance to our possessors. If you can't see that this is exactly the same situation they are in here, then you can't tell the difference between possessors and possessed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154817	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313154830	Thank you. With proposal B 55, the proposers are instructing the government to suspend financial support for Palestinian self-government unless it can demonstrate that Palestinian self-government and the PLO have suspended payment to people convicted and imprisoned for committing terrorism. It is clear to everyone that all forms of terrorism and the encouragement of terrorism must be combated regardless of the circumstances and whoever may be involved in the matter. It is also clear that the system of incentives must be rejected, to put it now in economist language, which raises the reward for terror, in relation to the seriousness of the acts involved. But do the serious problems, as the Danish People's Party's proposal points out, mean that the funds allocated are also the best possible ones? The aid granted to Palestine by the Danish side is primarily through multilateral organisations and goes for earmarked purposes, which are recognised by the Danish Government. The way in which funds are used is monitored so that they do not go for purposes other than those for which they are allocated. So when I do not think it is a good idea to dismantle the aid in the way described by the Danish People's Party, it is because in Denmark too we have an interest in the Palestinian autonomy working and not breaking down, as several have pointed out. If that happens, it will have as its consequence that the two-state solution that we support will be impossible and could lead to a destabilisation or further destabilisation of the region, which will have incalculable consequences. So I think it is a very good course that the government has agreed that we are pushing for the autonomy to give up having its practice that rewards serious terrorist attacks, but that the method should be very much a combined pressure from the European Union. So we in the Liberal Alliance recognise the problem that is being described and that exists and is serious, but since the solution is not the best, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155124	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155128	Thank you. I was just as happy at the beginning when I learned that the rapporteur had actually read the full text of what the Danish People's Party is actually proposing with this resolution. But then my enthusiasm was dampened a little further, because I really had hoped that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance would perhaps have a better understanding of what the economic factors really mean. For economic factors are, of course, something that the Liberal Alliance, in many other political circumstances, fully agrees with, is quite important. Yet the rapporteur then comes to the conclusion that precisely when it comes to pressing the Palestinians to move in a more peaceful direction, the economy is not the way forward. Then I would like to hear: what is the way forward? If it is not the economy, what could one imagine could push the Palestinians to where they say that they are giving up violence and that they are putting their weapons on the shelf?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155231	I think we need to pay close attention to the analysis which Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, in other words, in addition to having the current government in Ramallah, has Hamas, which has quite different sources of funding than we are dealing with here. In relation to the overall political objectives that we have in Denmark and in the European Union, it is therefore the government of Ramallah that we need to support, because if it is not there and Hamas is going to be replaced, then it is at least the case that all the possibilities for a two-state solution fade away. That is why I believe that the diplomatic pressure and diplomatic talks that are being held behind closed doors and not in front of the world press are what can lead to results.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155326	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Henrik Dahl. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155334	Thank you. After all, this proposal could be discussed on the basis of some definition of how Israel punishes terrorism and what exactly it is for violations they believe to be terrorism. But I really think that we should start by saying that the proposers here want us to copy a proposal from the United States. I do not think that American foreign policy is exactly what we should spend the most time copying here in the Folketing, especially these days and at the present time. On the contrary, I believe that we need to look at how we can actually help and support Palestine and help and support the peace negotiations that have come to a halt. This is not done by going in this way and wanting to push Palestinian self-government even more economically, while at the same time not exactly pushing Israel economically, at all. What we have to bear in mind is what is happening in the West Bank; what is happening in Palestine is that there are attacks on civilians, that there are massive and constant violations of human rights. And yes, there are demolitions of some of the development projects that we do from Denmark and from the European Union, with solar cells, etc. What we should be discussing is how we actually support the fact that there is a people who can live in Palestine and how we support a strong civil society in Palestine. At the same time, of course, we must have the dialogue that we must have with PA and criticise them for what they should be criticised for. But standing here in the Folketing and copying the American foreign policy when it comes to Palestine is the completely wrong way to go and close to what I would describe as crazy in the situation we are seeing right now. So I can clearly say that the alternative does not support this proposal. On the contrary, we should be discussing how we support a civil society, how we support Palestine, as it is they who are possessed. Finally, I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155608	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155611	I would like to thank you for the reference to the United States, because I fully agree that it looks almost like a whole campaign that has been launched. In this context, I would add that when we visited the Knesset with the Committee on Foreign Affairs last week, the Israelis confirmed that they disagreed with the US freezing of money for UN refugee work, with the argument that our minister has also used today, namely that it could escalate the situation in refugee camps and thus create a much more unstable situation. That is why they have distanced themselves from it. I was even confirmed yesterday by Israel's ambassador to Denmark. He says they disagree with the United States on this issue and that it's too dangerous to do this. I believe that this proposal will have exactly the same effect, because you take some money away from some people who are really having a hard time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155702	That's exactly what we're seeing with this proposal. It is, of course, a copy of a policy from a country which at the moment. does not care what happens in the Middle East, including in the case of refugees and embassies etc. This does not help to create a peaceful situation. On the contrary, it helps to escalate the conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155720	Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155720-2	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Again, I think I hear a rapporteur who has a focus that goes in a different direction than what was intended by this motion for a resolution, so I would just like to hear very briefly about the position of this rapporteur and ask whether it is not considered that the Palestinians have a degree of responsibility for a seemingly insoluble conflict, by resorting to arms, by resorting to terror against policemen, soldiers and civilians.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155800-2	Well, it is clear that as rapporteur for the Alternative, I am focusing on what I think is right in this resolution, and that is what I have put forward. Do the Palestinians have a part to play in this? Yes, it is always two that need to be done to resolve a conflict, and here it is actually more, as there are a number of other countries involved. Sir. Christian Juhl also mentioned the United States. There's a lot of people involved in finding a solution to this. But we just have to look at who's got the upper hand. It's Israel. Who has occupied another area? It's Israel. Who is it that daily violates human rights when it comes to the civilian population in Palestine, the West Bank and Gaza? It's Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155837	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155841	Are the Palestinians responsible for the conflict? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155848	As I said in my previous reply to the questioner, yes to the fact that there are more people involved in resolving a conflict, but the main thing here is that Israel also assumes the responsibility of being an occupying power. And that means living up to some very special things and not having this still insulting behaviour towards the civilian population in Palestine.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155923	I think that was the last to comment briefly on the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313155930	Thank you. Let me make it quite clear that the Palestinian practice of paying services to terrorists is totally reprehensible. Here I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that this practice must be stopped. As mentioned in the proposal, the United States is dealing with a bill designed to suspend all US support for Palestinian self-government. However, there is a significant difference between the American and Danish cases: Denmark does not provide budget support for Palestinian self-government. The Danish support crowns are all earmarked for development purposes through multilateral organisations which are subject to thorough control. Not all support goes to waste, there are actually many success stories • I have experienced that myself where Denmark is involved in municipal mergers, helping to develop some of the things that we in Denmark are really good at, and that is the cooperative idea. So there are, in fact, some positive things happening in the Palestinian territories, which must also be emphasised. The purpose of Danish support to developing countries is to combat poverty and promote stability and development. We must live up to that responsibility. Palestine is one of the areas most supported per year. It is also important that the European Parliament should be given the opportunity to express its opinion on this matter. Denmark and the EU have a Middle East policy. Denmark supports a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine, and the support of a Palestinian state is part of that solution. Israel also has an interest in ensuring that Palestinian autonomy does not collapse. That is why we reject the proposal from the Danish People's Party. I fully agree with the Danish People's Party in the intention contained in the proposal, but I am afraid that the consequences of implementing the proposal are not consistent with the intentions. I see the study that has just been made of various projects as a sort of yellow card. I can't let that happen again. Here I would like to take this opportunity to stress that maximum pressure must be put on Palestinian self-government to change the practice of taking former terrorists into the heat. It is the will for peace that must dominate. So I agree with the intentions, but I disagree that that is what needs to be done here and now. But if the practice does not change, we must look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160245	Thank you. There is one brief comment, so the rapporteur must remain on the floor. It's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. It doesn't matter). Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160311	Thank you. It is always a bit of a challenge to stand and give a speech which one has written down in the cue, in the belief that one should be the first to make a speech. Now I'm the last one, so I'm gonna have to try to plug it in. And I can do that on the basis of the somewhat depressing words I have heard from the rapporteurs around here today. In other words, if I were to sum up a little, I would say that we agree that it is not entirely between the Israelis and the Palestinians and that it is also too wrong and that something needs to be done, but that what is then proposed here is quite wrong for a number of reasons. I stand back and think back to the question I put to one of the rapporteurs about what is going to be done. Will we continue to do what we have always done, which has not proved to be very effective? It's still a little off in the dark. I am also thinking of one thing, which is that we have an ambition to save the world and make Israel a friendly place to be for everyone, both Israelis and Palestinians, and that everything is going to be happiness down there. It is an ambition one can have, and it is of course a little big for a small Danish Parliament. But another thing that comes to mind is a little more earthy. Most of us are development rapporteurs, and we are dealing with a budget that is a little contentious, and in recent years I think it has been since 2010 that support for development aid has fallen. After all, many people think that is serious. And what is the reason for this? Well, it could be a lot of things. It can be due to bad stories about fraud. It may also be due to bad stories about cases where development aid has no effect. When we look at aid to the Palestinians over a number of years, we have to say that both fraud and lack of results have been an unknown phenomenon. Against this background, I believe that we are obliged, also as responsible for Danish taxpayers' money, to relate to what we are actually spending this money on. Perhaps I think that, in relation to the Palestinian conflict, it has proved to be uphill, to put it mildly. Perhaps it was time for the money to be spent elsewhere that was more obvious, not least because the Palestinians are the most supported people in the world, as far as I know. I had noted a whole series of good things. In fact, I had expected a major debate on whether the Palestinians had actually been caught with their fingers in the cookie box in order to support this terror, but I am so happy about that, as I also mentioned to the Minister, was not the case. I would just like to conclude by saying calmly that I hope that this proposal will be considered and reviewed, because it is not a proposal that has been put forward for fun and fun. It has been put forward because we believe that economic thumb screws on the Palestinians are the only way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160615	There is one person who has a brief comment, and if not, it may be a mistake, but at least I will give the floor to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160623	It's certainly not a mistake. It is of course interesting that DF thinks that we should answer very specific questions, and then when we try to do so, DF refuses to answer the core question itself. It is almost unnecessary to ask Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, if it is not the occupation that is the main problem; if it is not the settlements in the West Bank that are the main problem in the conflict down there; if that is not what we should focus on; and if there is no difference between an occupying and an occupied. I have asked the questions innumerable times to DF, but never received an answer. Maybe I'll get it today. And can the rapporteur not confirm that when we were sitting before the PA's chief adviser in Ramallah, he said that if there is donor support that has gone to terrorists, I would like to know, because it should not go to that, and I would like to ask Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen to go home and ask his government to notify the embassy of specific cases, and then we will investigate it and stop the money? I would also like confirmation of that, because that was precisely the conclusion of the meeting we had with the PA and PLO representatives when we were travelling there last week.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160738	Well, in order to start chronologically from behind, I have to say that I cannot actually confirm that. Because when I asked the person in question quite specifically what he thought about these attacks against Israeli officials, and I failed to refer to it as terrorism because I thought it would create a bad atmosphere, he replied that he knew nothing about it at all, he had not heard of it before he did not have it that way. On the question of whether Israel is a possessor or what the question was, I have to say that there are two sides; that there is growing suspicion; that there are weapons on both sides. I think that's what I'm gonna deal with. It is not a question of aid money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160834	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160836	That's a clear speech. You will not recognise that Israel is a possessor of this matter. I have to take note of that. It says that the Danish People's Party sees it as being responsible for the problem by the occupied people. However, it is an atypical approach to an international conflict. Then I would like to ask you something else that we also heard down there, and that is precisely what I mentioned earlier, namely that Israel recommends that the United States should not stop subsidies for refugees. Is it not a collective punishment and a direct attack on the Geneva Convention if it is said that all Palestinians must be punished if a single individual or 100 individuals have attacked soldiers from Israel?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160926	I do not think this is a collective punishment. What we want from this proposal by the Danish People's Party is for the Palestinian authorities to renounce the use of weapons, to put their weapons on the shelf and to say: that is not the way forward, it does not contribute to peace, it does not contribute to anything good at all, that we support terrorism by supporting the survivors. That is what is at the heart of this proposal, and I must confess that I still believe that, for one reason or another, when one side puts the weapons on the shelf, it may be that the other side also lowers its shoulders a little and helps to create a climate in which a more peaceful and more long-term solution may be more likely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313160954	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more entries for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161029	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161108	Thank you. The bill translates parts of the settlement • Security about the housing tax • which the government entered into together with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left in May last year. We think it is very positive that a broad agreement could be reached on first a new property assessment system and since future housing taxation. The agreement generally achieves a predictability and security for the property owners in relation to their housing tax. After all, for a number of years there have been wrong property assessments, and the citizens who have paid too much in due cause have their money paid back. It is typically outside the largest cities, that will be the case. At the same time, in the future, we will have a situation where there will be more right-wing assessments with a continuous adjustment of tax to development, but for individual homeowners there will be a certainty that increases in value should not force them from their homes. Fortunately, the agreement ended far from the government's starting point, and for example. there is still a progression in housing taxation, just as we have a top tax in the personal tax. So in many ways we were satisfied with the agreement that was made. It is comprehensive and requires more legislative proposals in order to be implemented. Some are in the process of being drafted, and the bill here then implements some of the elements of the overall housing tax agreement. Among other things, we agreed that a general freezing system should be established for increases in the ground debt during the period from 2018 to 2020. The frozen amounts must be paid only when you sell the property, and when you typically want to see a gain on top of an increase in value. This means that you know your basic guilt in the future. The model drawn up for the first few years before moving to a more permanent freezing system is a municipal model based on loans and in which we would like to try again, if it is not possible to give the same freedom of choice to pay your possibly rising tax immediately, instead of it being frozen. I actually think there are many who, if they can get to it, want to have the experience of being able to respond to each one's current and not having such a hump hanging, which one can so well choose to pay, I am on board when you move to the new, state system from 2020 onwards, but in the meantime, so to speak, taking out loans. And I guess some people would rather not if they could be. So we think we should test once again whether this loan model, without any freedom of choice, should be implemented, but of course we continue to support the fact that there is only a municipal freezing system between 2018 and 2020, and then the state and more permanent freezing model comes with the freedom of choice that must also follow there. According to the current rules, people cannot borrow money to pay housing taxes and at the same time receive housing subsidies. This amends the bill so that people who are receiving a social pension today and who are getting a municipal loan to pay property tax under current rules can in future also be covered by the general freezing regulation. The proposal also introduces the agreed precautionary principle so that the tax base of the property tax is set at 80%. of the assessment that is being made. Although the new system can take into account many things and get a much better data base to operate on, there will never be an accurate, objective value for a home. And as a precautionary principle in order to avoid overtaxation of citizens and also to provide a guarantee that you do not feel a need to complain and test the assessment in so many cases, then this 20 per cent discount is granted on the assessment before you have to pay tax. In relation to the implementation itself, the draft law also addresses the delay in the basic data programme which has arisen and which we have dealt with in a few rounds in the Committee on Finance. The implementation of the basic data programme part-tape 1 is therefore postponed for 12 months. The Social Democratic Party has had the Minister in consultation on this matter and has been informed in the Finance Committee that it will not delay the overall roll-out of the new property assessment system. It is pointed out that there are uncertainties but informs the Finance Committee that there will be no delay in view of the change in the schedule for the roll-out of the basic data programme. Now we are supposed to be adopting here in the Folketing before so long that such a phase-in phase-in is in order. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to confirm in the legislative process here the message or announcement given in the Committee on Finance that the original timetable will be kept. I have tried to get through some of the essential elements of the bill and, as has been shown, the Social Democrats think that it is a good agreement that has been made on the future of housing taxation, and we are also looking forward to voting in favour of the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161615	There is one with a brief comment. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161619	It is a more general comment, a more general issue in relation to the housing tax agreement. It's because of that, sir. Jesper Petersen said that the final agreement was less far-reaching than the government proposed. But there is at least one point where what the housing agreement has ended up with is also less far-reaching than what the Social Democratic Party itself put forward. It was when the Social Democratic Party presented the Social Democracy's presentation for the negotiations on the government's 2025 plan in 2016.Trust in Denmark it was called. The Social Democratic Party proposed that 30 billion be set aside. kr. up to 2025 to give tax rebates to the landowners, which only amounted to 20 billion. kr. in the final housing contract. What is the rapporteur's comment on this, in relation to the fact that it should be less far-reaching, but also in relation to the fact that it is money that is taken from the room for manoeuvre, which should actually have been used to improve our common welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161721	The money that Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten's rapporteur, speaks of this, is, after all, a possible revenue for the state that would have arisen if the previous housing tax stop had been stopped abruptly by the end of 2020. I would actually say that it is a rather theoretical consideration that it would ever get a majority in the Folketing, because it would mean some rather violent changes for the homeowners, for which there was no majority in the Folketing. A solution has now been found which was less costly than what was otherwise the alternative, which provides security for the homeowners, a certainty of what they have to pay, but which therefore has a smaller feature on the room than if the previous housing tax stop had continued. And we think it is so good that we have been able to make that agreement widely in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161827	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161830	It is true that a political majority in the Folketing has chosen to continue the housing tax rebates after they should have actually expired, thus taking the money from the room which could have been spent on welfare. But what I specifically asked about was that when the final housing contract up to 2025 is to be spent 20 billion. kr. and the Social Democratic Party had originally proposed 30 billion. kr., it certainly goes less far on that front. That is really what I was asking about. I just want to know if the rapporteur can confirm and hear what the rapporteur's comment on it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161906	It is a simple statement to make it, as Mr. Rune Lund's doing. If we had continued with the so far housing tax freeze, which is the basis of the figure that is being presented, it would have had a higher price than what we have found. I think it is a good deal that has been made, and it doesn't matter to me that it's also cheaper compared to the draw on the room than what else was the option. I think, as I have said, that we have found a good broad housing agreement here and would not think it wise to do as Enhedslisten seems to suggest, that is to say, with one cut to change very basic housing taxation and so also to do so that you might get some more money in the Treasury, but would also hit many ordinary homeowners on their household economy and, in many cases, their ability to live in the housing they have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313161958	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. So the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162007	Thank you. In fact, I think that the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is right. Jesper Petersen, did so well to explain what the proposal is, but we can give such a brief summary. What this is about is making some temporary freezings of increases in the ground debt, and that is what we are doing here from 2018 to 2020. And then there is a precautionary principle in relation to the new tax, i.e. property tax, etc., where it is actually said that the tax base is only 80%. of the value that is being set, and it is simply for it to benefit the landowners. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we are part of the agreement. In fact, we think it is very positive, because it is quite essential that people, when they go out and buy a house, also know roughly what costs they have. Therefore, such a fictional thing, which homeowners often consider a valuation of their property, can at least prevent young people from going out and going into debt when they do not know their expenses. It's a risk you take. Of course, that is also sometimes a win, but it depends a little on where in the country you live. In the Danish People's Party we actually think it is really, really good. I do not think I have so much more to say about it than we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162130	Thank you. There is just one brief comment, and that is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162136	I would like to ask you about the precautionary principle. For Mrs Pia Adelsteen does not agree that when a precautionary principle is applied, it should be based only on 80%. If you have a large villa of perhaps 15-20 million, you earn a profit. kr., much more on it than if you have an ordinary parcel house for perhaps 1 million. kr. or 1,5 million kr. somewhere outside the major cities of Denmark? And is it particularly social, is it a particularly sensible distribution policy to pursue?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162215	I just want to say that I do not understand the Enhedslisten's position on such issues at all. It's kind of like saying that if we all get the tax rate down by 20%, it's the rich that wins the most. Of course it is in crowns and ears, but it is also they who pay the most. It is the case in our entire tax system that, if you make the most money, you pay the most. But it is clear that when we reduce a percentage, it is also those who pay the most that save the most. Well, that's the way it is. And even if it's so socially unfair, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162247	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162249	So if you have a villa of 15 million... kr. and get a tax discount on it and it gives much more in crowns and ears than if you have a regular parcel house for 1 million. kr. or 1,5 million kr., where you get significantly less, it's not socially wrong that I have to understand it. Then I have another question about operating with a precautionary principle at all when we are at the same time trying to develop a basic data programme. How does the rapporteur actually feel about this? I actually feel that we need to have some data that is right and that is a solid foundation to stand on, and then we tax on it. But to make some rules which, as a starting point, say that the basic data we are working on are wrong, and then you put in such a buffer, a tax rebate, as a principle, is it not a strange and, by the way, an antisocial way of managing the state's finances?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162338	On the first question, I would like to say quickly that no, I do not think it is socially wrong that people who have a villa, they have paid 15 million. kr. For and maybe sitting with a property tax of DKK 100,000. a year, now gets a discount that says maybe 2,000 kroner. less a year, where those who pay only 10,000 kr. or 7,000 kroner. a year, get a discount called 200 kroner. a year. I don't think that's socially wrong. That is the difference in our society, but it has nothing to do with being socially unequal in any way or anything. I don't think it's wrong. That's one thing. The other thing is compared to the fact that basic data is wrong. That is actually how we operate in many areas of policy. There is nothing that is the complete truth. Nothing does anything perfect. And when you have some basics that you have to make some valuation out of, then I think that this precautionary principle benefits the citizens because it is said that we may have misjudged, because you cannot make a precise assessment everywhere in the country. So if we judge a little wrong, it should benefit the citizen, and then it is the citizen who gets a tax rebate, it is not the state that gets some extra money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162445	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments on this and we will continue in the rapporteur's line. It's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162453	Thank you. With this bill, we translate part of the settlement on the security of the housing tax, which we concluded on 2 May 2017 with the government parties, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. It was a broad settlement, which I think is very good, because when we talk about people's housing tax, it is important that there is security for many years to come too, and we achieve that with a broad agreement. The old property valuation system wasn't fair. As early as August 2013, the National Audit Office said that this property assessment system is not working. This was not corrected by the then Socialist-led government, and that is why it has been a task for us, as soon as we came to power, to get it right. However, we have to recognise that when we get the property assessments right, we run the risk of people being taxed out of their homes because assessments are rising massively in some places. That is why we came up with a proposal to reduce the property tax rate, that is to say, the one and the other, namely the property value tax and the land tax. It was simply because we do not have a desire to tax people out of their homes. There must be a rightful basis. One of the places where you would especially experience that it would be really difficult to stay would be in the metropolitan area. So in order to prevent people from being taxed out of their homes, we have therefore had to reduce the rate. This bill deals, first and foremost, with the freezing of increases in the ground debt until 2020. This is due to the fact that the land is not covered by the tax freeze in crowns and ears, but in the rate. So when the value of the land increases, the tax rate increases in kroner and ear too. It has been quite violent in the metropolitan area in some places, and also elsewhere, where there have been sharp increases in value, and therefore we have now put forward with this bill a freezing order in which the municipalities must grant an interest-free loan to the landowners so that they are not taxed out of their homes. In addition, we are introducing the precautionary principle, which has already been mentioned several times. It is a precautionary principle that only 80% of people are taxed. of the property assessment. This is because, although we have created a property assessment system which we believe is far better than what has been in the past, we will never be able to achieve 100% certainty. Our assessment is that there is an uncertainty of perhaps about 20%. We would rather give the citizens the benefit of the doubt and say that then everyone gets a discount, you can say, on what they are taxed, by 20%, so we are sure that they are not taxed too much. We think it is quite essential to ensure that this benefits the citizens. In addition, with the bill, we can partially implement the property part of the basic data programme. We think it's very important that we give this security to the Danes, because a house is also a property, not just an investment, it's a home, it's something you live in. And that's why it's important that you can count on staying. So for us it is very important that we make some security for the Danes. Against this background, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162811	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, sir. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313162824	Thank you. A tax discount of 20 billion. kr. Until 2025, what the government, together with the Social Democracy, the Radical and the Danish People's Party, has chosen to give to the landowners. It is otherwise money that could have been spent on more educators in kindergartens, more nurses in hospitals and more sosu assistants in home care. The money's been snatched from the so-called room for manoeuvre. It's money that, among other things. is provided by making a large number of deteriorations for people on cash benefits, early retirement and cash benefits. The reform parties responsible for the deterioration apologized for their so-called reforms, because they had to be able to afford welfare. Now we know that a lot of that money should instead go to the landowners. It's really a promise, so it's got something going on. People with millionaires are the ones who score the most on the deal. For example: The 20 per cent precautionary principle means that the villa owner in North Zealand with a villa of 15 million. kr. can draw 3 million. kr. from, while a homeowner in Næstved with a house of 1 million. kr. can draw 200,000 kroner. from. I must admit that I do not really understand how the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party can agree to such an agreement. It's not all bad compared to the overall housing agreement. The freezing model is good. We also support this on the part of the Enhedslisten. It means that people are not taxed out of their homes with current housing taxes. The thoughts we have had on Enhedslisten for many years are a good way of getting away from the fact that housing taxes on the property value tax should be an exit tax where you pay tax on what you have earned on your property when it is sold. We believe, however, that it should be possible to postpone this tax if you buy a new dwelling, otherwise it will lock down the housing market. This is very important to us. Instead of the agreed housing agreement, we believe from the Enhedslisten side that we should have made an agreement where the tax freeze on the property value tax and the increase limitation on the land debt were phased out over a number of years. We can see how much the tax freeze on the property value tax and the rise limit on the land tax actually costs our society and the common fund every year. In an answer to a question that I put to the Minister of Taxation, we have obtained figures which show that the reduction in the increase compared to the ground debt meant less revenue for the Treasury of 4.4 billion. kr. in 2015, and that the lower income resulting from the tax freeze on the property value tax was 6.8 billion. kr. in 2015. We are therefore talking about an annual reduction of 11 billion. kr. as a result of the tax freeze. It is money that could benefit the common fund if you made a gentle phasing out of the tax freeze. Such abolition, such a phasing-out combined with a freezing model would both provide security for homeowners and would provide a fairer housing tax system. Because with such a system we would ensure that people would not be taxed out of their homes with current taxes, and at the same time there would be a fairer taxation of the social value-added increase in buildings. In relation to the specific legislative proposal, L 171, we are, in this way, in favour of a municipal freezing system. As far as the precautionary principle is concerned, we have major problems with it, both in terms of the distribution profile and also in relation to the fact that there is something fundamentally strange in saying that we are working on collecting proper data, which is the basis for the rules that lie there, but yet we are saying that we are not going to spend enough money or put enough effort into getting accurate enough data, so now we are creating such a small buffer with which to give a tax rebate. Basically, it is a deeply irresponsible way of setting up a housing tax system. One might wonder how much extra money it would cost to collect more solid data which could form the basis for housing taxation, rather than year after year, to grant a billion rebate to the homeowners in the form of a precautionary principle. It is discounts which in crowns and ears primarily benefit those who have the largest houses. The last two things in the bill, which are about the multi-stage implementation of the basic data programme and individual housing support, are two proposals that we are comfortable with. But overall, we will not be able to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163306	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163310	Thank you. I couldn't help thinking about what Enhedslisten had in mind in connection with this, that instead of doing what you are doing now, they say: Well when you sell your house, you have to pay tax on the profits you have from the dwelling. Because you must have thought about that. So I have such a bit of pragmatic and practical questions for that idea. If that means that when you buy a house, you have to buy a house, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Does this mean that the costs of maintaining the house over the years you have it must be deducted? How do you make this happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163357	It is true that, in relation to the property value tax, we imagine that, to the extent that it is possible without loss of revenue, an exit tax will be made. In this respect we certainly also see that you look at what improvements have been made on the house and that you can also subtract it in this way. It would be logical to make such a scheme. What is important to say here is that, with the model that I am outlining here, we ensure fair taxation of the values of society, while at the same time providing the security for the homeowners that they can stay in the house they have bought. It will be a fairer model than a model in which you continue to spend a lot of community money on tax discounts for the homeowners, when that money instead could have been spent on welfare. I also think that the Danish People's Party needs to answer how it is reasonable that money that should have been spent for welfare is spent on tax rebates. It cannot be something that benefits ordinary people, that welfare in this way does not get the money that welfare so badly needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163504	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163506	But now the rapporteur has had the opportunity to ask me questions, so we are now doing it the other way round. And I just need to hear something. For me, it is just so obvious that it is not at all felt that the free forces of the market have any effect whatsoever. Well, the reason why it costs a fortune to live in Copenhagen is that there are tons of people who apparently want to live in Copenhagen, whereas the houses are very, very cheap in Tønder, because there are not many who want to live there. You can try to equalize that somehow or do something about it. But I simply do not understand that we do not recognise that there are market forces and that this is what actually makes prices change. Or does Enhedslisten want everything to cost the same, no matter where it is in the country? Then I have a question about the so-called society-created increase in value: what on earth does that mean? Well, when my house rises in value, it's normal because I've done something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163602	After all, Mrs Pia Adelsteen's house is also increasing in value because the housing market is developing in a certain way, which is, of course, linked to how society as such develops and also how the economy develops. That is why it is not all the increase in value in Mrs Pia Adelsteen's house, which is due to what Mrs Pia Adelsteen may have done to her house. In relation to the exact housing taxes, it is about the fact that if we look at such things as the ground debt and the lack of it, what should we say, the collection of the ground debt that has been due to the limitation of the increase on the ground debt, you can see that, and that is also what the answers from the Ministry of Taxation say, that the lower tax has been directly capitalised at higher house prices. In other words, the fact that taxation is too low has led to a corresponding increase in house prices. And that is one of the things that happens; if you have too low taxation, then it actually results in some higher house prices. Just so to be clear: when questions are asked from the Chamber, it is a short comment, so it is not a question like that; it is a debate we have here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163704	That is quite correct, but it is called short remarks, and sometimes we call the short question. It comes out on one in this procedure. However, there is in fact one more to either a brief comment or a question, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163719	Thank you. I should also like to take this opportunity to speak. Now I was so inspired by the debate here. I heard the rapporteur say that what we would like to do is to change the property value tax so that the values created by society can be obtained. However, the way the tax system has been built up means that it is the reason why the values created by society are taxed, so to speak, and the property value tax taxes the growth that is because you change something in the house, so to speak it gets better done, or because it is falling or something else. And that's the idea of having the two taxes against each other. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur's position: instead of using the groundwork, as now, to tax the values created by society, is it intended to do so in such a way that it is done through the property value tax? And how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163803	The land in our country, Denmark, is our land, as we are citizens of Denmark. We regard the land liability as the rent or tax paid for having ownership of a particular piece of land. That's where you pay money to the community. That is why we think that the reason for this is a fair tax, and in economic terms it is also a very reasonable tax. It makes sense because, for example, if the reason for this is to be found, it makes sense. It will be capitalised immediately at higher basic prices. Compared to the increase in housing prices, it is about supply and demand, that is, what you can sell your accommodation to, and it is not just something that is determined by whether you have renovated your bathroom. This has something to do with the housing market as such. It has to be said that no matter how much Mrs Louise Schack Elholm has renovated her bathroom at home, the price of the house to be sold will not be determined by it alone. That is our approach to that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163915	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313163916	But what is being proposed here is maintaining the taxation of a value-added increase in society. On the other hand, there is the property value of your house, where there is no social part, because it lies in the ground debt. That is the way to achieve fair taxation, namely by taxing both. After all, the reason why you also tax the dwelling is that there must be a similarity in the return on investment tax, whether you tax capital or you invest in your dwelling. That is the equality one is trying to create. What you are up to is that it must be less attractive to invest in your home than to invest in shares. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164002	I would say that we are very, very aware of this link, and we will also keep a close eye on the government, in relation to whether the tax on non-work income should now be reduced. For the percentages in relation to the housing tax to be paid when the housing agreement enters into force will be lower than they are today. So I can at least confirm that part. However, the model we are proposing will mean that all homeowners will have the opportunity to stay and we would like to introduce a freezing principle. We want to make an exit tax like on the entire property value tax, if possible, but otherwise like on parts of it, combined with a phasing out of the tax freeze, which in 2015 cost 11 billion. kr. So it is not done with the fact that we will not spend the 20 billion. kr. extra so to speak. Just until 2020, and already today, we can see that a great many billions of dollars are being spent in this area, and that is money that could be spent more sensibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164058	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164108	Thank you. As other rapporteurs have said, this proposal introduces parts of the housing tax agreement: the precautionary principle and the temporary freeze. The freezing means that you have to pay the same ground as you are doing now until the new housing tax system comes into force. Any increase in the ground debt will be frozen as an interest-free loan. Some people have been complaining about this type of forced savings, and I can understand that, but, as I am told, it has not been possible to set up a system until the agreement enters into force, which has enabled people to pay for any increase now and here. The precautionary principle recognises that it is impossible to value a property with very high precision. A selling price will always be marked by great uncertainty and there is not one objective price for a property. The circumstances under which the property is sold mean a lot to the final price. For example: a couple who are in divorce and who want to get rid of their homes quickly, then you will typically see lower prices than a completely identical house that people can wait to sell until they get the right price. Therefore, the precautionary principle is a key element of the future housing tax system, so that only 80% of the tax is paid. of its assessment. So we are giving the citizen the benefit of uncertainty. Conversely, this means that one can only reduce one's tax payment if it is demonstrably made so big in an assessment that it has to be reduced by more than 20%. This will significantly reduce the burden of complaint. We support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164309	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next is the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164322	Thank you. It's nice after a little break in a few months to be back as tax rapporteur. My speech here will be relatively brief, but I hope I can contribute a little more here later in the day when the other legislative proposals are being examined. We're still out there and we're not backing this. There's, like, sir. Rune Lund also said before, several good elements, but we cannot be involved in a distribution where you give more to the property owners. There are so many elements where it has to be said that it is so complicated a calculation that it is simply too trivial and too black and white to say that the homeowners get more out of this and that it is a bad thing, because it is not quite bad that the homeowners get more. On the contrary, we must be very careful that no one is going to have to leave house and home. In general terms, however, it is just as when we said 'no' to be part of the agreement that we also have to say 'no' here. We would like to move in a different direction, and we would generally like to see us tax property more heavily than we do today. It's not necessarily popular, but we still want that, and that's why, overall, we can't be a part of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164425	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments, so the next speaker is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164433	The Radical Left has been opposed to the tax freeze on housing since it was introduced in 2002. We think that the money spent on that housing tax stop could have been spent much better. We believe that this has helped to create social inequality. It has also helped to create geographical inequality between large cities and rural areas. We believe that, overall, our community and our society have made too little of the money spent on having such a tax freeze. We would have gained much more from them if the money had been spent promoting it, that people go to work, that people are taking an education, and that people start a business and become entrepreneurs. We would have gained much more from this as a community. We had had many more jobs and much more development. Instead, as we see it, we have spent a lot of money on a housing tax stop, which we have not really got anything out of as a community. That is why we welcome the agreement we have reached with a number of other parties which abolish the housing tax freeze. It is only for a very long time, and we would have liked to have stopped the housing tax something earlier. But we are glad that this is happening at some point, because with what had been the prospect, taxes on housing were actually being phased out. We don't think there was any reason for that. The bill here takes care of two parts of our deal. One is that you can be allowed to freeze the increase that comes into the blame. We think that is sensible. Then you pay it later when you sell the property. We also think it makes sense to introduce this precautionary principle. They say that when an accommodation is valued at an amount, you take 20 per cent. of, before you tax it. As Mr. Joachim B. Olsen spoke very well about it because we politically recognise that there is an uncertainty about the property valuations. That is why it is a good idea, in relation to the legal certainty of citizens, to take a little off the price, so that you are sure that it will not be quite unfair when there are likely to be errors of assessment. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164650	There is just one brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164656	It is just out of curiosity: when the rapporteur says that the Radical Left has been against the housing tax stop since 2002, is there a reason why it was not changed when you sat in government from 2011 to 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164707	Yes, it is because there was a larger party with which we were in government that did not agree with that view. And various conciliations have also been reached across the board, which tied that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164719	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164722	Thank you for that, and I can only be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164726	Mrs Pia Adelsteen should be in her right to be happy about that. I think our society could have gotten more out of spending that money differently since 2002.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164735	Thank you to the rapporteur. No, there's just one more for a brief comment. Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164740	But in relation to the tax freeze, the starting point was that it was due to expire in 2020, and this housing agreement means that just up to 2025 will have to be poured 20 billion. kr. in this agreement and they could have gone to some of the very many things mentioned by the rapporteur for the Radicals. How do the Radicals feel about 20 billion? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. For the Radicals have argued a great deal about the need for these reforms because there should be money for welfare. But now billions of kroner are being spent, which comes from the deterioration of the recipient of the daily allowance, such as: had a better security in the past, and that money is now being spent on some homeowners. I guess that's not what was meant by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164840	No, I agree. One should only remember that in the election campaign conducted in 2015, at least the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Left said that the housing tax stop should be continued indefinitely. Now those parties have turned around and want the housing tax stop abolished, certainly significantly later than I think both Enhedslisten and Radical Left think is a good idea. And that's why we're in the deal because you end up where we want to go. Then I agree with Mr. Rune Lund in that it could have gone a little faster, so that amount, Mr. Rune Lund mentions, could have been significantly less than the 20 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164915	As the author does not wish to speak on his second brief remark, thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313164925	Since 2002, in other words for 16 years, there has been a tax freeze on property value tax, which has undermined welfare by 9 billion. kr., and it has so much enlarged the inequality in Denmark both economically and geographically. Sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's tax stop was a reverse Robin Hood not only in relation to people's incomes, but also geographically. In a number of answers from the Treasury over time we have tried to look at what the tax freeze has meant in the residential area, and there is clearly a difference between country and city, as many of the owners of the houses and apartments that have been worth the least have paid the most, and it should not be forgotten that during that period the tenants have not got anything out of it; so it increased the inequality between tenants and owners, between country and city, between Copenhagen and the area north of Copenhagen and most of the rest of the country. It has simply been the worst idea, and it is a pity that it should take so long to put an end to it. We agree with the principle that the battle with the tax freeze is a good idea, but like Mr. Rune Lund of Enhedslisten we think it is a very expensive pleasure, so to speak. Besides, it's cost 10 billion. kr. We now see that the model that is being made costs 20 billion. kr. kr. taken from the room. The Council room is the money that we have left, so to speak, and that we can spend on following in relation to the welfare requirements that are legitimate from the population, in relation to demographic development. So it is money that could otherwise have gone to educators, sosus and nurses. There are other things that I might think are a little relevant today and in these times when we are discussing the so-called ghettoud game of the government. We see that it is being proposed to make a number of changes in the general housing sector and that the bill is being sent completely one to the tenants for something you say is a social problem in this big discussion we have about where people live and so on.; at the same time quite large fortunes have been built up in bricks over the last 16 years. It turns out that the biggest factor of how well you manage financially through a life is whether you enter the housing market or not. That is what we call social values. For yes, you can improve your house, but it is so small a share of the historical increases that are happening in the housing market including periods when we have terrible crises like the one we had with the housing bubble during the financial crisis. And the fact that your life income must be determined by whether you enter the housing market or not, and not by what you train for or what you work with, or how much you work with, is just a basic injustice. That's also why the wise men are sitting on the Economic Council again and again, saying: get rid of this tax freeze. They do not relate very much to whether it is unfair or not, but it is a crazy socio-economic situation. I mean, it would be much better, even if I personally disagree, for example. to give it in tax relief. It's the worst business socio-economically to have had this tax stop at all. The wise men propose, and have proposed, on a number of occasions, when they have dealt with this subject, that the overall tax rate should be at least 1.2 per cent. on average, and in the agreement made by the government with a number of parties, well there actually the property value tax was reduced to 0.55%. kr. We think freezing is a great idea. We have also wanted it in the proposal that we made before the government came forward with its proposal for negotiation. We came up with a proposal in autumn 2016 and again in January 2017, in which we just said: Let us now normalize the taxation of our residential area, but ensure that no one should leave house and home; they said so. For there are clearly some of those who are sitting in what should you say ordinary parcel houses, which would have seen an increase that they would not have been able to afford. Let us freeze that tax and then realize it by a sale, that is, out of the gain you get when you sell your home. That's where I hear we're completely in line with the Enhedslisten. We say that on the day you sell your home, you have the money to pay the bill so that you do not have to sit with the current payment. The 20% precautionary principle. In other words, there are huge gains to those who sit in the most expensive homes and who often sit there because they have realised some gains in previous housing sales. We think this is too much, while recognising that we can never make a completely perfect assessment. So all in all, even though there are some positive and negative things about this proposal, we are against the whole package and cannot vote for this specific bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313165538	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so the next speaker is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313165550	Thank you very much. The draft law we are discussing here is intended, as several rapporteurs have said, to implement this agreement on property taxes and valuations, which was agreed in a broad circle here in May last year. As the Conservative People's Party is part of the agreement, we naturally support the bill, but it should not be a secret either that we would have liked to have seen that we had been even more ambitious in this area and had gone even further. In fact, we would have preferred to see the current housing taxes abolished and instead the housing tax replaced by a tax when you have the money in your hand, for example. in connection with selling your house. But it was not possible to get through such a reform, so our ambition in these negotiations was to ensure the highest possible level of security for Danish homeowners, so that you do not risk being sent from house and home by rising housing taxes, which we have heard so many stories about. I would like to highlight two things which we believe contribute to increasing security and which are contained in the draft law here. The first is what several rapporteurs have also mentioned about the precautionary principle in the property assessments. With the new property assessment system, it is estimated that you have a margin of error of plus/minus 20%. in relation to the actual value of the dwelling, and there we think it is very sensible to introduce this precautionary principle, so that the risk lies not with the owner of the dwelling but with SKAT. In this way we will also ensure that the lowest possible level of housing tax will pay too much. The second element I would like to highlight is the temporary freezing of the increase in the basic debt by 2020 compared to 2017. This means that at least we are not surprised by an increasing ground debt, which we have fought a great deal against in the Conservative People's Party. This means that you know what you're dealing with, so you don't suddenly get surprised and can't afford to live in your home anymore. With the principle of freezing, we also think we are moving a small step into the system that I started by saying in this way is the ideal one: this is where you pay your taxes only when you have the money in your hand. But with the agreement, we will ensure greater security for the homeowners. You know your treasure from the day you move into your home. These examples we have heard about some who may have paid out their accommodation and then retired and then suddenly cannot afford to pay the current housing taxes are the situations we have to avoid for everything in the world, and we do so with this system at least, because then you know your taxes, from buying the house and forward. So, with those comments, I would just like to conclude by thanking you for the cooperation on the agreement we have made and saying that, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313165845	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next speaker is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313165856	Thank you. Thank you for the predominantly positive reception of the bill, which represents an important step on the road to increased security of housing tax and for all people who own a home in Denmark, and fortunately it is really, very many Danes. It's a big decision to buy an apartment. For most Danes it is the biggest economic decision they will make through life, and therefore it is only fair that there is security about the housing tax for the individual so that you know what to pay and when to pay it and that there is reasonableness in what is to be paid. The first parts of the housing tax settlement that are part of this bill will be experiencing very soon. It is the temporary freezing system that ensures that increases in the ground debt for the whole of 2018, that is to say the year in which we find ourselves, will be frozen in connection with the collection of ground debt for the second half of 2018. This then means that the homeowners who have awakened after New Year's Eve and have seen that the municipality through e-Boks has charged the first charge for the ground debt, and where they see that nothing has been frozen and that there is indeed an increase, in connection with the second charge will see that we neutralize the overall increase that should have been in 2018. It is frozen instead of frozen, so what you have to pay for 2018 is the same thing that you had to pay in kroner and ear for 2017. But it has only been possible to do this with legislation from the second half of 2018. With the precautionary principle, we must ensure that the uncertainty associated with the valuation of real estate benefits the owners, and that is where we are a little further forward in time. This will apply from the time when the new property assessments form the basis for taxation. Why are we giving such a discount? I heard that some of the rapporteurs were outraged, especially at the extreme left. That's because we in the government think it's fair. An assessment will always be an assessment • there will be an estimation. If we tax a wage income, we can say you have to pay 40%. or 50%. of your salary in tax • very many Danes pay more than that and there you can then see what you get paid and what you then have to pay in tax. It's a simple calculation. In relation to taxing something that needs to be assessed, there is uncertainty in the assessment, and we need to be open and honest about that, and there have the parties supporting the housing tax agreement chosen and I think it is very sensible to say that that uncertainty should benefit the individual homeowner in the form of a 20-percent reduction. Then, of course, you can have a problem with that, as Mr. Enhedslisten's. Rune Lund does, and say that it is unreasonable when you make a percentage discount, i.e. that if you have a large accommodation, you get in crowns and ears a greater relief than if you have a small accommodation. Anyway, that's the way our tax system is built up when we lower a tax percentage; the more you earn, the more relief you get. And that, in my view, is also quite reasonable. I guess I don't quite agree with Mr. Knox. Rune Lund in any case in this case, but it would also be surprising. Both the temporary freezing system and the precautionary principle are two key elements in ensuring security of housing taxation, and I am therefore also pleased with the broad support in this Chamber for the bill and with the parties behind the long run we had for a new housing tax agreement. We owe it to the many Danes who own a dwelling that there is security about what they should pay in tax and reasonableness about what they should pay in tax. The next step is then the legislative proposals that translate those parts of the housing settlement that are to take effect from 2021. So here it is the temporary freezing system and the tax debate that have been put into the assessment system. Then there are a number of initiatives that will only enter into force in 2021, and it is, as I have said, the rebate scheme, the permanent freezing system, this was the temporary and the modernised rise limitation rule and, last but not least, SKAT's taking over the debt collection. Where it is today the municipalities that are levying a ground debt, it will be SKAT and the tax administration forward-looking. It is already the tax administration that collects the property value tax, so it makes sense to move away from the invoice you receive in your e-Boks and enter the tax return. In addition, new and in many cases significantly lower rates of property value tax and land tax must be set. Those proposals will be put forward in the forthcoming assembly of parliaments and later in the assembly of parliaments. I look forward to the government presenting the future legislative proposals here in the Parliamentary Chamber, so that we can fully implement a new housing tax system. I hope that the homeowners are happy that we have had a broad settlement so that, no matter what happens at the next parliamentary elections, where I hope, of course, for the re-election of the government, but also if it should be different, then it is hard to see that this housing tax agreement should be moved, all the time that it is very broad. And there I will sign for the good cooperation that has been in a long-standing process of negotiation, but the result has ended up being good. I am also looking forward to the committee reading, but before I finish, I shall deal with a few of the criticisms that are being raised here today. One is one of the criticisms raised by Mr Beazley. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten, and I've addressed some of them. What I'd like to dwell on a little bit is sir. Rune Lund's indictment of the theft. Here there are some parties that take some money that could have been spent on anything else and ease the taxation of housing. And it is true that we are spending some money on lowering housing taxation. In the long term, in other words in many, many years' time, we have ensured that we have a housing tax system which, unlike what we have today, is long-term. So if we are looking at the long term, we will now have something that is more reasonable and fairer and that can be supported by IT, so that we can secure a source of revenue for the state, possibly at a slightly lower level than it would otherwise have been, but we will ensure a source of revenue for the state. I think that should be acknowledged, because we spend that money. After all, there will be a very large billion ECU on housing tax, over 40 billion. kr. a year. And when the housing stock grows in value in the coming years, when the property owners get richer, they can of course keep part of the money they have got out of their investment, but some are also paid into the community and can be used to fund a number of other things. That is why I think we should be pleased with the proposal that is before us. And then it is reasonable to have the view that housing taxation will be increased. I don't want that, the government doesn't want that. Fortunately, a majority in the Folketing does not wish to do so. But it is fair to have the political point of view. Sir. Rune Lund also spends some time saying that this space could have been used for all sorts of other things. And it is true, as I said, that it could. But it is, of course, a room for manoeuvre which Enhedslisten has in no way helped to provide. If it were up to the Enhedslisten, we would not have carried out these reforms in, among others. the former Left Government, which ensures that we now have a room for manoeuvre, we can use both to lower taxes, housing tax, and the tax on work, and we can increase our welfare, we can give more money to health and to the elderly. The room for manoeuvre would not have been here if the Enhedslisten had had power, as they have been watching in the Assembly Hall. Then we would not have had the reforms that have made the social cake bigger and made Denmark richer and that now we have the opportunity both to give money for welfare and to lower the tax, in this case housing tax. And that's why I think the criticism sounds a little hollow. Nor do I think it is fair to acknowledge that we have had good cooperation with the Radical Left in this debate with what Mr. Andreas Steenberg says that now we don't have a home tax stop anymore. It is true that the housing tax stop, as we knew it from 2001, is no longer here, but it has been replaced by a new, modernised housing tax stop, a modern housing tax stop. With the old housing tax freeze, we only kept the property value tax in order, and there we saw that the land tax increased, but now we have created a system where increases in both levels of taxation are controlled, while at the same time ensuring that there is no tax screw that can just run away. So, in my view, we have had a better housing tax stop than what we had. So that the housing tax stop is gone, I do not agree with that, and I would like to take this opportunity to say, but it is true that some of the imbalances created by the old housing tax stop are being corrected. However, the security and political intention behind Fogh's vision of limiting the increases in housing tax back in 2001 has, in my view and in the view of the government, been transferred in a sensible way to the new system. With those words I may have provoked some of the tax rapporteurs, and they will certainly ask me some questions, and I shall look forward to answering them, just as I shall look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313170940	Thank you, Minister. Two brief comments have indeed been made. And the first one is sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313170948	Thank you. The tax minister was so polite to give a receipt to the parties that helped to make the deal. I would also like to say that there are so many political issues that have to be dealt with during such a parliamentary term, and here there is probably one of the agreements which puts a fairly large print and which will have a very long-range significance in the years to come. I think that we are all in a good position to have reached this agreement with the beneficial consequences it has. Moreover, I think there was such an excellent argument from the Minister of Taxation in relation to some of the criticisms made by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rune Lund. The pleasure that the tax minister ends up expressing about the agreement, I also think is so fine that I think most people don't see very much Anders Fogh Rasmussen in it. And the Danish People's Party and we may be the ones who have been most clearly pleased with the agreement here too. But what I asked a little about was whether there might be an opportunity to adjust to this with the municipal freezing in relation to the possibility of being able to pay as a citizen, if you actually want to, so that there is no automatic in that you have to wait these years to come up with a decision as to whether you want to pay or freeze it for these first years from 2018 to 2020. Is it quite impossible, or can a new round be made to see if it is not possible? I actually think there's a lot of people who would like that if they could.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171117	Well, it is part of the criticism that has been made of the bill that you force everyone to freeze it. And what if you want to pay what you owe? This is a good, sensible and healthy principle, and I would like to give the opportunity to do so if it were possible to support and administer it. The Ministry of Taxation and SKAT have poor experience of adopting complicated legislation without being able to support it IT-wise or administratively, and that is the challenge in this case. That is why we have chosen to say: the alternative was that there was no freezing system for anyone, and that in 2021 we had a freezing system to choose from or to choose from. Otherwise, we simply have to say that everyone will be included in the freezing system. And that is what we have decided. On the other hand, you pay nothing in interest during this period. And by 2021 you will have the opportunity to pay what you owe if you wish. I would like to look further at whether it is possible to support it now in terms of IT, but I think the answer will be the same, namely that unfortunately it is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171233	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171235	I just want to thank you for that statement. Let's try it. If it is possible to determine what the individual owes and that will be shown in the system, then there must also be the possibility of establishing a payment solution. But we have to see what the possibilities are during the committee procedure. I believe, as I have said, that many of the voters of the Left really like to live by the principle that when you can see you have a tax bill, you pay it. I think we should look again if that is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171312	Yes, but I think that the answer will be that it will be very costly to do and that the costs will not match how many citizens will take advantage of it. But, of course, I would like to look into it again. It is, of course, part of the legal procedure we are currently doing here that we are making a political agreement in a closed room. There are some prerequisites, there are some notes, and then the Danish Parliament has included those parties that part of the agreement has the opportunity to verify it by asking questions and other questions. And we are welcome to do so; it is part of the parliamentary work. If that turns out to be possible, we will have to meet and agree that we will do what Mr. Jesper Petersen requests, but let's take it one step at a time. Of course, we are happy to give the undertaking to look at it once again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171359	The next short remark is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171403	I think the Minister of Taxation is saying two things. On the one hand, the tax minister tells Mr. Andreas Steenberg, that it is wrong for the tax freeze to be lifted, but tells me and to Enhedslisten that we should be glad that we have some property assessments in the future and that there will then be a continuous taxation of it on the basis of the rates that apply. It's like saying two things at the same time. In fact, we think it is a very good idea to make a system forward-looking, saying that you have some assessments of what a dwelling is worth and that you then tax it on the basis of the applicable rates. We do not like the precautionary principle. We think that some data should be collected, so we need to use more funds and allocate more resources to consolidate data that are closer to reality than those which are apparently an ambition to gather now. But basically, it's really thought. The problem is that extra money is being poured into it. The 20 billion. kr., which we are talking about up to 2025, is money that could have been spent on something else. And when, for example, you do... back from the welfare agreement in 2006 it can see that it says that the money should be reserved to secure the funding of the welfare society in the future, then it is, excuse me, a break in tithes that, instead of being used to give tax rebates to the homeowners. The tax minister must be able to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171526	There is typically political and economic room for manoeuvre. That room for manoeuvre is so much greater or less, depending on the decisions you make, and it is also influenced by our trade with other countries and a number of things that we are not master of, for example. the development of oil prices, the revenue from the North Sea, the interest on what we get into the PAL tax. However, that does not change the fact that the government we have now and my party, the Left, led a large number of reforms that increased the room for manoeuvre. After all, it is a room for manoeuvre to be used to ensure the future of Denmark. And you can ensure the future of Denmark by just allowing the public sector to grow and grow, but you can also secure the future of Denmark and our welfare society by ensuring that there are good conditions for jobs in the private sector, that we are competitive, that you as a homeowner have good conditions, and there are several million Danes who own a home, and there are many from rich to poor who own a home. As a liberal, I want to support the ownership of a dwelling. It is a political wish from me: people will own their own homes. To spend money making it cheaper to own your own home and provide security around housing taxes, I must say I think is part of future-proofing our welfare society and our community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171643	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171645	However, the welfare agreement says that the money must be reserved to ensure the financing of the welfare society in the future. We have seen the deterioration in early retirement, we have seen the deterioration in sickness benefits, we have seen the deterioration in flex jobs, we have seen the deterioration in cash benefits, which have thrown thousands of people into poverty. Each time the argument has been that there must be money for the welfare of the future. Then it's a gigantic break of promise all of a sudden to grab 20 billion. kr. from that space and use it for tax discounts to the property owners on a housing tax stop that would have expired by 2020. Can we not get that recognition from the tax minister, that one has been said, but that now with this housing tax agreement something else is being done?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171725	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171727	It is quite true that if we had not reached this agreement, we would have seen rising housing taxes, that is, if we had not extended the broad agreement on a housing tax freeze introduced by Anders Fogh Rasmussen in 2001. That is absolutely right. We didn't want that. We do not want housing taxes to increase. I would like to see a tax system in which, if values increase a great deal, we have to pay more in tax. It is only fair that if you get more in pay, you also have to pay more tax on wage income. But, on the other hand, I do not want a housing tax system where people are allowed to leave their homes because they do not know what to pay or because they cannot pay, as long as the value of the dwelling is not released until you sell the property and have the money in your hand. However, the tax must be taken on a regular basis, which is why there is a special consideration here to take into account the country's homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171819	Thank you, Minister. There are no more entries for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171839	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313171922	After all, the social democracy wants to contribute politically to the creation of a greener car park. This applies both when it is a passenger car and when it is a climate load from truck transport. In this area, we are part of the Eurovignette, where we have a common road tax for lorries of 12 tonnes or more for freight transport in Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. It is a joint cooperation which is beneficial to the industry and which the business community welcomes. So with this bill, there's going to be a change in the rates of these charges. The point of that is to contribute to an increased incentive to drive with trucks that pollute less. The current rates were fixed in 2001 and the rates will now rise about. 20% in real prices for the so-called dayvignettes and for the oldest and most polluting vehicles compared to 2001 levels. Fortunately, the vast majority of Danish vehicles are so environmentally friendly that at least they comply with the so-called Euro III standard, so it is actually not so much Danish vehicles that will be affected. It will therefore be foreign vehicles that will contribute to an increase in income from this area, which is part of the financing of another agreement that we have made, which also means that we will have a greener car park. Finally, there is also an element in the vehicle register bill. It will allow companies charging for the use of roads, bridges, ferries and tunnels to have access to the Vehicle Register so that they can send a charge to a vehicle owner via license plate information. After all, it is a system and a technique which is being used in various other countries with great success. And we think it is good that we also have the opportunity in Denmark to make some smart payment solutions, so that you can for example. do not have to stop to pay for the use of a bridge. Social democracy can therefore vote in favour of the bill when we get this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172140	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172150	Thank you. I would like to say very briefly that the Danish People's Party also supports this proposal. It is, of course, as has been mentioned, a change in road tolls for lorries, in other words over 12 tonnes, the so-called Eurovignette. The rates are differentiated in such a way that those who pollute the most also pay the most and those who pollute the least pay the least. Well, that's pretty logical, isn't it? There will then be, as I said, the extension of access to the Vehicle Register so that those who manage tunnels and bridges etc. can submit a bill directly to the vehicle owner. After all, it allows for some of these new, modern payment solutions where road users do not have to stop. However, I have a question on this point. Because when foreign trucks come in and have to scan such a license plate, is one thing that they get scanned the license plate, and another thing that is being sent a bill, but what if they don't pay? How do you want to make sure that you actually get money in? Otherwise, as a foreign truck owner, I'd make sure to drive all those places and then don't pay. So it's kind of important. But I expect the Minister will be able to answer that. But otherwise the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172258	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. So the next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172307	Thank you. It has actually been explained very well. It is the Eurovignette scheme in relation to lorries that is at issue here, on which we are now ratifying an agreement from the European Union. This means that it will increase slightly, so that the incentive to drive in a more environmentally friendly truck gets better, and the money that comes in is used to fund some of our other agreements. I do not really want to add much more, for most things have been said. So I just want to say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172343	Thank you. This is going well fast, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. While Mr. Rune Lund walks up here, I would say that in practical terms I do not see a need for there to be an evening break. I think we're going through, and if you're gonna do a little errand, we're gonna figure it out, too. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172410	This bill implements the agreement concluded by Denmark in December 2017 with the other countries of Eurovignette cooperation: Holland, Luxembourg and Sweden. The agreement then extends this cooperation until 2029, but changes the tax rates and differentiates them against the well-known emission standards Euro I-VI. This means that we are now introducing a principle that the most dirty vehicles and the vehicles that wear the most on the road network are going to have to pay more in the future than the vehicles that are least dirty and hardest to wear. This is, of course, a good principle which gives road hauliers an incentive to invest in the most environmentally friendly trucks, and it can be said that it was also about time, because the rates were last regulated in 2001, when the Euro III standard had just been introduced. In view of the fact that the new agreement between the Eurovignette countries runs until 2029, we on the Enhedslisten side are a little wondered because this is how we read the bill that it does not introduce a dynamic system that takes into account future stricter requirements, as it is likely to result in the emissions of trucks. Up to 2029 we will probably see new standards being developed and there is also a significant development of electric trucks, and this should be given even more advantage in the Vignette system than diesel and gas-powered trucks. The agreement between the Vignette countries does not seem to take this into account. The closest you can get to it is surely that Euro V vehicles increase in price per person. 1 January 2020 and thus become a bit more expensive than Euro VI vehicles. In addition, the concept and cleaner is used But at that time a Euro VI vehicle may well be considered a very dirty vehicle, just as a Euro III vehicle does today. With regard to the second part of the bill to give companies that require payment for the use of roads, bridges, ferries or tunnels, access to the Vehicle Register, we would like to know from the Enhedslisten what information is thus provided. It is, of course, a major debate that is currently taking place on the coordination of information and other matters, and we would really like to know what information is involved, i.e. whether it is information other than the identity of the owner, the user of the vehicle, that comes with it. As you know, we are very concerned that not all sorts of personal information flow around people all sorts of different places where they should not float around. Despite the critical remarks, we will say that we are of course positive about the bill, because it introduces the principle that the most dirty polluter must pay the most to use the Danish road network, and we hope that this will be the case now too, that the Minister can reassure us in relation to our concern that no extraneous personal data will be passed on to private companies by collecting non-payment by roads, bridges, ferries and tunnels.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172733	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172742	Thank you. The bill here implements an intergovernmental agreement on tolls for lorries over 12 tonnes, the so-called Eurovignette. It has looked at the rates and the possibility of access to the Vehicle Register. These are relatively modest changes, and we can support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172804	Thank you. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313172817	Thank you. We are also in favour of the bill. As one of my fellow rapporteurs mentioned just now, there is, of course, a data element which is unclear in many legislative proposals at the moment. I do not really think it is the government's color that means that there are the ambiguities; I simply think it is because we are entering a new time when data should then precisely in relation to how we collate the registers and how we are going to collate the information that we might get from granting permission to use, i.e. license plate data and various personal data. Rune Lund asked what kind of people we just need to be very, very aware that from the very beginning it is as transparent as possible, even with the pitfalls that may be. Because there I think that the way we gain the trust of the citizens and also the trust of the individual parties is, at least ours in the Alternative is to get the sort ideas out in such a collection process here immediately, and then we have to assess the cost-benefit: is this worth doing? It will be in many cases, but the problem, also in terms of trusting in digitalisation and all the opportunities that lie in it, is that we do not get out of the way with the odds in the first place. So let's take a positive look at this and say yes, but at the same time really from the start come out with the sorts that may be in relation to collating the registers: what kind of surveillance are we going to do quite consciously to benefit a good cause? But what is it at the same time that this surveillance is going to be able to do in relation to the personal freedom of the people who drive around in the cars and trucks that you are going to register? This is not something we have a habit of in Danish politics at present. to be too sharp to begin with when we come up with new digital solutions. There I think we could turn the development into much more positive when we do digitisation, if we come with the fighting ideas first, so that we can enjoy all the positive things. So we're positive in the alternative to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173013	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173023	In the Radical Left, we can also support the bill. By far most of the content is an update of the current law, so it is in line with the agreement Denmark has entered into with other countries on this road tax for trucks. The change that the government is making, which means greener lorries, we are very much in favour of. We think it is very wise to go in and differentiate the tax so that it hits the lorries that pollute the most. We think this is a good idea and it helps to promote a more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly vehicle fleet for trucks, so we can support that and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173106	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173118	I'll be very brief. The SF also supports, and I would also like to endorse the comments made by Mr SF. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173128	It is easy to be President and Minister in this Chamber today. I would like to thank the rapporteur and welcome Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173139	Thank you. We can also support the bill. I am not going to repeat what the previous rapporteurs have said, but I would just like to highlight an element that we consider to be particularly positive, and this is about the increased differentiation of the tax on heavy goods vehicles emissions. We know very well that it is this non-quota sector that has the greatest challenges in reducing CO2 so, of course, we also support this around the Vehicle Register. After all, we think it is very good if we can promote smart solutions, smart payment solutions, so that we can create a more efficient payment solution that will also benefit our business community. So, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173234	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no brief comments, and then we have reached a certain quite happy tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173254	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for agreeing to the bill. It is, after all, the implementation of what is so beautifully called an intergovernmental agreement, that is, an agreement between states, to change road tolls for lorries, and that is the so-called Eurovignette. I am pleased that agreement has been reached with the other countries involved in the agreement to update the tax system with up-to-date rates and ensure a more green profile. After all, I disagreed very much with Mr. Rune Lund on the previous point, but here I can agree entirely with him that it is time and sensible to do so, so there is no political disagreement on that issue at least. In the view of the government, the new agreement ensures a proper balance between the economic conditions of the professions and environmental considerations. At the same time, we consider it both reasonable and natural that both Danish and foreign hauliers pay for the use of the Danish roads by means of the Eurovignette, that is to say that you pay for the work done on the roads. The draft law provides for an extension of access to information in the Vehicle Register for companies operating roads, bridges, ferries or tunnels. The aim is to allow these companies to send a bill for the use of the infrastructure directly to the owner of the car. This may be relevant for non-payment, but it can also pave the way for more flexible payment solutions in the future for the benefit of both companies and customers. You can, for example. imagine that it will be possible for road users to cross a bridge, it could be the Storebælt Bridge, without having to stop to pay or to make some brobizz say a sound, but that is to say that you can just drive through, and then your license plate gets scanned. This will make it easier for the operator, in this case Storebælt, and it will also make it easier for the driver to pay automatically in this way. So it can provide a saving for all parties and thus a socio-economically sensible saving. Moreover, it is a good example of how all the data that the tax administration has collected if it is done wisely and sensibly, can create added value in society and support various objectives; in this case, the desire to move from a to b as quickly as possible and ensure proper settlement of e.g. bridge charges. As the rapporteurs have also mentioned, this must, of course, take into account the rules of the Personal Data Act on data sharing. And there we are, after all, better off with the EU's new data protection regulation on a number of points than we have been in the past. It puts a number of would say complicated rules of the game, but also from a consumer protection and data protection point of view, the sensible rules on when to share what data. Now there has not been much debate about the proposal, but I would like to thank you for the comments and discussions that have been held in the Parliamentary Chamber today. In relation to the question from the Danish People's Party about what actually happens, if you do not pay, i.e. the Eurovignette, then there are some companies that charge this tax and send a part of it to us. And there it is the companies that are responsible for bringing in the money if you do not pay, and I assume that they can, for example. using private debt collection companies and others. But we don't get involved in whether it's paid or not. Of course you have to pay, but compared to how you come after those who do not pay, it is they who manage the system, not just in Denmark, but in those countries where it is like that. And as far as I am aware, it is working wisely, and I believe it will do so after these amendments to the legislative proposal. Because you don't change the model, you just change the rates. So these are my comments on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173658	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173701	That's in relation to this data security issue. I really think it is true that it is being raised. This is something we need to be aware of as legislators, even as we use more and more data and do so in the field of taxation. But right here I think that yes, the technological leaps are no greater. When you arrive today with the brobizz and drive over the Storebælt Bridge, there is also a record that it is exactly your car, and somewhere your license plate number is associated with you establishing yourself as a brobizz garden that ran over the Storebælt Bridge at exactly that time. Now it becomes another form of registration that the vehicle has passed through the payment facility at the Storebælt Bridge. It is clear that there are some mechanisms to do that there is security for people as to what happens to their data. For example, do you take... Also pictures of those they're sitting with inside the car? After all, you can't do that with the brobizz. The Minister may reassure us about this in the course of the committee procedure. Otherwise, I just thought it was good with the nuance that there is already a record today when you drive past a payment facility. Now it just gets easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173817	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173819	Yes, sir, I fully agree with that. Jesper Petersen in. For my 10 years in the Danish Parliament, I have been sceptical about register sharing. Of course, you have to be, but I have arrived at a position, and that is my political position today after 10 years in the Danish Parliament, that you should be more concerned about the security that applies to how to collate registers, what legal guarantees apply to the data you collect, rather than having a fundamental opposition to collating things. For a huge value can be created for society and for the individual, who can create growth and jobs by taking the data which, among other things, include: Public authorities have, and use them in interaction with the private sector. I believe that this is very much possible without compromising on legal guarantees if you think about it. And it will certainly be the plan to do that in relation to this sharing of data from the Vehicle Register. I think it is certainly possible to do what Mr. Jesper Petersen says. That is absolutely right, there is the sharing of lots of data today. This is just a further development of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173930	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313173952	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313174006	The bill translates four elements into the agreement on the Finance Act 2018. Some of the measures will only come later. The government is proposing a number of tax cuts on the personal tax, and it is also proposing that the housing job scheme should be made permanent. The taxation of free telephone and internet, i.e. employer-paid private telephone and internet, must be abolished by 2020 and, in addition, the government will abolish the equalisation tax on pension savings, which should expire after 2019. In addition, it is proposed to raise the limit for child savings from DKK 3,000. for 6,000 kroner. annual. Firstly, a few comments on the political context in which the proposals are to be seen. After all, it is essentially a question of priorities in economic policy, when significant legislative proposals for tax reductions are brought to the square here in the Parliamentary Chamber and are therefore included in the priorities set out in the Finance Act. Social democracy puts welfare first. There are too many welfare areas with problems and also welfare areas where there will be a significant increase in needs in the coming years. At the same time, there are various duties for us to conclude defence reconciliations that have now been successful, but which involve costs, while at the same time restoring and improving our tax system and for us to see a need to lay the foundations for future growth and employment with investment in education, retraining and various growth measures. That is how we think that priority should be given, and it is a relatively small amount of room for manoeuvre that we really have to work with when we look at how the needs evolve, that is to say, that there are more elderly people, who are part of the population, and also that there are more children. The government, on the other hand, has been driving a huge amount around in an endless discussion so far and an ideologically conditional effort to reduce the tax on the most wealthy. Steel eyes from Anders Samuelsen behind a demand for lower top tax, a desire for the same from Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and one is ready for both welfare degradation, reduced child pay, higher retirement age and much else to be able to reduce the personal tax and not really tackle what are the real challenges for us as a society. Fortunately, all this has not come to pass. Citizens do not seem really interested in there being significant relief from top tax, nor is there a majority for it in the Folketing. Nor is it the answer to Denmark's challenges, so I understand that there is not much interest from the population. On the other hand, other more indirect tax reductions are being sought, many of which are directed towards the more prosperous parts of the population. Here with the bill there is then a slightly mottled bouquet in which the Social Democratic Party would like to support that, after many years of frozen money, an increase is made in what can be paid into a child savings annually without tax consequences. I would like to say straight away that we really want the legislative proposal to be split up in such a way that we can support that element of the legislative proposal. On the other hand, we are critical of the others. As far as the housing job scheme is concerned, it first takes up a large amount of money that could be used significantly better. This applies, moreover, to several of these tax proposals, and it is always easier to benefit more well-off groups. The housing job scheme is disproportionately expensive jobs to create. The latest version only expects to add 300 full-time employees. For us, the housing job scheme was a crisis tool. We helped to introduce it ourselves. We are not opposed to the system of principle, but it has had its time. It's falling at the wrong time now. We are no longer at all in the time of crisis that justified having a housing job scheme in order to get consumption going. The system is also uneven in terms of distribution. This is clear from the reply of the Minister of Taxation to Mr. Rune Lund, that almost half of the 445 million. DKK, the scheme costs after backflow and behavior, goes to the 20%. of the citizens who earn the most. The citizens themselves could probably afford to pay the electrician or other craftsmen without the help of other taxpayers. There is still a large loss of deadweight in the system, that is, that a very large part of what is done with deduction would have been done anyway. According to the Ministry of Taxation's own evaluation report of the housing job scheme, nearly 70% of the jobs are employed. However, even if the scheme did not exist, the qualifying crafts and services would have been carried out white. From a more general perspective in economic policy it is also clear that time has run out of the system. Both the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Employment say about the risk of overheating and lack of labour in one week, and the next week a large amount of money is spent on continuing a housing job scheme which increases the demand in a particular sector which cannot be said to be in need in advance and which, to some extent, is in competition with the industry that we need from a competitive point of view, is not going to experience labour shortages too quickly. I would say that there is a piece there before it is the general picture that there is a shortage of labour, but in some industries and in some parts of the country there really is a problem that is pressing, and that is not something that the housing job scheme is helping. Instead, we should spend tax dollars on schools, care for the elderly and day care and not lead the workforce to a particular industry with this kind of state aid. The point about employer-paid free telephone and internet has an even more biased distribution. Barely 60%. of the proceeds go for tax relief to the 20%. Most affluent. The tax relief costs more than 0.5 billion. kr., and it is also in our opinion money that should go to improve various welfare areas. I think it sounds hollow when the government and the Danish People's Party claim that tax relief is to be granted at the bottom of the income scale. That is not what is happening with these measures at all. In fact, once again, the very opposite is happening. Equalisation in taxation will also be abolished. It is a slightly smaller amount, but I still think it has its justification and its reasonableness to exist. Indeed, the current governing parties, with the exception of the Liberal Alliance, also seem to be doing so because they themselves introduced the compensatory tax back in connection with the 2009 tax reform. It was simply a little too good to give in bags and bags to those who could afford to pay in private pension schemes with very large deductions, and then, after the top tax had been reduced considerably, that money could be made available for the significantly lower tax rate. It seems even Left and Conservatives were a little too good-looking, and therefore the compensatory tax was introduced. It was an unintended gain, it was called at the time when the law was put forward. So now it must be abolished, we are not in favour of it. So, as I said, we want a division. We are in favour of the proposal to increase the limit on child savings, but against extending the housing job scheme and abolishing the tax on free telephony and the Internet, and against abolishing the compensatory tax. And thank you, President, for the extra speaking time to get through a comprehensive legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313174722	But the rapporteur does not let go that easily. There is a brief comment from Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313174727	Thank you. After all, we got a long explanation about all the different things in the world that don't necessarily have anything to do with this bill. However, the rapporteur also referred to the draft law, and the rapporteur said that the rapporteur thought it was a crisis tool. Nevertheless, I remember it as if the Social Democratic Party, at the end of the parliamentary elections, where we also had an economic crisis, was opposed to a housing job scheme. I had many debates last summer with people who called in radio programmes and all sorts of things about the housing job scheme, and there was a clear overweight of older people who used the housing job scheme to get help, on the one hand, with cleaning, on the other hand, with repairing the house or gardening, and so I would like to hear Mr. Jesper Petersen, about Mr. Jesper Petersen believes that it is simply not right to provide old people with subsidies to get home help through the housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313174819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313174820	I respect the fact that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm has the personal experience of someone who has called her in a radio programme, but if we look at the statistical or factual situation as to how this scheme has actually been used, it is a very small part of what actually comes from the service part of it, that is to say to get cleaned up or to get help with the garden. I could see some sense in that, but we would still rather spend the money on something else. But the huge cost of this proposal comes from the fact that there are some people who can pay for their craftsman's bill and yet will get the job they intend to do, and they will then get a subsidy for it from some others. There was some sense in that, while there was a need to get the economy going, there could be a good way to push things forward, but we are not there at all now; there is no economic need at all. I know it is a popular proposal, and a huge number of Danes are using it, but at some point we must also just, as responsible politicians, look each other in the eye and ask if this is the best way to spend the money where we are now. And that's not our point of view. That money makes more use of education, investment, schools, day care institutions and other things than this kind of tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313174933	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313174934	After all, the Social Democratic Party has refused to support the housing job scheme. It has not even been wanted to enter into a dialogue on how to knit it together, so the fact that the Social Democratic Party suddenly favours the service part is quite surprising at this stage. That is why I would like to drill a little more into it: is it the case that the Social Democratic Party could support a service part of a housing scheme? I do not understand why you cannot support the fact that people get help in everyday life, and if you look at the distribution of the housing job scheme, it is, as far as I remember, relatively many people in North Jutland who get help with the housing job scheme. It is true that you also get help with the renovation of the house, but older people may also need it because older people have more difficulty painting the house or having the windows fixed or something else. So it's not like it's just the rich who use it here, this is a scheme for everyone, so why is it that the social democracy doesn't under ordinary Danes any welfare, that is, some help in everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175031	The Left is changing such a little argument about this bill as time goes by and according to what you just need to be able to argue with, and right now it is older policy. And it is the same government which, in relation to its needs, will halve the money we have to work with for the common welfare. It is known that there will be so many more older people in our society in the coming years, and the government itself makes calculations which say that there is a need for growth in the public sector of approx. 0.7% if we are to keep up with the developments that are taking place alone. You don't give a shit about that, and you want to sell half of it alone, but it's gonna hurt older people. There will then be more failures of older people in the care of the elderly, in the nursing homes, if you are so tough also in the care of the elderly, and then we have to stand here and listen to the fact that it is cooler with the housing job scheme than that you can get proper home care. I totally disagree with that argument, but it is well tried.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175126	Thank you very much, sir. Jesper Petersen for today's work, and welcome to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175136	Thank you. Thus, uplifted and encouraged on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to this proposal, which is part of the Finance Act, I will try to give a slightly more positive picture of it on behalf of the Danish People's Party. We will of course do so, partly because we are part of the Finance Act, partly because it is actually a very good law that we will be putting into effect in this debate today. As I have said, this is the permanentisation of the very well-functioning housing and service system that we have today, and it is the abolition of the tax on free telephone and the Internet, and it is the abolition of the compensatory tax, if the abolition is brought forward, and it is finally possible to increase the limits on child savings if you want to help your children or grandchildren better. In the Danish People's Party we are very pleased with this part of the Finance Act. In fact, we think these are some of the very good, key elements. We also think that this is the right way to provide tax relief if tax relief is finally to be discussed. I am well aware that there are parties that will unconsciously call this tax relief. However, we also believe that these are service improvements in relation to the fact that people have a better possession of their own economy, and you also get subsidies and motivation to use labour where VAT and taxes and taxes are paid on the work being done. If you look at this together, of course, I think that the housing job scheme and the service part take up a lot. Among the critics in the debate that took place in the autumn and December, and right up to the conclusion of the agreement, there was such a firm tradition that it should be said that it was the activity of the construction industry that did not have to support the permanentisation of the housing job scheme. In the Danish People's Party we have always said that this is not really the main argument for supporting the changes that make it permanent; in fact, it was three other and quite clear prerequisites that we thought were sensible and intelligent, and it was, of course, that this letting people report had actually proved to be a very good tool for minimising undeclared work. People have simply demanded the housing job scheme to such an extent that it has also been seen in relation to fewer tasks being demanded on the black market. Then there is the entire maintenance part of Danish housing • there are values of over 5,000 billion. kr. That's point number two. Then, of course, there is also the whole effort to provide more internships, more apprenticeships in Danish workplaces. We have seen that some of the places where people have been very good at generating more apprenticeships have been with small and medium-sized craft enterprises. They are not the ones who build the major buildings at Aarhus Harbour and all sorts of other places. No, it is actually the smaller companies, those who actually go out in service and maintenance to households and make smaller conversions, additions and improvements to the housing stock. So there is a housing job scheme that seems unsurpassed. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is the right effort to have it permanently fixed. It has been a great inconvenience that we have not known year by year when it expired, when changes came; whether there were things connected to the housing job scheme, or things that were tampered with. With this model, we also ensure that the private owners who choose to invest, for example, in getting the alarm on their property due to the many burglaries that unfortunately are in Denmark will also be subject to the housing job scheme in the future. We are part of the Finance Act, but we are also part of the parties who think that this is a very good legislative proposal, which implements a number of improvements • a number of improvements for both Danish employees and also for Danish small and medium-sized craft enterprises. So we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175627	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175632	This is mainly due to the fact that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby says this is the right way to make tax cuts. But we can see from the answers to the questions we have asked, how the distribution effect of this is and, in relation to the housing job scheme, it has to be noted that the 10%. The richest scores approx. 30% of the discount. Compared to the free phone, it is approx. 40% of the discount, which is grabbed by the 10%. In fact, if we take the distribution of revenue in relation to the abolition of the compensatory tax, it is more than 80%. of the discount goes to the 10%. The richest. Is it the ideal for the Danish People's Party, compared to how to make tax reductions in this country, that they 10%. the richest really should have the large part of the cake when tax is lowered in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175734	First of all, I would like to say that I do not think it is the very large part of the cake that can be talked about here. If you look at the total tax payments in Denmark, you can see that the housing system part and the service part do not in any way overturn the financial conditions of the Danish families. And then I would like to say that the abolition of the compensatory tax is actually an advance on the abolition of this tax already planned. Then you can discuss whether there was room for it. Yes, there was, and it was something that other parties insisted very much on. And if you are in a majority in which you seek influence, you sometimes have to give in. I know it can be a little difficult for Enhedslisten, because you rarely get in on it. But it is just a service information that if you are sometimes prepared to give, you will also be able to get some of your policy through more easily and more smoothly, including here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175826	We are going for maximum influence, but I can say that we could not dream of voting in favour of this. Now the rapporteur says that it is about giving in, but just now the rapporteur said that this was the right way to make tax cuts. Then I'll just have to ask if we take the compensatory tax again: the 10%. the richest scores over 80%. of the tax rebate in relation to the faster phasing out of the compensatory tax, and almost 30%. gets scored by the richest percent. Is this just the ideal way to make tax cuts in Denmark? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313175908	I do not think I can give any answers other than those I have already given. Here is a single package, and there are some things that some parties have carried to the negotiating table, and some other things have been more zealous about. This part is the advance of an agreement that has already been made. We think it is common sense that we should also ensure that the compensatory tax is abolished, and I stand by that. Of course I do. But this is not something that we have brought to the negotiating table. Our core has, in fact, been more about the housing job arrangement part, while the government actually presented a plan that said that it only wanted a service allowance so that childcare and window cleaning could be deducted. We would like to get the housing job scheme more into this whole section of the Finance Act, which also included some tax cuts, precisely because we could see that these are some of the places where apprenticeships, apprenticeships and internships are also generated. After all, you don't get trained as a caretaker or a trained window cleaner. Therefore, in our optics, it was far, far more important that we come into an agreement to ensure that it became a model where we could see ourselves, in terms of greater efforts being made to get young people into vocational training to a greater extent than they would otherwise have if they did not get these things. And you can see, if you look at Danish construction, that it is estimated that one in three Danish SMEs in the craft sector will actually employ more apprentices in order to support the development of the housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180036	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180042	Thank you. I really think that we in the Social Democratic Party have worked quite well with the Danish People's Party to get the government away from its ideas of making significant reductions in the top tax. I think that has been very good and very effective. The government didn't succeed. On the other hand, there are, for example: in this bill, something that still comes a little there, just by a different route, that is, the quite common principle of tax law that if you get paid as something other than money, but it has a private value, it still has to be taxed away. And that is what happens when the taxation of free private telephone services is abolished. And it is typically the more prosperous groups in Denmark that use it. It is not the cleaning assistant who has received a smartphone and an Internet and telephone subscription paid by his employer. There we are typically in the higher wage levels, and this also shows the figures on the bill that the Treasury has made. I am therefore surprised that the Danish People's Party has agreed to this proposal. Would the money, sir? Hans Kristian Skibby, have not been better used in the welfare areas from which they are taken in order to make this tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180207	Life must be lived forward, but it must be understood backwards. Sir. Jesper Petersen himself represents a party here in the Folketing, which abolished the property tax. I know it was under Poul Nyrup that they did it to get the Conservatives into a financial agreement. Yes, I could choose to tease the Social Democrats that you stand down here and are jealous of a model where some can have a tax removed on the free telephone. Then you might ask why you are so busy with it by the Social Democrats when the party itself thinks it is fantastic to remove a wealth tax from those who had the very highest fortunes in Denmark. Those who now benefit from the removal of a tax on their free telephone are very, very many ordinary employees with so-called ordinary LO incomes, and there are very, very many of them. Then I fully understand that there are of course more mechanics than cleaning assistants who get it, because the mechanic may have a greater need to be available in relation to good advice if there is a car that can't start, and everything else. We leave that entirely to the individual employer to deal with, and I actually have a lot of confidence that you can handle it. I agree, of course, that there will also be employees who are not offered free telephones in their employment, and I really do not want to get involved in that. Perhaps I just think that, after all, the Socialists should fairly recognise that by far, by far, most of those who are now receiving this tax relief are quite ordinary LO income, and surely one cannot be opposed to that in a LO party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180355	I simply do not think that Mr. His Kristian Skibby is right. True, there are many people who, in connection with their work, are equipped with a telephone by their employer, but it is a phone they use for their work and it does not mean that they have a private phone additionally paid with subscription and internet and the entire dyne. So you're going to have to separate that right over here. It is not all people who have a work phone that now gets some great tax relief, it is people who have their private telephone and private phone paid. So there we are somewhere other than the typical LO labour market, where that is what you like to get in your pay package, and if it is the right thing to do for the employer and the employee in that relationship, I think they should do it. I just think it is fair that one should then be taxed on the value of having paid one's salary on all sorts of other points. So I don't understand why the Danish People's Party wants to go through with this and use approx. kr. at it instead of in the care of the elderly or day care institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180457	Although these are complex things, I would like to call for a little self-discipline to be exercised. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180503	Now I don't know if Mr. Jesper Petersen has a popular phone. I have. We will have a telephone made available, and we have also been taxed on it in the past according to the rules that were in place. Then we got a supplement on our paycheck afterwards. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament helped to introduce this, in other words to compensate for it. But I also feel that the telephone I have is used both privately and in terms of work. Many of them are actually with subscription models, where there is what is called free speech and free text messages and everything else. Many of them have even been expanded later in relation to other EU countries, etc., in terms of roaming and everything else, and so I think a great many of these employees, including the LO employees, have it. Actually, I think most people use the same phone. I see a lot of people wearing a phone today, but I don't think I see a lot of people walking with two and three cell phones. Maybe I think that's the right way to deal with it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180604	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313180615	Thank you for that, President. This bill translates into those parts of the Finance Act that are about tax relief. If you listen to the debate, it may almost sound like we are discussing the whole budget law, because the Social Democrats make it sound like this is not it. May I just point out that in the Finance Act I know it has nothing to do with this bill, but it is because the debate has just been here that we are raising the amount and level of care for the elderly by 2.7 billion. kr. from 2018 to 2021 and we raise the amount we spend on health by 2 billion. kr. From 2018 to 2021. In other words, we are increasing welfare. One should then just bear in mind that, under the Socialist-led government that we had in the past, we had zero growth in the public sector for several years. So this is a growth in welfare. We invest in both welfare and tax relief. But today we are dealing with tax cuts, and that is why my speech is primarily about tax cuts. One of the things we focus on is making the housing job scheme permanent. The housing job scheme ensures that families and older people are all Danes, because it is not only targeted a few Danes, but targeted all Danes can get help with cleaning, rehabilitation, childcare or gardening in everyday life. This may be some of the things that can help make everyday life hang together for the busy families of children. It can be really difficult to make everyday life hang together, and there it may be some of the things that make it a little easier to make everyday life hang together. The elderly, who may not be satisfied with the level of cleaning that they have at home, can get subsidies to get some cleaning help or some garden help. You can also, if you can't paint the house yourself, get support to have the house painted. So it is a scheme that benefits a great many Danes. And I think it is also the welfare of the Danes. At the same time, the housing job scheme also discourages undeclared work, because we know that the fact that people have to send in receipts means that they have an incentive to make it white instead of black. We think this is really, really positive. The scheme we had in the past was criticised because it was not permanent. We have listened to that here too. It was criticised for the fact that, when it was not permanent, some stop and go actions would be taken. This means that people were reconditioned and deducted for it, but did not get it done at the times when they could not be deducted for it. We have listened to that and that is why the scheme has now been made permanent. We think this is very positive. In addition, it gets the design it originally had, so it is services and craftsman services such as: renovation of the house and other activities covered by the scheme. This makes the system less bureaucratic. We also think that is positive. In addition to this, one of the other tax proposals from the Finance Act that we are discussing today is that we abolish tax on free telephone and the Internet. I do not think anyone has missed that in the debate, so I shall not dwell on that. We also increase the amount limits for deposits into a child savings fund. We think this is positive, because it gives you a greater incentive to help your children better on their way into life and to give them a better opportunity to get started on their own when they leave home. We really think it is positive that parents and grandparents have an incentive to do so. In addition, we are abolishing the temporary compensatory tax on large pension payments. It has now served its purpose, which is why we are abolishing it from 2018. All in all, all the elements of the bill make it cheaper, easier and safer to be a Dane, and on that basis the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181007	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181012	I'm just going to have to comment on the fact that this was supposed to prevent undeclared work. If we look at the analysis that has previously been made in the Treasury by the consulting house Damvad, we can see the importance in relation to undeclared work. And there's only 5%. of those who receive support from the scheme, who say that if they had not received support from the housing job scheme, they would have had the work done black. Only 5%. Well, that's not very much, can't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181047	I doubt that there are quite a lot of people who, if they are called by someone who does the investigation for the Treasury, want to say that they get things done black. I simply believe that there is no incentive to answer anything other than that there will be no blackmail. So I do not believe that this is a study that can be used for so much, and I think we have seen many studies that have said otherwise. If you just talk to ordinary people, if you talk to craft masters and others, the answer is clear: it removes a great deal of black work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181115	I would just like to say that it is a little more evidence-based to start with a report made by the Treasury than in the conversations that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm has with random master craftsmen. I just have to say that only 5%. say that they would have had the work done black had there not been a housing job scheme. And then I just have to say that it is not very much. You can argue that you want to create a housing job scheme because you want to give a tax rebate to those who have the most paid by some of those who earn less and have the least. You can do that. I think you should be honest about that, but to say that you are doing this because it prevents undeclared work is just factually wrong, because nothing is documenting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181156	It is certainly not factually wrong. I am well aware that from the red block people want to hang themselves on a report in which an analysis institute on behalf of the Treasury has called around and asked the Danes if they would get things done black unless they were deducted. Let me just say that we must also assess whether we believe in the studies being carried out. One can judge whether one thinks that they are made on a right-wing basis. I don't think it was a fair investigation that was done then. I don't trust it. And when I look at what else has been of studies, what I have received from figures from all sorts other than Damvad, I just have to say that there is a very clear tendency for this to counteract undeclared work. I also have to say that this is the clear picture I get from the people I've been talking to. In fact, I think that people should also be listened to. You shouldn't just listen to experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181240	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181244	On a purely factual level, in relation to the housing job scheme, everything is wrong with Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's speech, and I think you know that too. We also know very well that this is a very popular proposal, which is why it was marketed until the last parliamentary elections, and then it has to be implemented now, and hopefully it will have to save the Prime Minister once again. But there is simply no basis at all for the arguments that are being used about the housing job scheme. One criticises a study which the Treasury itself has cost, which uses a question methodology, which also forms the basis of the work done by the Rockwool Foundation, which is also investigated in this way by asking people. After all, this is the research that the Treasury has been using for decades to investigate undeclared work. As far as the facts are concerned, I think that everything is wrong with Mrs Louise Schack Elholm's speech when it comes to the housing job scheme. It's easy to figure out what this is all about. I would like to talk a little more about the taxation of free telephones and the Internet, because I think this is an example of how the government would rather implement the kind of tax relief that quite precisely benefits the more prosperous groups than spending the same money on, for example. elderly care, day care or schools. Wouldn't the money be better spent on the elderly than on the tax relief for typically more wealthy Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181400	As I started by mentioning, unlike the previous Socialist Government, we are investing extra money both in the elderly and in health and in core welfare with this Finance Act. So we are actually doing exactly the opposite of what the Socialists did when they had the power. We're actually investing in welfare. But there is actually so much money in it that we can also invest in tax cuts. And yes, it is absolutely true what I said about the housing job scheme. The Social Democrats' rapporteur said that an idea could be seen in the housing job scheme if it focused on services, but then it is just fun that when we proposed a housing job scheme based on services, the Social Democrats were also opposed. I simply do not understand that. And when the Social Democrat rapporteur had to respond to that, the rapporteur refused to reply, but instead attacked me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181454	No, what I said right away in my speech was actually that there could have been some sense in that, but also on that point we would rather spend the money on welfare. I actually said that in my speech. I haven't refused to answer anything. However, Mrs Schack Elholm is not concerned with the priority that is being given here, where we would rather favour some well-off groups by ending a general fiscal principle that wages, which also come into other kinds of goods, are taxed. It happens to be some of the same groups that one would like to have favoured with lower top tax; one could not get through with that, and then it will be through this detour. That money was better spent on the elderly, as Mrs Louise Schack Elholm is today standing up and pretending that she has a very special veneration for, because it should have something to do with the housing job scheme. If you want to help the elderly, then you have to ensure that there is proper funding for care for the elderly, home care, etc. Instead, you spend the money to make this tax relief. Then Mrs Louise Schack Elholm will have to check her history books: there was no zero growth in the last parliamentary term. So on this point too one is wrong in his speech; it is becoming a habit in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181557	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181558	This is starting to be quite funny. In other words, it has to be said that the rapporteur is simply not listening to what I am saying. I have repeatedly said that we are investing in the elderly. You don't take money from the elderly when you put more money into it, do you? We can just afford both more welfare and tax relief. It seems to me that it is well-being to give money both for the increase in welfare and for the appropriations which the Social Democrats' rapporteur here is talking so warmly about all of a sudden, and that we also, for example, are talking about. gets some help at home and gets some subsidies for it in the form of a housing job scheme, which allows you to get help with cleaning and gardening. I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181640	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181643	In the alternative, we can see many sensible things in this proposal. We cannot blow and have flour in our mouths, and we have very ambitious thoughts on, among other things. the climate area, so we have to basically say no to the media, because we want to spend the money elsewhere, and that is also in relation to another redistribution. We have previously supported a housing job scheme, and then it was a green housing job scheme. We made a lot of sense that it was supposed to be green. Then it may be that some said it wasn't green enough for it to make sense, but we thought it did. But when I look at the proposal here and also some of the consultation answers, there are some things that have come out that were just part of this green impact on behaviour. I can read out that this is, of course, part of a political process, and it was something about funding where it was not possible to include everything. If there had been money for it, would you have taken electric plugs and intelligent heat and ventilation and light management analyses and systems, i.e. these green elements that have now been taken out? The hearings also ask why they really are. Would you have liked it if there had been an economy for it, or is it a political signal that electric cars are not the future when you take things like that out? It seems a little funny when we have a problem getting electric cars to drive in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181752	Let me start by thanking the alternative for the responsible way in which negotiations were conducted after the last parliamentary elections, where you just entered and got a housing job scheme, which then also had the twist that the alternative wanted, precisely in the greener direction. The SF also helped to do that. That's why we got a green housing job scheme. But what the government burned a lot for was the service part, that's what we played out with sorry, I'm not government, but on the Left side we played out with a weight on the service part, because that's what we thought was most important. And we have ended up with that in the form that is, and it is clear that there has been a debate, and there is the crucial thing, of course, with whom we have negotiated, as to what the system will look like in the end. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has also said that they attached importance to the craft sector. That is why it has been designed. If we had made a deal with others, it might have looked different. It did that the last time we made a deal. That's why it looks like it does. For our first priority were the service industries, and Dansk Folkeparti had a second priority, and they are our contractual partner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181851	So, if it had been possible, would the Left have had, for example, the motivation for electric cars included in an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181901	Our priority is clearly the service industries. But it is clear that if the alternative had again voted, we would have listened to the wishes of the alternative in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181911	Thank you, Mrs Schack Elholm, for today's work. And then we would like to welcome Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313181933	This bill contains three of the most inequitable proposals from the 2018 Finance Act. You make the housing job scheme permanent, and we are opposed to this by Enhedslisten, because it is a gift to the well-off who can already afford cleaning and buying craft services. It costs about 1⁄2 billion. kr. per year, and the richest 10%. scores 30%. of the tax rebate. Tax on free telephones will also be abolished from 2020 onwards, and it is also primarily the wealthy who benefit from the tax reduction. That will cost 440 million by 2020. kr. Again it is the richest who grab the tax rebate; the richest 10%. Actually, it takes 40%. of the tax debate here. Then it will happen that the compensatory tax, which is a tax on particularly high pensions, will be phased out earlier. It should actually have been phased out by 2020, but it will be brought forward and it will cost 100 million. kr. in 2018 and 60 million; kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For those with large pension payments, there are very large tax concessions in kroner and ear, and it is extremely unevenly distributed. The 1 300 people who have payments over 1 million. kr., gets an average tax relief of DKK 24,000. The richest 10%. grabs more than 80%. of the tax rebate, and the richest one percent gets approx. 30% Of this tax discount. It is an anti-social proposal, and it has to be said that if there is anyone in this Parliament who would think that there is nothing called class struggle anymore, then you just have to say that it is there. Because it's being taken from above. It is being led by those parties that, as a consequence of this bill, take from those who have the least and give to those who have the most. This is a class struggle in which Enhedslisten does not intend to participate, and that is why we are of course going to vote against this bill. It is also the case that, in addition to the three proposals I have just mentioned, there is also a proposal on child savings and self-retirement accounts and, as far as we can see, there is no substantive change to the rules on self-retirement accounts. However, in relation to child savings, the change is, of course, that the maximum amount of deposits on child savings accounts is doubled, which means that the maximum annual deposit is increased to DKK 6,000. from DKK 3,000 and that the maximum deposit is increased to DKK 72,000 from DKK 36,000. So there is the possibility of paying much more money on child savings, and then you just have to say that this will mean that resourceful parents can send their children well on the way. You could say it's change. It costs after rewinding less than 5 million. kr. Up to 2024 where it becomes 5 million. kr. increasing to 6 million. kr. in 2025, but it is still an increased saving opportunity for the resourceful parents paid by the common fund, where we all deposit. So that is not something we can support. In any case, this does not alter the fact that the draft law as a whole, of course, is not something that Enhedslisten can support at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182315	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. No one was praying for short remarks, so we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182332	Thank you, sir. President. The proposal here implements a number of the good tax reliefs agreed in the context of the 2018 Finance Act. These are the removal of tax on free telephone, a permanent housing scheme, the abolition of the last remaining tax on compensation and the possibility of making greater child savings. In the Liberal Alliance we always think it is positive when you lighten the tax on working Danes. In particular, we have had a great desire to do something about the rather high and grotesque taxation of employer-paid telephones. In our view, it is not a specific consumer benefit when, at the same time, for most people, it is associated with being available outside normal office hours. One might even argue that it would not be particularly favourable for some to have such an employer-paid telephone at all. In any case, however, we do not think it is very good to tax an instrument of work, and we are therefore very pleased that it is now being abolished. It was also part of our 2025 plan, just as it was the abolition of the last remaining compensatory tax. So, all in all, we are very pleased with this bill, which is why we naturally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182457	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182500	As the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, was on the platform, he said it was the right way to make tax cuts. There are three proposals: the housing job scheme, where approx. 30% by the tax rebate is caught by the 10%. The richest, free telephone, where approx. 40% by the tax rebate is caught by the 10%. the richest, and the faster phasing out of the compensatory tax, where little over 80%. by the tax rebate is caught by the 10%. The richest. If I have to ask the Liberal Alliance, what is the right way to make tax cuts if we are to look at it in terms of distribution? Is it the housing job scheme, where only 30%. of the tax rebate goes to the 10%. It is the free telephone where it is 40%, or it is the compensation tax where over 80%. of the tax rebate goes to the 10%. The richest?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182557	Well, we think all tax cuts are good tax cuts. That's how they're 10 percent. In Denmark, the richest pay almost a third of all income taxes. They contribute generously to the Danish Treasury. The 10%. The poorest do not contribute very much to the Danish Treasury and that is quite fine, I have no problem with that, I think everyone should pay less in tax. But here we have some taxes that are unreasonable, for example. Honey on the free phone. It is not very sensible to tax a working tool. The removal of taxes will also mean that there will be more people, more employees, who will have an employer-paid telephone. It will be much more people with lower incomes, and those under the Enhedslisten therefore not that they also get a share in what some think is a good thing. In relation to the compensatory tax, we do not think that taxing people who save extra money for pensions is particularly sensible. Of course, there is a connection between having a high income and high pension payments, but it is not one by one. There are also people who have more normal incomes who choose to set aside a lot for their retirement, and we do not think that should be extra heavily taxed. Nor is this a very sensible way of taxing redistribution. Then there is the housing job scheme, and it is no secret that it is not an idea that has grown in our garden. We think that money could then be used more sensibly to reduce some of the more distorting taxes, for example. top tax or registration fee. That would be more economical. However, it is the case in agreements that another rapporteur also said that they are giving and taking, and here we have given.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182751	What I'm trying to fish for is which distribution profile is actually the most ideal for the Liberal Alliance. I mean, is this the right way to make tax cuts? Now I am well aware of the Liberal Alliance's position on the housing job scheme, which has nevertheless been chosen to be accepted as part of the government. Is it in relation to the compensation tax that we are closest to the distribution profile that the Liberal Alliance would like, or is it in relation to the free telephone, where it is in goose eyes only 40%. of the tax rebate, which goes to the 10%. The richest? You could also mention that one percent actually scores 30%. of the tax rebate granted in relation to the compensatory tax. Is it something that warms the hearts of the Liberal Alliance that there is that distribution or how do you view it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182838	But that is not at all the view, the premise we use when we want to reduce taxes. There is no particular desire for those with high incomes to pay less in tax. We take the view that it is quite reasonable and fair that if you have a high income, you pay more in tax than if you have a low income. Of course it has to be that way. But in Denmark you don't just pay more in tax when you have a high income, in kroner and penny, you also pay more in tax, and I don't think that's very fair. I think the fair thing is that everyone pays a certain percentage of their income in taxes. That's the fair thing. That is how everyone contributes equally, and it is also the most sensible. There are many of the taxes we have that are simply socio-economically unreasonable, and we would like to lower them. And it is with the premise that we are going into tax discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182933	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313182942	During this week, many of us parliamentary politicians have been travelling. Several have been on committee trips and have been given perspective in all sorts of different areas. I myself have been on a vacation; it was more like a family perspective I got. It was also on the account of the state that I did it, so it's different how we choose to prioritize and then hopefully I'll work at another time. It made sense to me, and it has probably also made sense to a great many of my colleagues who have gone and learned something about how to do in other countries, so that you can come back here to the Folketing and then do something sensible. You don't have to invent the deep plate every time. Something very sensible often happens in the world. The reason I started by saying this is that I might have wanted to cut some of the elements in the bill in the middle of it, because we disagree with the distribution policy behind it. On the other hand, as several rapporteurs have said, there are also some who are relatively small in the redistribution, and that is why it may not be so violent. On the other hand, some of them are relatively large. So are we supposed to say that it's horrible to give a free phone? I mean, it's certainly not something we're going to vote for. So it can be said that we certainly disagree with that. On the other hand, I myself said before that we supported a green housing job scheme a few years ago, where we thought that there was enough green in it to say yes to some other things that we perhaps did not agree with. So I'm not going to say it's silly to grant this tax credit; I just want to say that we're against it in the alternative. And it's from this perspective that I think we should be really good at working with us in the Alternative, too, to try to see how we can actually get those who disagree with us, in the people and in the other parties to think that what we are saying is sensible. Because if we want to make a green transition and would like to have included in this bill more greener in the housing job scheme that is now becoming permanent, then perhaps we should have been out lobbying better towards the government too, in relation to maintaining the elements which are also being said in the consultation answers: why not maintain them? Why doesn't one want, for example, reinforced grass so that the water can seep through the surface that you get in your driveway as one of the things you can get deducted from? Why do we not want what I think was intelligent, heat-saving analyses, for which we are no longer getting them? I mean, if we really should have done our job well, I should have been in there lobbying to get those parts and go along with this deal. But we cannot do that because, overall, we simply think that at this point in Denmark we do not need to make this growth-enhancing effort, which the housing job scheme is so much up to. We are somewhere else, as several of my fellow rapporteurs have said before. I think it was the Social Democrats who said that it is somewhere else that we are standing today. This is not what we need, and that is why we are also saying 'no' to the whole legislative proposal. Then I think we should just say that Danish politics is actually becoming quite fragmented again, in relation to the fact that in some camps very much is spoken of tax relief as something quite clearly good. And I would say that if I am offered a tax relief or an opportunity to make extra money, I will almost always say yes. So I think there is such a need for us to lay down some lines here from political teams, which are that it is not oneself that is closest to oneself and that one does not have the opportunity to be oneself almost all the time, but rather to think about whether we have the health care, whether we have the public system, whether it is meaningful to go to work, whether it is meaningful to start a business here at home. If that's the case, I'm sure you don't care if you get off the phone. Then I think I'll agree with you. Joachim B. Olsen says that there are many people who really should be rewarded for having a free phone, because come on, it's pushing people out on the labour market. So we say no to the bill here, but I would also say that there are sensible elements in it. Conversely, we just think that we should put forward a political debate that does not talk about tax relief being clearly of the good. That is not what our welfare society is built on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313183332	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There are no brief comments. Welcome to another person from Silkeborg and surroundings, sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313183343	The bill here is, of course, part of the government's financial agreement with the Danish People's Party, which is why it may not come as a surprise that we in the Radical Left do not support the bill. The money in the Finance Act is among other things. found by saving on some of the weakest here in Denmark and in the world in terms of savings on cash assistance and development assistance. A great deal of money has also been found by making very large annual savings on the entire education system ranging from vocational schools to universities. Then you give it in tax cuts in a way that does not create very many new jobs or very much development. From our point of view, it is crying out to heaven that our children can now have a greater child savings without paying tax on interest rates, but in return they may find that their schools, their vocational schools, their higher education are being significantly reduced because savings are being made. This seems to us to be a completely wrong priority both on behalf of our children and on behalf of the future of our society. When we look at the tax cuts that are given, it simply gives too little when it comes to jobs and employment. I think it is a waste of money, and I think it is the most ideological thing to say just that taxes have been reduced so that we can all get a little more money, but the effect on creating new jobs is virtually zero. If we take this permanent housing job scheme, as it is so technically called, what most people call the craftsman's allowance, it is now fairly well illustrated, even by the ministries themselves, that it does not create very many new jobs because people had made the investments anyway, and what we do is get people to move their consumption from, for example. shops and restaurants, hotels, whatever it may be, to construction companies. It is, of course, good for the construction companies, but overall it does not give them any new jobs that they will be created in one place instead of another. It's the same with free phones and this tax relief on pension savings. It simply gives too little development, and that is why we think it is a waste of money, and we think that the money has been found in some places where social problems are made bigger both in Denmark and in the world, and we cut our education system, which is what we have to live on. So we cannot support the bill, nor the Finance Act, but there is little surprise in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313183614	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313183629	I agree with those of my fellow Members who have said that these very different elements combined in one legislative proposal actually represent some of the most inequality that has occurred recently in this area in relation to, of course, the housing job scheme, in relation to free telephone and the Internet, the compensation tax and then the increase in the child savings limit. I would just like to say a few words about the various elements. As far as the housing job scheme is concerned, we, like the alternative, helped to create the green housing job scheme two and a half years ago. We did so because we thought that some industries could still use this scheme in terms of growth and employment, but, of course, very much in order to boost energy renovations, boost the green transition to people's houses, in terms of achieving different actions. And we are completely behind this. The green one has chosen to take out completely of this. There are some elements which, of course, Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten has also mentioned a biased distribution profile. The same could be said, in part, of the green housing job scheme, but there was the primary argument and reason why we were involved in it, to get energy renovations started, and that is what we are aiming for. But now we have overheating in a number of sectors, and we are making a scheme that has no environmental or climate effects, but which is so beneficial to the most prosperous. And the same can be said of the child's savings. Who will benefit from an increase in the limit? Well, it's the people who are, and it's good for them to be able to afford to put this money aside for their children. And a lot of others don't. This isn't about the fact that you can't understand how happy it is for people who have theirs on the dry economics. This is about the fact that, step by step, and these four elements are quite central to the fact that, what to say, privatisation of some of the welfare that has been public, namely, that the money cannot be spent twice; we are spending it on tax cuts, and that benefits some people's private economy, and at the same time there is just less money for public spending, for welfare. We can also see it with the business agreement that was made in the autumn. It was also quite unbalanced in terms of distribution policy, and that is how it is step by step. We can see it in the car sector in relation to the registration fee. The policy pursued by the government has virtually all aspects of a biased distribution profile. And we think that's too bad. Under what some call the policy of necessity, we often hear that there is no afford for one thing or another and that now we have to ensure coherence in revenue and expenditure. That is quite right, but it is a clear political choice, which will then be spent on our money. And that is where we think it is really a pity that, in line with the rapporteur of the Radicals, we are saying that we are now spending some money on raising the limit on what you can set aside for child savings, when at the same time we see that there are day institutions where there are far too few educators for children, that there are schools that are not being renovated etc., under the heading that there is no money to invest in our common welfare. My colleague Mr. Rune Lund mentioned the imbalance in the distribution profile in each area, and I shall not repeat that. I just want to say that we cannot in any way support this confusion of various proposals, and we therefore think that it is a sad development that we are in with this government, that we do not want to invest in our common welfare, in our public servants, in our day institutions, in our schools, and instead spend the money on those who already have theirs on the dry. It not only creates an economic gulf between the citizens of this country, but it is also a time to tamper with what is sometimes called cohesion. And we're very worried about that in the SF, so we can't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313184135	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and welcome to Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313184144	Thank you very much. The bill, as several speakers have said, is the implementation of the financial law agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party. It is a very good agreement and therefore, of course, it is also a very good legislative proposal. The first thing I would like to mention is the permanentisation of the housing job scheme, which allows for example. to carry out domestic service tasks. It can be something like cleaning or childcare or something like that. In fact, we in the Conservatives think this is very sensible, because it will help to increase family profits and make families more able to prioritise their time, while at the same time creating jobs for those who may otherwise not be in the labour market today, or some who may be able to gain a foothold in the labour market through that route. Another important element of the bill is the proposal to raise the limit for deposits into child savings, i.e. to increase it from the current DKK 3000. and then up to 6,000 kroner. annual. The ceiling on the amount to be paid in has not been adjusted since 1999 and therefore the value of the deposits has gradually deteriorated. In fact, during the same period, interest rates have also fallen a lot, and this means that the benefits of saving up for your children and grandchildren have been gradually eroded. So from the conservative side, we are very pleased that the ceiling will be doubled so that parents and grandparents will have better opportunities to save up for their children's future. The last thing I want to mention in the proposal is about free telephone, and of course the Conservative People's Party also supports that. We think it is unreasonable and hasty for employees who show special flexibility to have an employer-paid telephone, in other words to be at the disposal of the employer at odd times. It causes trouble if you have to carry two phones or have to return your phone when you leave work. It is simply an unnecessary bureaucracy and it helps to reduce employees' desire to be flexible in the end, it is a matter of reducing the taxation of business flexibility. Developments in the labour market have led many to work both at work and at home and on their way to and from the workplace and elsewhere. In Denmark we need that flexibility and we need some who can and will work flexibly. That is why it is happy, we think, that we are now getting rid of this extra tax on an actual tool of work and on those employees who show flexibility. With these words, I should just like to say that, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313184422	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and we will be delighted to see the tax minister on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313184436	There was a little more debate on this proposal. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who said that there had been such a little debate on the budget. I welcome that on a Tuesday night here. In my answer, however, I will, as a starting point, stick to what the bill is about, but if there are any questions relating to the Finance Act, I would be happy to answer them and defend the excellent financial law that the government has concluded with the Danish People's Party. Thank you for the comments on the bill. Fortunately, there is a majority in favour of the draft law and a positive view of it. This will create joy for a great many Danes, especially those who are in the labour market. In fact, the bill translates the tax concessions in the personal field agreed with the 2018 Finance Act. It is tax relief that includes areas that affect a great many Danes. I am pleased that we are thus granting tax relief, not to a small wealthy group, as Mr. Rune Lund mentioned, but a broad group of Danish citizens. We help busy families in everyday life by making the housing job scheme permanent. At the same time, energy renovation and the establishment of well-functioning broadband connections will continue to be attractive. We help employees who, for tax purposes, have to carry two mobile phones, one for work-related conversations and one for private conversations, by tax-free telephones. Those who have only one phone and are taxed by that phone then get rid of the tax and thus receive tax relief. It is a tax relief for a large proportion of the population who are in the labour market. It is basically very good to reduce the taxation of people working. What we get out of it is hopefully that people work a little more. This leads to tax reductions for a broad group of employees and self-employed workers. And, as the Conservatives' rapporteur also said, we are increasing the opportunities for parents and grandparents to give children or grandchildren a good financial start to independent adulthood by increasing the limits on child savings, which have not been regulated for many years. Finally, we are also finally granting tax relief to a not insignificant number of pensioners by bringing forward the abolition of the compensatory tax. If I have to deal with the criticism that has then been made by a number of parties in the Chamber, I must turn to the comments that are made about the fact that this is the implementation of a financial law which takes away from the poor and gives to the rich, the Robin Hood argument, which is heard time and time again from the left. If you read the entire Finance Act, and if you read this bill, you will see that there is more money, and also quite a lot more money, for welfare areas, for the elderly, for health, which is a very central area, and there is money to reduce taxes in selected areas, among other things. the initiatives described here. So the picture that the government is taking from the most vulnerable pushes them into poverty and into the social mass grave you can almost hear Villy Søvndal when he was at his highest before he entered a subsequent government and could not translate the scare picture into reality, fortunately it is not right. It was not true what Villy Søvndal said at the time about the economic policy of the former VK government, namely that it led to a social mass grave, that it was a choice between welfare and tax relief. The criticism made by the left of the Finance Act was not right then, and it is not right now either. There is both money for increased welfare and money to lower taxes. Then you can discuss where to spend the money in welfare areas. It is also possible to discuss where to lower taxes and legitimate political discussions, but the idea that we cannot both ensure a proper foundation under the welfare society and better welfare, that we cannot afford to give more money to care for the elderly and to health, while lowering taxes, among other things. It is simply incorrect to set up a housing job scheme at work or to set up a housing job scheme. I'd like to put that picture on the ground. Then it is true, as several people have also said, that you can only spend money once. If you spend 400 million, you'd have to. kr. In the case of a permanentisation of the housing job scheme, the other 400 million will be added. kr. in addition to the billions agreed by the government with the Danish People's Party for the elderly area and for health care in the Finance Act. It is absolutely true that money can only be spent once, but there is money in the Finance Act for both, and I think that is something we owe to say in relation to the criticism that comes from the left. Then there is a criticism of the housing job scheme. We're gonna make the housing job plan permanent now. I would have liked to have seen a housing job scheme that was more similar to the Swedish one and with a higher rate of deduction. By the way, that's what the government was playing out with. We have negotiated a good housing job scheme together with the Danish People's Party, and we are permanentising the housing job scheme, which has lived a somewhat tumultuous life. That's right, sir. Jesper Petersen said that the Social Democrats supported the housing job scheme when it was an economic tool, but now with the permanentisation we get a tool that allows us, when we need it, to increase the rate of deduction, to increase the amount, and in this way we have a business environment tool that is in the toolbox, and we are at least beyond this zigzag course with the fact that then we have a housing job scheme that applies for one or two years, and then it has to disappear again. We now have a permanentisation, and I therefore hope that, even if you are opposed to the scheme, you will not abolish it again if the majority change, because we need peace of mind on the housing job scheme. The housing job scheme helps to limit undeclared work. Then we can discuss some of the studies that lie there, and I think it is undoubtedly the case that, when it comes to the service part, there is an empiri for the housing job scheme to help reduce black work. When it comes to the craft part, there is less empiri for it. I personally take the view that the housing employment scheme on both the craft sector and the service sector helps to make undeclared work white and is therefore an argument for the scheme. However, one of the main arguments for the scheme, which I would like to highlight here in the end, is also about credibility, and it is about my own party that we have come to the vote on wanting to make the housing job scheme permanent. If we had not done so, the very same politicians who are now criticising us for introducing the system would criticise us for running out of our electoral vows, and in this way we are a little trapped, and therefore the only thing that is right is that what we say before the elections is also delivered afterwards. We are doing this with this proposal, and I am, of course, pleased as Left and Tax Minister on behalf of the whole government. Well, I look forward to a constructive discussion of the proposal and, of course, a subsequent debate on both the proposal and the broad financial law, if the rapporteurs present in the Chamber so wish. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185233	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185237	It's just in relation to the tax minister's remarks that this should benefit such broad sections of the population. You just have to say that those who have the most and earn the most are the ones who make the most of this. This can be clearly seen from the answers that the Minister of Taxation has given me to the questions I have asked about this. Well, the 10%. The richest grab 30%. of the income, of the tax rebate in relation to the housing job scheme. It's crooked, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185308	Well, we've had this discussion many times. As I understand Enhedslisten's tax policy, we want to increase taxation. That is to say, almost per year. definition is against any proposal from the government, where you lighten the tax on something or introduce a deduction. If we were finally to agree to something, I am left with the impression that the only ones that Enhedslisten could accept from tax cuts are some where they are targeted at a particular low-income group. If you only give a targeted tax relief there, you will find it very difficult to make a tax relief that makes the social cake bigger, because then we will have what is called a negative job offer. That is why we want to reduce taxes in general. It typically means that if you lighten a tax as a percentage, you get a greater relief if you earn more. You can't change that. Those numbers, sir. Rune Lund mentions, I have no reason to challenge, but if you attack it in another way, you could also say that half of the approx. 415,000 persons using the deduction have an annual income of less than DKK 350,000. And if you make 350,000, you certainly don't belong to the very richest people in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185430	Well, that doesn't change how the proceeds are distributed, and it's as flabby as the answers given by the tax minister show. It is true, however, that we want to make a tax restructuring that provides a tax reduction for those who have the least, i.e. for income of up to 350,000, and then we want to step it down. Then I know that the Ministry of Finance has such a tax calculator, which says that when you make such a targeted tax reduction and give people who earn a little, more money between their hands, which, moreover, we will pay for by raising the tax for those who have the most • and thus make the socially fair • it will result in a negative supply of labour and thus a socio-economic minus. It's an absurd calculator that counts that way. It is simply designed to give tax reductions to those who earn the most and to support the way in which the government conducts economic policy. It just underlines what kind of calculator it is that's supposed to be in the Ministry of Finance. It must be opened up and discussed, there must be transparency, and it must be clarified so that we can have an economic debate which is detached from the way in which the calculator is screwed up to do in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185546	The last point I basically agree with, sir. Rune Lund i, namely the question of transparency. I want the Treasury to be transparent about how we calculate revenue estimates. What we should then just be honest about telling each other is that everything is an estimate and that if we spend all our political time and capital discussing methods of calculation, we will never get to the political discussion. So, basically, I think it is very sensible to have officials who are party-politically neutral and who count on the best possible basis from the research and the empire that applies. Then there must be an opportunity to see how to calculate and also take a discussion about it. But you have to be very careful not to politicize the way you figure. In relation to Rune Lund's criticism of the Ministry of Finance, I can say that there are others on the right and also in my own party who criticise the Ministry of Finance for not counting on high enough dynamic effects. So the Ministry of Finance is a little caught between a criticism from the right and from the left about how to calculate, and that is why there is something to be said for the fact that you may have landed on what is probably a middle estimate of how to calculate dynamic effects and other political proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185655	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185703	I do not want to conjure up the social mass grave and say that our society will collapse if we do these things instead of doing what we say. But as it is with everything in economic policy, this is, after all, a prioritising discussion about what it is that you want to take, what it is that you want to spend money on and how to collect it, and this I think is an example of how there are some political things that divide the waters. After all, the government cannot live up to public growth, as the government itself says it is necessary to have if you are to be able to keep up with population development when it comes to more elderly people and more children being translated into Danish: the tasks are growing in relation to caring for the elderly, the tasks are also growing in relation to the number of children we need to have some good day care institutions for. We think we should solve these tasks and be sure that we can solve them before we look at whether there is any room for tax relief. The government is doing this the other way around, and that is the priority that we disagree with. I would just like to ask the Minister of Taxation to confirm that more than a billion is being seized here. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. So what is really being taken up is the part of the room reserved for the future's welfare, which is therefore taken out of what could have gone to strengthen the service of e.g. the elderly area, day-care centres, and what else we have talked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185835	Well, I can at least confirm that you can only spend the money once. What I am defending myself against is the argument that we cannot afford both to improve our welfare society and to live up to demographic pressure. There's a little discussion about how big this is. If we solve the challenge of integration and stop the influx, on which the government has delivered, demographic pressure in the future will be reduced, so there is more money for other things. However, even with the financial law, the tax agreement we have made, there is a room for manoeuvre which I understand, as far as I am aware, can hold demographic pressure up to 2025, which is why both tax reductions and more money for the elderly and for health are available here, and that is also reflected in the Finance Act, and I think that is something that we ought to acknowledge. One might then say that we would rather have given these tax cuts in some other areas or that we would rather have given even more money to health, but I think it is due to acknowledge that we actually have a financial law that affords both.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313185936	At least there's some arrangements going on there. To some extent, the government has suffered too much from making a few tight municipal agreements and taking some money from the municipalities, and then you give it to them again a few months later in the Finance Act, and then you are the sender instead of the municipalities. Sometimes there's a bit of fiction in that. However, it is true that from the overall economic space there is also a little more than what it will require to keep up with population development. It's just not government policy. In other words, the government's policy is to devote only half of what its own calculations actually require, and we are not living up to it with the agreements you make to ensure that there is a proper service. It must then be my only appeal that every time you come across cases of older people being too long in the same diaper or again having some failings in the health service, you just think and say: we might not have solved all the problems, but there are actually 1 billion. kr., well and well, from this bill that could be used and do more good over there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313190047	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313190048	When the government has a desire for growth in the public sector to be restrained, it rests on such a basic assumption that what we live on is not the public sector, because it is the private sector that finances our welfare society. We would like to spend some money on good terms for private jobs and job creation in the private sector, because it secures the welfare society in the future, and it is from a political desire that we should make the social cake bigger. Because if we make the social cake bigger, we will be richer, and in the long run there will also be more money for welfare. So if we spend money on increasing the economy, there will also be more money in dollars and dollars for a large public sector, and that is the policy we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313190144	Thank you, Minister. There is no one else who would like to make a brief comment. As no one else has asked for the floor, the negotiations have ended. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Treasury Department... Excuse me! Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313190207	The debate is open, and Mr. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party is already ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313190235	Thank you. The purpose of the bill is to translate parts of the business package, the "Agreement on Enterprise and Entrepreneurship Initiatives," concluded between the Government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. We disagree with some parts of that package. After all, we have been asking for such a thing for a long time and wish that it was something that had been a will on the part of the government to make a broad agreement. In fact, we have long been asking for new initiatives to strengthen growth and employment. An agreement has been drawn up that should not be broad, and we are very keen on some of the elements and not so hot on others, and some of the proposals from there come with this bill. The DIS scheme is also extended to a number of special ships, the registration fee on ships is removed and the seaman's allowance is limited to seafarers on Danish registered ships or EU or EEA ships. The government proposes to raise the limit on the proportion of employees' wages that can be paid as employee shares for income tax, and it is proposed to increase and use the interest from the advance tax to finance the business package and the agreement on strengthened tax control and guidance that we are involved in and which we have been pushing for a long time to obtain. So there are many different elements in it, and I would like to say that, as I said, we welcome some of the measures in the business package. We are not so fond of funding where, among other things, there are. A great deal of money comes from the area of employment. However, if we concentrate on the DIS scheme, there is something positive to emphasise. For the bill includes an extension of the DIS scheme, which will ensure that we have Danish employment for different types of seafarers, and it will then be extended to a number of special ships. It is basically a state aid scheme for the maritime sector. The scheme allows shipowners to pay net tax-free fees to the seafarers covered by the scheme and the current scheme includes vessels for the transport of passengers or goods, tugs and salvage vessels and cable-laying vessels. The tonnage tax scheme has then been extended to a number of new activities, including: wind turbine and construction ships. Not least, it is something that fills the part of the country I come from, namely the South Jutland, and Mr. Henning Hyllested, who enters the Assembly Hall right now, has worked at Esbjerg Harbour, how much of this work is going on. It is the offshore industry, that is, an industry that is important to us and that is growing, and where we as a society and as a country must also ensure that we can maintain and strengthen the competitiveness of the Danish offshore sector in the global market, support the industry, so that we can be among the world's leading players, and ensure that where the industry develops and expands, Danish employees and Danish companies are also strengthened. That is why we have been anxious for a long time about extending the DIS scheme, which is being proposed here. It has just been important to us that there is a right for professional organisations to negotiate agreements for employees. This commitment has been made in the business package, and now I quote: "It must be ensured that the extension of the DIS scheme follows the work of the social partners, so that a model of agreement is drawn up for ships which primarily carry out the activities currently covered on the Danish base. The agreement is intended to ensure collective coverage and arranged conditions in the labour market. We need to see that here in the bill. I know that a letter has been sent by Danske Metal and Danske Rederier, the shipping association, who are calling for this, and so they have found a way that they think it can be done. We would like to support this, and I hope that the Minister will give a commitment that he agrees that the safeguarding of professional rights and the orderly relationship between employers and employees in this area should be achieved. In that case, we support this extension and will, on that basis, also vote in favour of the bill, as well as in favour of the changes to the daily rate on taxes not paid and with which parts of the tax control agreement of November have been financed. So in this way we are actually pleased with the extension of the DIS scheme, which is why we would also like to vote in favour of it, even if we are not in the business package. Although we see various problems, including the financing of them, this is something that we would like to support. One last thing I can mention is that the seaman's allowance is restricted to ships with EU or EEA flags, as opposed to the old system that applied to all seafarers. Some critical consultation responses have been given, including: from Danish Metal, which does not think it appropriate and that it will be a problem for Danish employees working on ships registered under another flag. There should probably have been more growth in government in relation to the fact that there is a dispute with the Commission as to whether this is contrary to the State aid scheme, and there we would have liked the government to fight a little harder for the Commission to approve the new five-year period of this scheme. It has existed before Denmark joined the Community and should be possible to extend. So it should be such a critical point in relation to an otherwise positive take on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313190804	Thank you. There were no brief comments. So we say thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen, and welcome to Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313190812	Thank you. L 174 is, after all, the implementation of an agreement on business and entrepreneurial initiatives that the government has made with us in the Danish People's Party and Radical Left. So this proposal is about the possibility of more employee shares. You go from being able to get 10%. of its annual salary to 20%, well to feel if 80%. of the employees receive the offer. That's quite excellent. Then the DIS system will be extended to include ships other than those currently in existence. One of the things I thought was nice was that there were ice-handling ships. I guess that's icebreakers, but I thought the word was nice. All of this, of course, is done to maintain and strengthen the competitiveness of the Danish offshore sector. Then there is a point about abolishing the registration fee for ships in Danish ship registers. I am sure that will also help us to get more ships with Danish flags, and that is quite excellent. We're in all of this. Then there is one thing that has been included in the proposal, but we are not part of it, and it is here with the seaman's allowance that is being changed so that it is limited to seafarers working on Danish or foreign ships registered in EU or EEA Member States. I have to admit, when I saw it, I had a little bit of a twist, because it's very clear. It is so nice that it is not part of this agreement, but that it has been included in the proposal, I wonder a little. Because we are now simply removing a deduction for those sailors who work on ships which are not under these flags. I have always had the idea that when you are a Dane and live in Denmark, you have the same deductions, but I can understand that you no longer have to have that. This is certainly something that we would like to ask from the Danish People's Party, because I am surprised, first of all, that it is part of this proposal, but I am also surprised that we have not been able to say that we have not been talking about it. Then I have another question. I have promised to take this on behalf of Mrs Susanne Eilersen, and that is simply because we have had some problems with people working on ships under the DIS system who are divorced. You are then told that you have to pay an increase in child support, but it has simply been problematic to charge it from these men who then work on the boats. How big the problem is, I don't have to be smart. I am sure that Mrs Susanne Eilersen is much smarter than I am, but I have at least promised to ask a question about it, so the Minister can expect that too. I don't know if the Minister can answer, but we have to find out. Of course, we support the proposal immediately, but allow me to ask a few questions about the seaman's allowance, which is suddenly being removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313191119	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen and welcome to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313191125	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, this bill translates parts of the Business and Entrepreneurship Agreement, which was agreed between the Government, the Danish People's Party and the Radicals on 12 November 2017. These changes will make it easier and cheaper to operate maritime industries. Denmark is one of the world's leading maritime nations. We would still like to be allowed to do so, which is why it is important that we have initiatives that can both maintain and develop our position and provide better framework conditions for blue Denmark. That is why it is proposed, among other things, that we should: to extend the DIS scheme to seafarers working on board a number of special ships. We could see that we had unequal conditions of competition compared to many other countries, so it has been important to focus on that too. Then we abolish the registration fee for ships in the Danish Register of Shipping. This will reduce the costs for shipping companies by choosing to sail under Danish flag and thus attract new ships from both Danish and foreign shipping companies, thereby increasing maritime activities in Denmark. As has been mentioned, we are also adjusting the rules for seafarers' allowances, so that the rules only apply to seafarers working on board ships based in EU and EEA Member States. This is not something we want to do, but we have had to do so in accordance with EU rules. The proposal then also contains, as several speakers have said, an increase in the limit on the allocation of employee shares to share income tax from 10% to 20%, and we think that is very positive. For that is some of the things that can help improve the viability of businesses. Especially during the start-up phase, it can often be difficult to find funding to provide an attractive enough wage to attract the capacities needed to develop a start-up business, and this offers better opportunities for these companies. In addition, it is proposed that the percentage allowance for the payment of excess tax should be reduced and that the interest rate for the collection of persons' taxes should be changed so that the day-to-day interest rate and the residual tax surcharge should be increased. Against this background, I would like to say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313191350	Thank you very much to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Welcome to sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313191358	Thank you. After all, this bill consists of a number of different elements. The first is an increase in the limit on the allocation of employee shares to share income tax, from 10%. of the annual salary at 20%. of the annual salary, provided that at least 80% of the annual salary is paid. the company's employees are offered the share pay scheme. With the proposed rules laid down in the bill, a company will thus be able to offer the employees shares, purchase rights for shares, subscription rights for shares, without income tax on the employee, at a value of between 10 and 20 per cent. of the annual salary, provided that they here at least 80%. the company's employees are offered the share pay scheme in question. It will then also be the case that the company will be able to continue to offer selected employees shares up to a maximum of 10%. of the annual salary. This means that the proposal extends the possibility for companies to use employee shares to pay their employees. It's $25 million. kr. a year after re-entry, and that cost comes, of course, by converting wages into employee shares which are not subject to income tax. Instead, you will be taxed on the profit margin when you dispose of your shares. After all, the taxation of equity income is lower than personal income. It's 27 percent. or 42%. compared to e.g. a top tax of 56 per cent. It will then be the case that, if the stock is well, high-paid people will have a considerable reduction in taxes. We know that it is typically the highest-paid people who are offered shares. This is what the draft law is trying to solve by offering a minimum of 80% if you pay by more than 10%. by the employees. That's sympathetic enough, but it's probably still 20 percent gone. on the floor, which will be passed over in this, and in addition, those who earn the most in a company will also be able to acquire the most employee shares with the tax advantage attached to it. 20% of 800,000 kroner. For example, isn't it? more than 20%. of 400,000 kroner. So it is again a proposal that gives the highest-paid some benefits, including tax, and we cannot, of course, support that. Then there is an extension of the DIS scheme to seafarers working on a number of special ships. We have the feeling on the Enhedslisten that we are not as such opposed to the DIS law, but we are against section 10 of the Act. 2 and 3 which prevent Danish professional organisations from representing and negotiating for the seamen on board the DIS-flagged ships. And there is Article 3 (3) of the DIS Act. 2, made an exception ▪ it is the so-called ferry-DIS which means that ferries between Denmark and Sweden, Germany, Norway and England are covered by DIS, but with access for the Danish professional organisations to negotiate agreements for all the seafarers on board the ferries. As we understand it, the trade union organizations have apparently succeeded and we would like to commend them for having ensured that § 10 (1). 2 and 3 of the DIS Act shall not apply to this expansion of DIS, which is the case here in relation to the special ships, i.e. it will be possible to negotiate agreements. Sir. Jesper Petersen also raised the question. I think it is a bill coming from the Minister for Business, but perhaps we can ask the tax minister today whether it is on the way, because the two things are very much connected in our optics, and we do not see that a bill has been tabled by the Minister for Economic Affairs to ensure this. This may, of course, be something we have overlooked, but it is something that we will certainly pursue. Then there is the third proposed in the draft law, namely to abolish registration fees for ships in Danish ship registers. It may not be the big money we are talking about, but we are not in favour of it. Why should we contribute to cheaper access to a register of ships, which we are basically not a big fan of, and why should shipping companies get away cheaper once again? In the last two elements, one concerns the collection of interest and the day-to-day interest rates and the increase that is taking place. In other words, we can support this to the extent that it encourages the deduction of income tax as early as possible. On the other hand, we have a few questions in relation to the fifth and final element: the limitation of the seaman's allowance to seafarers working on board ships based in Denmark or in other EU and EEA Member States. As we understand it, it was also, sir. Jesper Petersen then raised the issue of EU rules that stand in the way of this deduction and which will now require it to be put down. But what is the precise reasoning for this? After all, Danish seafarers have had sailors' allowances, also under other flags, longer than Denmark has been a member of the EU. We also think there is something problematic in this, in that the amount of the long haul was just increased in 2011 to DKK 105,000. as part of the conciliation on the extension of the use of non-Danish masters in Danish ships, the so-called 40-percent rule. After all, we also have some very critical consultation answers here, so the Minister of Taxation should go a little deeper into the fact that there are some political agreements about this. Perhaps there is some uncertainty about EU legislation, and why is it that we are going to settle here at this stage? In any case, there are some things that we would like to have examined and asked about in connection with the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192010	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. We move on to the honourable Member's question. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192019	Thank you, Mr President. The proposal here implements a number of elements of the Business and Entrepreneurship Agreement in the field of taxation. These are even better opportunities for the allocation of employee shares, an extension of the DIS scheme, the abolition of registration fees for ships in Danish ship registers, and then the proposal increases interest rates in order not to have advance registered correctly. In particular, we think it is positive that good conditions are provided for the allocation of employee shares. It may be very important for entrepreneurs in particular to have this opportunity. If you do not have a high level of liquidity and need highly specialised labour, it may be a very good solution to allocate part of the salary as a share in the company's earnings potential. At the same time, we think that there are really positive prospects in being the co-owner of the company in which you work. Overall, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192126	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. And welcome to Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192134	The negotiations of this autumn's Business and Entrepreneurship Agreement we were really happy to be invited to and contribute to. We were not there for that long; it was our own fault, one might say, because we had some wishes for the contents of the package which could not be paid immediately. However, as the Social Democratic Party, I think it was, said before, one might have wished that a broader agreement had been reached here and had cut a heel in several places, so that there could have been more broad support for this package, because it has been long awaited. That is why we must also pay tribute to the government for having come up with a package in this area with which we can then disagree. I was more determined to say that the alternative was against before we just got through things well over the last few days compared to this specific bill. I still believe that we will end up being opposed to the fact that there is part of the state aid that is almost to the ships and shipping companies, for which we cannot quite vouch. It should probably have been more adapted to a sustainable profile so that the support schemes that were made did not so much take care of the interests of black energy. But when I went back from the negotiations in the autumn, I could also see that it was one of the places where we had said: okay, we might bite at it if the other looked reasonable enough. I think the employee stock scheme has been quite sensible; we would have preferred all employees to have the opportunity to do so, but 80%. is a reasonable limit anyway. We believe so much in entrepreneurship there. I know that it is also major business companies that have the opportunity to take advantage of this, and peace be with it, it is also sensible for them. I can also see in several of the hearings that there is a broad consensus on this. There we would support such an arrangement in relation to the employee shares, although an increase in inequality is being created by it, I imagine. However, we believe so much in entrepreneurship as a driving force and co-ownership in companies that we would still like to achieve that. We must then look straight home at whether the DIS agreement is actually as nearly rosy in the adjustments that have been made as it sounds to be. I would really like to be able to back up, if only in relation to the single element of employee shares. So we'll go a long way to see if we can get closer. But our opposition to the entire business and entrepreneurial agreement was precisely that it was simply hugely biased, that is to say a totally biased redistribution, in relation to what we would like to do in society, despite the fact that we would go a long way in supporting the entrepreneurship and co-ownership of many people in Denmark in the companies they work in. But we think that something sensible has been approached in a number of areas, and there are a few of the elements of this bill that have not been such cockhorses to us. It is probably too much to hope to get through an amendment which would also support the sustainable conversion of these shipping companies. But we can try, and then we'll see if we're getting close to a yes. At first sight, we are sceptical about the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192445	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192449	I'm sensing on Mr. Simpson. René Gade that there is such an open and slightly seeking approach to the bill. I think it should be reconsidered when it comes to the issue of the DIS scheme, because this is saying that these are black jobs, I do not really think they are right. This is not least because there is a growth in the green offshore sector, i.e. wind turbines at sea etc., and Denmark has been a driving force in this development. If we also want the jobs that go with it, then we need to do some things about our taxation of seafarers, and that is actually what is being proposed here. What is crucial is that they should have proper professional rights when extending the DIS scheme. So if you can get it, and I hope the Minister for Taxation and the Minister for Business and Industry can make that commitment, then I would actually recommend it, because we will then be able to benefit from green development, even in relation to jobs, if the alternative will be included in it. I am a little more sceptical about the issue of employee shares, in relation to the fact that there will then be some tax exemptions which I think we have reason to keep up with. However, in the case of the DIS scheme, I actually think there are some green jobs to harvest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192600	Exactly and there I am simply not enough down in matter to know whether it is exactly as Mr. Jesper Petersen says. But yes, it would be nice to be able to join us if we do not have so much problems with the employee stock scheme. This is something we would normally be looking at at differently, because in it there is an inequality and a pre-distribution, because a number of employees are usually more privileged in the companies than others. So, yeah, let's hope so. I have not received a mandate from the group to go further on this front yet. I think I've calculated it a little more skeptical until now, but it may be that we're getting smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192632	Thank you, sir. René Gade, and welcome to Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192642	From a radical point of view, this is some tax measures that will help create development and jobs as opposed to the bill we discussed before this. That is why we are pleased to be in the political agreement behind the bill and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the government and the Danish People's Party for their cooperation on these initiatives. We think it is a good idea to make it more attractive to have employee shares, because it can help to promote entrepreneurship, and it can also help to encourage employees to participate in the ownership of the company and thus also get a share of the profits that can arise when a small company will hopefully grow larger. For a small entrepreneurial enterprise, it can be part of the pay package so that you can attract skilled people to the company. It may be that at first you can't pay such a high wage, but then you can give a co-ownership of the company, and then the employee can get a share in the profit that can come over the years if the company grows. We think this is a good opportunity to create new businesses and also to develop some of the new companies that are. We are also very much in favour of getting more ships into what is called the DIS scheme, i.e. an attractive tax regime for ships. That's one of them. ships operating in the wind turbine industry and with offshore winds, which is why I do not agree that these are black jobs. A large part of the downstream industry that has come because we have been at the forefront of sea winds in Denmark is, on the other hand, green jobs. Then, of course, it would be a good idea for those ships too to come under Danish flags and you can get Danes on the ships and hopefully these can also be maintained in Danish ports so that jobs can be created there. It may also help some companies to offer offshore wind farms in other countries, and then it could be that the activity took place from, for example, Esbjerg Harbour or somewhere else that has been good at it. So we think it is a good green job to take those ships into the DIS scheme, and we are very pleased about that too. Overall, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192903	There is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192908	It's just a comment on the whole discussion on green and black jobs, that is, some of the last, as Mr. Andreas Steenberg also goes up here. It is true that some of the special ships with which the DIS scheme is to be extended work in the wind turbine industry. But most of them work in the oil and gas industries and in oil and gas extraction. So everything else, after all, has to be called black jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192941	Then we have green, black, white jobs. I wonder if there are red jobs as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313192945	You're gonna have to talk about that in the Enhedslisten, but that's not it, sir. Henning Hyllested says. Where we simply believe in the Radical Left that the future lies is, of course, to turn the North Sea into an area where we have even more sea winds. That is certainly our policy, and it has to be said that the oil and gas business is quietly being wound up. I think it's 2040. At any rate, I remember that sir... Henning Hyllested and I have set up a train fund at some point, and there we expect the oil to be exhausted in 2040. Then I think it will be sea wind, and it is with those glasses that we would like to be involved in this scheme, because I believe that there will be more of it in the future than oil and gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193027	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and welcome to Anders Johansson from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193048	Thank you. The legislative proposal here, as several speakers have said, is the implementation of the business and entrepreneurial package that we agreed on in November last year, so that is, of course, a very good legislative proposal. What I would like to mention first, which we are very pleased about in the Conservative People's Party, is, of course, that we have succeeded in extending the DIS scheme so that Danish seafarers will become more attractive in the future, for example. in the offshore sector in the North Sea. It may be within special ships, oil/gas or in offshore winds or other special ships. It is simply right, very important that we have good conditions for our seafarers, because their competences are important if we are to maintain Denmark's position in the maritime industry. In total, Blue Denmark employs about 100,000 people and exports over 200 billion people. kr. annual. Many of the skills needed in shipping companies, repairers in yards and subcontractors are being developed at sea, which is why it is also the food chain for the whole industry. If you do not make this extension of the DIS scheme, the risk will be that Danish sailors will gradually be outgrown by foreign workers. In this way, the land-based part of the industry will also be able to look forward to the disappearance of important competences abroad. That is why the extension of the DIS regime is really, really important. Another element of the bill also concerns our maritime industry, and it is the abolition of registration fees for merchant ships when they are registered in the Danish Register of Shipping. It is important that Denmark remains an attractive flag state for both Danish and foreign shipping companies; not only because formbrog is the most beautiful flag to hang out aft on a ship, but also because it helps to concentrate competences in the maritime area around Denmark. Today Denmark is the 13th largest maritime nation measured on registered tonnage in the ship register. We are the sixth largest maritime nation in the world on operated tonnage. However, I also think that our ambitions should go beyond that, so with the relaxation that we have agreed to implement here with the registration fee, it has already meant that several shipping companies have actually chosen to flag ships in the Danish Register of Shipping. For example: Mærsk has chosen to register some special ships, and Lauritzen has also signed up to announce their intention to flag ships under the Danish flag since the publication of the business and entrepreneurial package. So it's super good and a sign that this package is working. It can be said that the larger the volume that comes in the Danish Register of Shipping, the more opportunities our sailors will have to get out on different ships and thus also develop different skills within the industry, which we can benefit from in order to develop our profession in the longer term. Both of these elements are also mentioned by the maritime growth team in the recommendations they have reported in the spring of last year. And it is actually a good thing to say that a majority has now listened to those recommendations and hopefully adopt this bill. Then there is the part about employee shares that has also been mentioned by several, and that is of course also something that we think is positive. One can imagine in connection with a start-up that there may be a need, if the liquidity is perhaps tight, to pay off some employees who have some special skills, with employee shares, so that one can attract some skilled labour to start up with. These are often the challenges faced by start-up companies, namely that it can be difficult to attract qualified workers or some with specific skills. And that's where this pay method can be really nice for a start-up company with limited liquidity. With these comments, I would just like to say that, of course, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193442	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193446	It's more than that, sir. Anders Johansson uses that argument with Danish sailors becoming more attractive and that is only very good if this leads to Danish sailors actually being employed on those special ships. But that was the same argument used at the time when the DIS register was created back in 1988. It was exactly the same argument that this net wage scheme, etc. would secure Danish jobs. But the opposite has happened. After all, what we call long sea shipping is virtually no Danish sailors left. There is no one on deck, there are some masters of machinery, and there are also navigators, although the abandonment of the nationality requirement at the time also meant that there are not so many masters and so on. employed on the DIS ships. They have also been phased out to some extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193556	There have been fewer Danish sailors. I agree with the questioner on this point. I believe that the solution to this challenge is that we should get the food chain going, that we should have trained more Danish sailors, because it is not the case that Danish sailors go unemployed. Some have gone ashore and others are still at sea in the jobs there are, but it is not the case that there is a high level of unemployment among Danish seafarers. That is why I would just like to say that when we find that there have been fewer Danish seamen on board the ships, it is because too long there have been too few trained. So I think that the solution to strengthening the Danish competences in the maritime area, also among seafarers, is to get a few more and get the Danish Register of Shipping wider, get a larger portfolio of ships into the Danish Register of Shipping, so that you can also develop more competences in the maritime area, both in special ships and in regular long voyages, for example, but I just think it is important that we get trained some more. I think that's the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193656	I certainly cannot disagree with that. I think that's good. There is little problem that it is the shipping companies themselves who sit in the training places and decide for themselves about them. We can barely get the figures on how and how it looks from them. But okay, I totally agree that some more sailors need to be trained. But there's gotta be jobs for them too, and this is where it goes. And there's the fact that I'm saying there's no difference between DIS. There are no new jobs in DIS in itself. On the contrary, developments since 1988 have shown that they are not. Then you can say that they, for example. may engage on ships under foreign flags. Here you are somewhere else in the bill cutting the seaman's allowance that they can get by being employed on a ship under foreign flags, of course, unless it is under EU/EEA flags.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193754	I simply do not agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Henning Hyllested in that this doesn't create Danish jobs. This means, of course, that the Danes in the real world, out on the ships, everything else equal becomes more attractive as labour if they can go out and compete on net wages instead of gross wages. So everything else equal, this will create Danish jobs. I am well aware that it is not the case that there will be more jobs gross, but the Danes will have better access to those jobs as they come on a net wage. They become cheaper compared to the foreign colleagues they have. In relation to the limitation of the seaman's allowance, I share the frustration that several people have mentioned here today from the platform. As I understand it, it is a demand from the EU • I believe that the tax minister will explain the details of it. However, it is simply a requirement that, if this scheme continues, shipowners may have to repay it as unlawful State aid. That is how I understand it, but I am sure that the Minister of Taxation will be able to explain it in more detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193853	Thank you. There are also no further comments, so we will have a clarification on that in a moment when the Minister of Taxation comes to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313193901	Thank you, President. Sometimes the joy of expectation is the greatest, but I will try to live up to what is demanded, namely to explain the matter and the other questions that have been raised during the debate. However, I would like to start by thanking you for the receipt of the draft law, which, fortunately, is more positive than the receipt of it earlier. As a number of rapporteurs also mentioned, we are implementing a number of elements of the business and entrepreneurial package from the autumn, which the government made with the Danish People's Party and the Radicals. And it's only gratifying that more people will vote in favour if not the whole bill, then parts of it. The agreement has to improve it is at least the political objective of business in Denmark, considering that it is the business sector that creates large parts of the value that has been the basis for our prosperity and for our well-being. The government has a desire to make society richer, to make the social cake bigger, and we do so by ensuring good conditions, growth, and job creation in the private sector. And that is why it is absolutely crucial that Denmark has a strong business community not only today but also in the coming years. One example of some of the things we are doing is the extension of the company's ability to allocate employee shares. As a number of rapporteurs, it also provides an opportunity to motivate, reward and share ownership of a company with its employees, hopefully for the benefit of both the company and the employees. And especially in start-ups or in small and medium-sized enterprises, it can be a central part of the pay package and the opportunity to attract the workforce needed to develop the company and grow the company. And therefore it has been demanded that we have good, reasonable and reasonable conditions for employee shares in Denmark. We get that, among other things. with the proposal that lies here and the enlargements that lie in it. We will further improve the conditions for employee shares in the upcoming parliamentary assembly, where we will target further reductions in the possibility of assigning employee shares to new small companies as set out in the agreement. Another example is the extension of the DIS regime, where we in Denmark, as the Conservatives' rapporteur also mentioned, want not only to maintain but also to expand our position as a maritime nation on the global market. And there is a need for it to be a condition that it should be attractive for sailors to work on board Danish-flagged ships. Instead of ensuring that Danish-owned ships sail under a flag that is not Dannebrog, we must be competitive, so not only Danish-owned ships, but also foreign-owned ships want to sail under the Danish flag. That is why we are extending the net salary scheme for seafarers... what is called the DIS scheme... so that in future the scheme can also be used by seafarers working on board a number of special ships. These are changes that can match similar schemes that are offered in some of our neighbouring countries and that strengthen the competitiveness of the Danish offshore sector in the global market. If we did not make these extensions, we would not be able to be competitive in relation to global competition in the maritime sector. At the same time, we abolish the registration fee for all ships in the Danish Register of Shipping. The abolition contributes to the hope that more ships will be flagged under the Danish flag. Overall, the initiatives in the legislative proposal contribute to supporting a strong business environment and, as I said at the outset, this is an important priority for the government. Then there are the questions that have been asked, where I can say that the government and, moreover, the parties behind the agreement place emphasis on extending the DIS scheme on the basis of an agreement between the social partners. The Government, therefore, under the auspices of the Ministry of Industry and the Minister of Industry, has called on the social partners in the DIS Contact Committee to find a solution which ensures Danish working conditions on the ships covered by an extension of the DIS scheme. The Government has received a proposal for a law-based solution which the parties to the DIS Contact Committee support, and the government will therefore look into the proposal and we will discuss it with the parties to the agreement. And it is my expectation, and the Minister for Industry, that a draft law to ensure working conditions will be put forward in the opening week of the Danish Parliament this autumn, after it has of course been in consultation. So it should answer that question. There is agreement among the social partners in the DIS Committee, and the government will elevate the proposal for a bill which will be presented in the Parliamentary Chamber in the next session. Then there's the question of these tightenings, which include... The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party spoke about restrictions for some sailors. And that is how the rapporteur of the Conservatives said that the DIS scheme is State aid. There are at least two types of State aid: legal State aid and illegal State aid. If you are convicted of unlawful State aid, you have to repay the aid that has been granted, and it will not only affect the Danish State, but also some of these shipping companies that have received illegal State aid. That is why we must ensure that we remain within what is legal, and that is why we are in dialogue with the Commission. The rules on state aid in the maritime sector are more relaxed than normal state aid because the European Union recognises that, in terms of maritime transport and maritime transport, we are globally competitive. So there is scope for some things where there is a little more flexibility. However, the Commission has said very clearly 'no' to some of the things we have wanted, and that is why there are, as a whole, some extensions in the legislative proposal that lie here, with special ships, but also some tightenings where the Commission has clearly said to us: we cannot allow this. And if we continue to do so, we risk starting a case against Denmark. So the austerity that is in it has not emerged from a political desire to tighten, but from a recommendation from the Commission. Overall, I think it is a sensible proposal where there is a balance, and one can also read in the consultation answers that it is the maritime sector that agrees with the government and the parties to the agreement. And that is why I hope that with the clarification of these things there can be broad support for the bill. But, of course, I should like to answer questions here as well as in the legislative procedure that follows.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313194607	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313194611	I would just like to ask you about the Minister's commitment. I sense that it is well prepared it is a reading but I just want to be sure that we will get through with the fact that there will actually be trade union rights and opportunities for trade unions and employers to have real negotiations and discussions on the terms and conditions of the employees who will then be employed under an extended DIS scheme. It's important to us. I really think it is commendable that we can have contact with the industry in this way and say: you must reconcile and agree on how we can do this, and then we will be able to work politically with. They have delivered that, and I think it is constructive with the letter we send. The tax minister said, I think, that it would be looked at positively. It is customary to have such wordings which can, as it were, lead in the direction of making sure that this is actually going to happen. And I would just like to ask the Minister of Taxation to confirm that it is with great certainty that we can count on that addition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313194726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313194728	I couldn't imagine anything else, but of course we have to discuss it with the parties to the agreement. As I understand it, it takes place under the auspices of the Minister for Industry, but it is my clear expectation that it will be included in the legislative proposals in the next session, preferably during the opening week. As I understand it, it will not be a legislative proposal in my area, that is to say the tax minister's area, but, I believe, in the area of the Minister for Industry. I have not personally seen the letter and the proposal, but if there is agreement in the DIS Contact Committee, it is natural to make it a law. I should also like to take this opportunity to reply to what I was not able to answer quite clearly before about why we are tightening it up. It is partly to ensure that it is still legal to grant an increased seaman's allowance to Danish sailors on EU/EEA registered ships, partly to avoid that Danish shipping companies with Danish seafarers on ships registered in third countries risk having to repay illegally received State aid back from January 2017 and then make this tightening up which the Danish People's Party rapporteur was sceptical about, but which is, if you do not want to risk that the shipping companies as well as the state will be squeezed, necessary to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313194851	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313194856	I'd like to continue a little along the path that Mr. Jesper Petersen has laid out. What the social partners in this area have found is a very, very concrete proposal, which extends what is called Section 3 of the DIS Act. It is such an exception to what is called Section 10 of the DIS Act, which means that Danish professional organisations cannot represent seafarers on board ships under the DIS flag. So it is a very concrete proposal that has been put forward, and that is why one might wonder why the draft law should wait until the new session when it is as concrete as it is. I also noticed that the Minister said that this would, of course, be looked at and discussed. I just have to find out if that is because that is what the Minister can say when it is, like, not in his area, his resort, not to say too much in such a situation. We are very aware of this because it can be said that the whole extension of the DIS scheme to these new special ships is based precisely on the fact that there is an agreement between the social partners, but also between the parties and the government. I think it is really, really important to make it clear that there is no doubt about that. After this one can start to wonder whether we will just have the extension of the DIS scheme with net pay, and then we will not get the other in a proper version, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195043	In order to ensure the speedy implementation of the legislative proposal, I shall reply briefly to the question and the short answer is: yes, and when I make a reservation, it is because it does not belong to my area of responsibility as tax minister. If sir... Henning Hyllested wants a more detailed answer, he can ask a written question, and then I am sure that we can obtain contributions from the Minister for Industry, who is also concerned about the success of this. That's why I can't imagine anything but that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195120	Well, I will do that, because it is clear, as I said before, that all the support for the expansion of DIS, which is so important to the industry as it expresses, stands and falls by whether you get this opt-out, so it is quite important. I should like to add to what has been said about the seaman's allowance, that there is a criticism in the hearings that, in fact, it is believed that the government is running from a political agreement back from 2011 ■ that was also one of the points made by our rapporteur, Mr Rune Lund, where, to a certain extent, it gave up 40%, the nationality requirement for masters, against the fact that this increased deduction was then granted. I do not hear that there is anything to be said about the fact that the nationality requirement must then be reinstated, and that is to say, it must be reinstated or withdrawn, so that we maintain the nationality requirement. So I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of this, i.e. if there is not actually a political agreement from then, which means that we will have to negotiate again with the trade unions on this matter in order to return things from then on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195244	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195246	I do not know exactly the text of the agreement from then on, but I have been informed that the draft law stated that the increased seaman's allowance included state aid and the anticipated notification and approval by the European Commission. There we have fought, hopefully so blood, sweat and tears have stood around the officials who must have taken the fight down in the Commission, but it has not ended up with the Commission being able to approve it, and that is why the legislative proposal falls away, and that is why it is not going to happen. I think it is a good thing to say it in the name of Jysk slavery, but it is a condition as a member of the European Union, and the European Union is basically a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195336	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195340	It's a clear question. In my rapporteur's speech, I used such a powerful concept as black energy. This was then responded to, and I could understand that there are actually many pleasant things to say about the effects on the offshore industry in the wind industry by this bill. I just want to say: yes, I am sure there is, but I just need to understand the minister and the purpose of the whole game. I guess it's not meant to help sustainability. I guess it's an aid to growth promotion, which is okay, too. But with regard to the extraction of one and the other in the North Sea and, in general, our work in shipping and the shipping industry in the North Sea and generally in Danish waters, I do not see a green angle in this proposal. It is quite okay, but I could understand that there is, if not a overweight then at least a large proportion of what is being supported here well with actual state aid that is green. There I just want to hear the Minister: it has not been intended to be a special green bill, has it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195446	I took good note of that talk about the colors of the jobs. I am concerned that we will ensure growth with regard to the environment, nature and climate. It's always a weighting. I think it is actually possible to say that this is a green proposal when it comes to the maritime part. It is about the fact that if we compare the climate impression of the Danish fleet from a large Danish shipping company such as Mærsk, they have some ships which, of course, sail on fossil fuels, but are much more energy efficient than a large number of other shipping companies' ships. The greater the incentive we give to carrying a container with a ship that is leading technologically in the use of the fuel used and fuel efficiency, the more green it is. And there is no doubt that we have a fleet that is at the forefront of fuel efficiency. It may be that there are also individual countries and individual shipping companies around, but here we are leading, and it is the maritime sector that we provide better conditions. I actually think that in a global context one can argue for that is green. But it hasn't been the main aim of the bill. I admit it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195605	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195607	In fact, this only motivates me to be positive about the draft law. It was just the share of offshore energy that was part of it, and I couldn't see the wind playing such a big part. But relatively, I think it is quite true that the Danish fleet is better than so many others, including in terms of sustainability. So we go home, as I also said from the platform, and see if we can find more pluses than minuses.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195629	I hope that the alternative will succeed, because the more votes there may be for the bill, the happier I will be as tax minister, and the more security there is for the Danish business community that what we have adopted not only becomes something but becomes something for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195646	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195648	I would really like to follow up on the question that Mr. Henning Hyllested asked, and which I don't think the tax minister answered. It is about the fact that when the amount of the long-distance allowance was increased to DKK 105,000. in 2011 as part of an agreement in which there was also an extension of access to use of non-Danish masters, the question is that when that deduction then is no more, but it was part of an agreement which introduced a rule that after 2011 it only needed to be 40%. that the masters, who were Danish, where it was 100 per cent before 2011, and when part of the agreement then appears to lapse due to some EU rules, although there is still some ambiguity about it, as far as I understand, the question arises: Will the Minister of Taxation convene some negotiations and discussions so that we can look at the demand for Danish masters? For one could of course make a reversal of the rule so that it becomes as it was before 2011 when there was a requirement that it should be Danish masters. It was part of a single package, and now some of it falls away, and then it is most natural to call for negotiations on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195810	I simply have to be honest and say to Mr. Rune Lund, that I am not so in detail in the corner of the discussion. That is not what has filled so much during the negotiations. - Sir, you can. Rune Lund does not know that the time the government has negotiated with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left in particular, with which we have concluded the agreement, but I think that this is a relevant question. I do not think it is quite such a thing that negotiations should be convened, but I would like to call on you to do so. Rune Lund to put it as a written question, then I promise to reply quickly, and if it turns out that it, sir. Rune Lund wants to be legal, that is to say without conflicting with the state aid rules, so I would also like to take a positive view of it, and then there could be a basis for a meeting or a debate. But it is too early to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195857	It's also because I'm gonna count to 90 here. I can hear that the Social Democratic Party is dissatisfied, I can hear that the Danish People's Party is dissatisfied, and if we count the Enhedslisten, we are above the 90 mandates. If the tax credit is not to be as it is, because of some seemingly EU rules, which are still unresolved, as must be understood in the context of today's debate, then we are back to the fact that, as part of a comprehensive package, other parts of that agreement must also be under discussion, including the issue of non-Danish masters. That is really the logic. So I think the tax minister should go back to the government and say that there is a majority in the Folketing who has raised the issue here in today's debate, and there is dissatisfaction with how the matter has developed and there is an agreement from before when things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313195952	Well, that's one possibility, of course. My take on it when we have made such an agreement is first and foremost to discuss it with the parties with which we have agreed, and that is for the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. So if the Danish People's Party shares the wish of Enhedslisten and addresses the Minister of Business and myself, we will of course discuss the issue. Until that happens, I would like to call on you, Mr President. Rune Lund to ask the question so that we can clarify what is within the EU rules and what else. Then there is also just the fact that even if it was possible to do so, and that is the problem when you adopt something that will only subsequently have to have the Commission's permission. What about those who have been employed who are not Danes? So they're just gonna be fired? What about their notice? What if there are no Danish masters to take over their jobs? So there are also a number of practical things to consider. But first let us clarify what is possible and then we can take the political discussion from there. I'd be happy to put that up. There is, of course, both a second and a third reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313200058	Thank you, Minister. There is something that suggests that we should take another round, and we would be happy to do so. Sir. Rune Lund wanted the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313200110	I would just like to take the floor to say that in my rapporteur's speech I forgot to greet the SF and say that the SF cannot support the bill. But it is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313200121	Thank you. Then we came all the way around. I do not expect the Minister to comment on this. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It is so easy to understand that it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180313200141	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 14 March 2018, at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
