ParlaMint-DK_20180301100000	The meeting is open. From a member of the Danish Parliament Ulla Sandbæk, who has been on leave, I have been informed that from 4 March 2018 onwards she will be able to revisit her meeting in Tinget. Anders Stjernholm's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. I have been informed by the Prime Minister that Library is being transferred from the Minister for Culture to the Minister for Public Innovation. The message will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 21 February 2018 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of standard IT workstations and associated networks, service desks and user management, information security tasks relating to the previous ones, and contracts and supplier management tasks related to outsourced IT operations related to the Royal Decree of 21 February 2018. Library, transferred from the Minister for Culture to the Minister for Public Innovation per year. 1 March 2018. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign.: Lars Løkke Rasmussen Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 178 (Proposal for a law amending the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc.) Minister for Foreign Affairs (Anders Samuelsen): Bill No. L 179 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the External Action Service. Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 80 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution replacing the Danish Arts Foundation by six regional art foundations) and motion for a resolution No. B 81 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the amendment of grants under the Danish Art Support System). Peter Skaarup (DF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Christina Egelund (LA), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 82 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the education ceiling (citizen proposal)). Karina Due (DF) and Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF): Request no. F 22 (What will the government do to improve police action against animal welfare violations?). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Question No. F 23 (What can the Minister say about the mandate given by the government for the negotiations on the public employees' agreement and how the government feels about interfering with a possible conflict?). Mattias Tesfaye (S) and Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Question No. F 24 (What can the Government say about the possibility of people with disabilities taking vocational training, and what can the Government say about the initiatives that the Government intends to take to increase the opportunity for people with disabilities to take vocational training?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100239	Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen (EL) has applied for leave from 5 March 2018, while Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S) has applied for leave from 12 March 2018, both cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100319	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Enhedslisten in Copenhagen Storkreds, Rosa Lund, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 5 March 2018 on the occasion of Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party of Sjællands Storkreds, Kasper Roug, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 12 March 2018 on the occasion of Rasmus Horn Langhoff's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100358	The Committee on the Verification of Credentials may be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote now. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 102 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100428	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is only one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 41 by Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF), Trine Bramsen (S), Preben Bang Henriksen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour 78 (DF, S, V, LA and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 9 (RV and SF). Proposal for adoption No V 41 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100524	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100550	The final adoption of the draft law can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour, 71 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 31 (DF and EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be forwarded to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100624	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As there is not, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100647	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100717	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100736	The final adoption of the draft law will be put to the vote and we can start voting now. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 76 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 26 (S), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will be forwarded to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100808	No amendments have been tabled to this proposal. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100828	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 93 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301100902	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? In the absence of that, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? I do not regard this muttering from the Chamber as an objection. It's agreed. I would like to recommend that the talks that are taking place bilaterally in the Chamber at the moment take place outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101008	The negotiations have been opened and the first to speak is Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101033	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for bringing forward this bill. The bill is an implementation of the so-called NIS Directive, which aims to ensure a high common level of security for domain services across the EU. We are pleased with the measures presented in the draft law. There is no doubt that cyberattacks and crashes in IT systems pose a serious threat to Danish society. It is therefore important that we work constantly to ensure a high level of information security in key sectors of society such as water, electricity, gas, etc., especially in view of the threats on the Internet. After all, the Danes use digital services on an historic scale and they have become an important part of our social infrastructure. Therefore, we must constantly adapt the requirements that should be imposed on providers and operators of our digital infrastructures, and it is therefore necessary for providers and operators to put in place appropriate security measures that reflect the current threat picture, as is also apparent from the legislative proposal. The draft law suggests that the Minister subsequently lays down essential parts of the implementation of notices, and there are several consultation responses that have pointed out that this actually makes the final legislative proposal somewhat difficult to understand. The Social Democrats therefore want a clear framework for implementation to be laid down in the further work on the legislative proposal. As several consultation responses have pointed out, it is not clear which incidents are covered by the draft law, and I am therefore pleased that the Minister has chosen in the commented consultation note to clarify which incidents are covered by the draft law. The Social Democratic Party supports the draft law's desire to implement the NIS Directive with as few burdens as possible for the organisations and companies covered by the law. My examination of the hearings gives me the impression that the Minister has not included the Ministry of Defence in the process towards the submission of the bill. However, I note that, in the light of the Ministry of Defence's response, the Minister has listened to the Cybersecurity Centre and clarified that the Cybersecurity Centre, in coordination with the sectoral authority, can inform the public about incidents in network and information security. I think it is important that we continue to focus on a timetable in which organisations and companies have the opportunity to adapt and implement the new requirements. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101327	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101332	Thank you for your speech and also thank you for your attention to some of the elements of the proposal that are a little concerned about. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Social Democrats share the basic criticism, such as: has been raised by the Institute of Human Rights, by the location of the Cybersecurity Centre under the FE and of the importance that it has that it becomes a non-civil authority, with the exceptions that are there to carry out this task, and whether the Social Democracy can live with that is how it ends up if it ends up like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101412	We have noted that objection, and now that I say that we can live with that in a moment, it is because we must be careful not to create several different institutions that will somehow have to work with the same things. One might wish that it was something outside the FE, but on the other hand, the Cybersecurity Centre is the centre that we should all turn to with some of the things that are crucial for the functioning of our society. We are not talking about small businesses. After all, we are talking about the major infrastructure companies, which are essential for the functioning of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101456	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101458	However, whether it is large or small companies, and whatever type of information is passed on, we naturally also have a principle that it is important for citizens and businesses to have data protection and that there is political control when this kind of information is exchanged, possibly with the intelligence services of other countries. I therefore agree that it is a good thing that it is assembled in one place. The only question is, why is it placed under Defense Intelligence? That is what, as far as I see it, is being criticised by the organisations in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101534	But we have just chosen in Denmark that Center for Cybersecurity should be the place where we sort of gather the most important things, and should be the center that needs to have the overview. That is why I think we should simply accept that this is the way it is. I would say on personal data, there is a personal data regulation which is now going to run from mid-May, which is much tougher than we have ever seen. So I think we need to make sure that there is not too much overlap, but also accept that the Cybersecurity Centre is the place we have chosen in Denmark to have an overview of the most important functions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101619	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101621	I would also like to thank you for your speech and for your concern, but I would also like to follow up on Mr Beazley's report. Pelle Dragsted's question. Because it is true that the Data Protection Regulation and the legislation to be implemented in Denmark at the latest with effect from 25 May of this year are very much protecting citizens' data and providing a framework for the protection of all our data, but this is, of course, an exception in this particular case. So I did not quite understand the rapporteur's comment that data protection should apply in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101703	After all, we are getting the personal data law that will work from mid-May and that is tougher than we have ever seen. Of course, we need to have those things working, while also making the protection that is contained in this bill, which we are talking about now, so we have a guarantee that the companies that work with some of the most important functions in our society, namely the infrastructure functions that are, are safe enough in their everyday lives and that they are not attackable in relation to, for example, our society. Hacker attacks from the outside. So I have no doubt that the two things can go at the same time as each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101800	However, when we agree that it is a good thing that we have a data protection system that is actually very tight and where there is a great deal of focus on the protection of citizens' data and how to deal with it, and when we then discuss today that we have the Cybersecurity Centre that is exempt, is that something that we can address in committee if I am to understand that the Social Democracy believes it is good to protect data, also in relation to the NIS directive? So, can we look at whether both can happen at the same time, including with the implementation of this directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101838	I would like to give an undertaking that we will, and there will also be other things from the consultation answers that I believe we need to address during the committee procedure. Although the Minister has accepted some of the points that have emerged from the hearings, it is of course our job to ensure that the Minister also has everything. So let us take it during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101858	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101900	After all, we have talked about the NIS directive in a number of different areas, and these are the same issues that come up over and over again, as regards the fact that the Cybersecurity Centre is not under the data protection regulation that we are all talking about all the time. That is why, in some other committees, we have talked and in any case asked questions about how to actually separate the Centre for Cybersecurity from the Defence Intelligence Service. Is this something that the Social Democratic Party would think was a good solution to this? Because I agree that there is no point in having too many places, but if it is not under the Defence Intelligence Service, then it is precisely covered by the data protection that is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101943	I have to say that I am not in a position to reply to it right now, but I am happy to bring the proposal back to my party so that we have the discussion on whether it is an option. So I'll take that from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301101957	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and I therefore welcome Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102005	I would like to sign, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, that we now have the opportunity to legalise L 144, tabled by the Minister for Industry. After all, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, this is a proposal for a new law on network and information security for domain name systems and digital services. We in the Danish People's Party agree with the Government's intention to ensure a higher level and a generally very high level of network and information security within the parts of the digital infrastructure and services contained in this bill. If you look at the status, you can see that we are increasingly challenged by the fact that there are people who have an evil motive and others to challenge IT security going in and trying to make different types of cyberattacks and provoke crashes on IT systems, etc. I think, of course, that we should be happy that some people are challenging IT systems, because this also means that we have them tested in practice and are constantly focusing on improving IT security, thus also for the benefit of the data security of all of us, both in companies and in the private sector, not least in Denmark. In concrete terms, the government has proposed that this is what I think is called the NIS directive; at least it is an EU directive of 6 July 2016 that will be implemented in Danish legislation. With the requirements laid down in this proposal, there are some requirements that are introduced to operators of essential services. It is with regard to domain name registration, and then it is to operators especially in the financial field. Then there are also a number of requirements for digital service providers, these online markets and online search engines. This is all very sensible and there are a number of initiatives that the Socialist rapporteur mentioned earlier, among others. this requirement for regulatory cooperation in relation to alerts to the Cybersecurity Centre. The general requirements laid down in this bill are, in effect, in favour of the Danish People's Party. And we have the basic premise that when we have to support and take a political stance on legislative texts that come on the basis of EU directives, we assess them on the basis of whether they are of benefit and benefit to Danish interests, whether they are of benefit to Danish consumers, citizens and companies, and we certainly think this directive is. Then you can always discuss whether there are some things that can be done even better. I have no doubt that there is, and I also believe that some of the questions have been asked about from different political parties to the Social Democratic Party, which it would be reasonable to examine, among other things. in relation to this basic data security and the security that it also works properly. We would very much like to be involved in this in the legal work. But on the whole, I can say that we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102322	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102326	Yes, and that relates to the same thing that I mentioned earlier, that is, that the information that has to be reported in this case, about events and other things, goes to a centre located under the Defence Intelligence Service, which is exempt from a number of rules on data protection, but also, of course, to a large extent, from political control. Of course, it is difficult to say what we fear, but there is, for example. Things like the exchange of information about citizens and companies with the services of other countries, including countries that are not democracies; also countries that are not countries that I know about the Danish People's Party; you should share that kind of information about citizens and companies with. So is Dansk Folkeparti safe about the fact that private companies and citizens must report information to a centre under a company that is exempt from a number of rules that aim to ensure the right to privacy and data security for citizens and, of course, also for companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102436	I can at least confirm that we have a hundred percent confidence in the Defence Intelligence Service and that we also have a hundred percent confidence that the Cybersecurity Centre can handle the tasks that they will get in connection with the creation and implementation of the bill that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102456	Well, I think that is brave, the thing about having a hundred percent trust in authorities, which is given some very far-reaching powers for insight and information about citizens and businesses. I do not think there is any historical justification for having that kind of trust. In other words, if we look at the history of the secret services, it is a long story that we have broken with the rules and frameworks that had been put out of political control or escaped them. I think it is important that we have an intelligence service, but it must be under political control and not just a hundred percent confidence is needed. That may have been more of a comment than a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102537	It's also allowed. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102542	Yes, but so, I replied to what the questioner asked about nicely and politely, as I think we always do in the Danish People's Party. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur asked if I had confidence in those who had to do the job, and then I said that I did. I think it would have been more strange if I had said: yes, we have 87 per cent. trust in the defense. I don't know what the percentage is with Enhedslisten, is it under 80? Well, then we have a problem, I'd say. No, either you have confidence or you don't have trust. This is also true in a marriage and everywhere else. In other words, trust is trust, and we have therefore to say again to the rapporteur: 100 percent confidence in both the Centre for Cybersecurity and their assignment and practice and, of course, also in the Defence Intelligence Service.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102627	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102638	The bill implements the directive on network and information security in the field of the Minister of Industry. The aim of the draft law is to implement elements of the directive relating to information security for domain name systems and digital services. The directive will also be implemented in the financial field, although we already have almost similar rules. The directive takes into account the fact that cyber-crimes and cyber-attacks pose a security threat to society. That is why the directive introduces security measures for key digital systems. IT security is also one of the areas of action identified in the recently presented strategy for Denmark's digital growth. Specifically, in the draft law, the requirement for operators of essential services in digital infrastructure and digital service providers to take appropriate security measures in the light of an assessment of the risks that businesses face in practice. Furthermore, it is proposed that the operators and providers concerned should inform the authorities of any incidents having a disruptive effect on the provision of the services concerned. These are, of course, tasks which are of great importance in a society as digitised as the Danish one, and if anyone attacks, it is important to come after them as effectively as possible and also raise the level of protection. And in order to make it easy for the companies concerned, you can report these IT incidents at a common entrance created at Virk.dk, which is basically the company's main entrance to the public sector when it comes to digital information. The requirements imposed on operators are imposed on administrators of top-level domain names, digital providers of online search engines and platforms, as well as on major money and mortgage institutions. I believe that 60-70 players are expected to be affected, so you are now in the administration of Marmorkrebs.dk, so this bill will not be important. However, it will have a major impact on safety in Denmark and the digital tools that are of major importance. So, by implementing the directive, we are strengthening IT security in community-critical network and information systems. It will make institutions that possess personal and security-related information more robust against cybercrime and other IT leaks. Unfortunately, there are more and more attacks coming. Of course, when it comes to IT systems and cybercrime, it is important that we equip ourselves to meet these challenges in the best possible way. That is why we in the Left support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102921	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we shall proceed to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301102940	Thank you very much. Well, as other rapporteurs have already said, the proposal we are debating today is another implementation of an EU directive which needs to be implemented in a number of areas, and there have also been a number of proposals for discussion in the Chamber, and I think there will also be a number of others in different areas, in order to implement this directive, which is, of course, about a greater degree of information security, both in relation to, you might say, general data breakdown, but also, of course, with the focus on outright hostile attacks on information structures and data structures in individual countries, for example. in the form of cyberattacks. In general terms, it makes sense to take this seriously both from the European Union and from Denmark, because we live in a digitalised world. We can imagine such a thing as a collapse of our payment services just one morning, when everything from MobilePay to Dankort for transfers between companies, both domestic and foreign, collapsed. It would probably have billions of costs for both companies and citizens and for confidence in our ability to pay and everything else. So these are serious matters, and therefore it is also important that we create legislation that takes account of the new world in which we live. And it makes sense for us to have some demands on the key players, companies, authorities and others, to report, for example. events, which is an important part of this proposal, so that we have one single place where this information comes in, so that you can act on it and exchange with other countries if similar things happen, and prevent new attacks etc. etc. This can only be done if the information, which is often about attacks on private companies, actually comes to the attention of the authorities. So it is important that we have this sort of collection and opportunity to act nationally and also to cooperate internationally in this area. This is not something we believe; it is something we know, so that these areas will become part of the warring process. You can call it that, someone is doing it or at least part of a way of trying to harm one another, both countries, but also private actors. So far, so good. When we then make this kind of legislation and new rules that are about us gathering information that can also involve private information about citizens and businesses, it must be done under proper conditions where citizens and businesses are sure that that information is in order. I mean, we have to remember that we are talking big business, we are talking business secrets, we can talk all kinds of information that now has to go to the authorities. I think it's good. But we must be absolutely sure that when we as a state and authority go in and acquire the private information of our citizens or companies, things will be sorted out, clear rules, transparency and political control over the authorities that are doing this. It should actually be a view that we agree on across the Folketing. That is not a left-wing view alone; it should be a view we agree on. This is where the concern about this proposal comes in. Because what's up here is that this type of information needs to be reported to what's called Center for Cybersecurity. Again, it is very sensible to have a Cybersecurity Centre, which gathers this information. The problem is that it has been chosen to place the Cybersecurity Centre under the Defense Intelligence Service. So instead of having a civil authority with the rules that apply to civil authorities, for example. Data protection rules, political control and supervision, transparency, it has been chosen to place it under the Defence Intelligence Service, which is an intelligence service... is exempt from a large number of these guarantees and is exempt from data protection rules in a number of areas. This is, of course, particularly serious when we talk about an intelligence service which also cooperates with foreign services. In other words, there is a risk that information on companies and citizens will be exchanged with the services of other countries, including countries which are far from having the democratic standards that we have in Denmark. Has the time already passed? Third Vice-President Yes). Well, I would have liked to have read out the hearings, both those from the Institute of Human Rights and others who are just pointing to this problem and suggest that this should be a civilian authority. We look forward to the work of the committee and we have not determined how we will finally vote yet, but we are simply raising a worried flag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103507	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103515	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that cybercrime is most often cross-border and therefore it may be necessary to exchange information with other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103533	Yes, and I do not have the opinion that the Defence Intelligence Service and the other intelligence services should not cooperate internationally or that information on this cannot be provided. But placing all the work on this under the Defense Intelligence Service seems to me to be too far-reaching. Clearly, if we have a Cybersecurity Centre that acts as a civil authority, then the intelligence service must of course be involved in cases where there are deliberate attacks and threats to national security, because that is their responsibility. If so, for example. However, placing the entire infrastructure around it here under the intelligence service seems to me to raise a number of quite fundamental questions, which is why it is in the same way as the Institute for Human Rights that we believe that the Cybersecurity Centre should be set up as a civil authority and not put it under a secret service.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103701	I understand that too, and of course I think it is right that we look into it. But if you think that it is being laid out in a civil authority, then the civil authority will also need to exchange information with other countries, and the civil authority will then perhaps have to move on to the FE and then on from there again, and it might be that it would be so difficult to see through if you did what you had to, because these are quite serious things that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103739	Well, that's obviously questions that can be raised. As far as I understand it may be that the Minister can respond to it, in other European countries it is not the case that it has been chosen everywhere to place this authority under the intelligence services. And if it can be done in other countries, which may also be considerably more threatened by this type of crash and attack than we are, then a solution should also be found in Denmark. But I hope that we will be able to clarify all this either during the committee reading of this bill or in the future process, as it is a four or five draft law I do not remember how many people need to be dealt with and who are all implementing it here. But we see it as an overall package, because it is, in fact, the same problem, whether it is, as in this case, about companies or some of what is dealt with in the other legislative proposals. So we're also going to talk in our own party across these different laws to decide if we can live with the way it eventually falls out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103829	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted for today's work, and welcome to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance and Midjyde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301103839	Thank you for that, President. Liberal Alliance IT rapporteur, sir. Joachim B. Olsen has no opportunity to be here today. I would now like to say that you may not need to be rapporteur in order to be able to think about the digitalisation that has happened in Danish society. With my age and experience, I have certainly witnessed a dramatic development in the whole of digitalisation, which involves a number of risks. There is a number of information that has suddenly been digitised and that we did not know years ago. It is therefore natural to raise awareness and legislation on how to ensure that social and financial transactions and information about citizens and businesses etc. safe and protected. Unfortunately, we have seen attacks from outside on our large companies that have paralysed them completely, which is why it is both necessary and right that, in the context of the European Union, we should look at how it can be implemented in all countries. This is then an element of it, and there are several elements, and there will probably also need more things over time. After all, we have also regularly adopted legislative proposals in the Danish Parliament, which have increased the digitisation between citizens and communities and between citizens and municipalities etc. The whole development of which we ourselves are part calls for increased attention, and this bill is such that we have given serious thought to it and are implementing the things that are now to be implemented in this bill. As other rapporteurs have said, the last word is probably not on this issue, but we can support the draft law as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301104025	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen and welcome to Mr Leif Mikkelsen. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301104033	I think that the legislative proposal itself has already been well examined, including the concerns surrounding it. As previous rapporteurs have said, this is a directive which deals precisely with this new threat, that is, the threat of cyberattacks, and one has been so clever to look at it across the European Union and has said that we need to work on this security. That's very reasonable. It is very sensible to do this in the area we are dealing with now and in the four other areas where this is being implemented. The problem is, of course, when we do this kind of thing, how we ensure data protection. That is what is, like, the standing question in this and the reason why we cannot indicate whether we are going to vote 'yes' or 'no' to it either. That is because it is a real problem. Questions have been asked, including in a number of the other committees dealing with this, and some of them will, of course, be applied in the same way as across this legislation. But I think it might be interesting to know from the Minister how it has been chosen to implement it in the other countries right in this area: does it happen every time under an intelligence service, as we do in Denmark, and with the challenges it presents in relation to data protection? And then we have asked a number of questions about the elements of the Secretary of Defense about the Cybersecurity Center and whether it can be separated from the Defence Intelligence Service, so it is subject to data protection rules. This is something that will also have a major impact on the way this bill is being dealt with. So it is an important directive that we are working on the implementation of right now, but there are still some serious issues and knots that need to be dealt with in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301104226	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left, Denmark's Social Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301104236	Thank you. One of the greatest threats to our time and to our society is the cyber-threat, and it is different from all sorts of other threats from outside, because we can think of them very territorially. We can think that here is a limit, and here is something we can defend. When it comes to cyber, it goes completely across borders, and the way we've thought about defenses in the past, we need to rethink. We may also be vulnerable in some very different places than we have been in the past. Crime will be different today. You can steal money from people, you can steal information, you can blackmail people in a completely different way because we have gone and become a digital society. And while we are reaping a lot of benefits from getting the new technologies, we have thus made ourselves very vulnerable throughout the cyber area. Therefore, there is also a need for the government to do things in the right order, in other words to come forward with its strategy against cybercrime and for cybersecurity, to have overall coordination of what the various ministries should do and get a unified picture so that you do not get a drip approach. If we have such an overall strategy, we can also have such an important discussion as several of the rapporteurs raise in today's debate: where should the Cybersecurity Centre, which is to gather many of these information, lie; should it be under the intelligence services with their rights? It can have some advantages, in terms of sharing confidential information with the intelligence services, and it will be possible to do more simply faster and safer, but it also has a huge disadvantage, which is that you cannot share it with the rest of society and that we cannot gain insight into it as citizens. I think it is very, very important that the people get a clear picture of what is going on at the moment and are allowed to be present in discussing where is my information; what kind of threat is this to me? So you get an understanding of this. So on the part of the Radical Left, we have been pushing for a long time for us to get this overall strategy from the government. I myself have had the Minister for Defence in consultation about getting a comprehensive strategy so that you can think things together before you start implementing these directives. Now, today, we are implementing the NIS directive and deciding that we can send information about incidents to the Cybersecurity Centre. We can, in principle, support this from the Radical Left, but we would like to continue the discussion, as several rapporteurs have done today, about where the Cybersecurity Centre should then lie. It could be considered by our defense rapporteur, Mr. Martin Lidegaard suggested the other day that the Center for Cybersecurity be placed as a civilian unit under the FE, where there is simply another kind of insight into it. This is a proposal on which we would like to hear the views of the government. So we think that the discussion that has been raised by several rapporteurs today is quite relevant. We think it would be good if we could take a few steps deeper into it, but we naturally welcome the implementation of an important directive from the European Union to secure this information in the field of business too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301104541	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments. And I would like to extend a warm welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301104559	As my fellow Members have said, this bill is part of the implementation of what is called the NIS directive, and it is about protection against one of the biggest challenges we are currently facing: attacks on our security in the digital field; hacker attacks; attacks on critical infrastructure; and the part of the NIS that falls within the remit of the Minister of Business; so what we are discussing today. However, as several of my colleagues have said, it is in four different areas of the resort that this is being discussed, and the basically jumping point that I and several of my colleagues have asked about is where it should ultimately lie, where should this contact point, CSIRT, lie? This is a question of principle which goes back to all four areas of the resort, so we will also ask more questions about it. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who ignores the threat that may exist in that we become a more and more digitalised society, and that we can only do so if the people also trust that we ensure their information, their security, and that we set up a framework to safeguard our critical infrastructure. We have seen examples of countries and individuals making more or less refined attacks on large Danish companies and on our infrastructure. So the concern expressed by several of us has nothing to do with ignoring the real threat, but rather with the question of how we deal with these huge amounts of data that end up having to lie in a certain place, that is, this contact point, CSIRT, which is proposed to be placed under the Cybersecurity Centre, which is part of the Defence Intelligence Service. The Defence Intelligence Service is, of course, exempt from the Public Act, the Personal Data Act and parts of the Administrative Act, and therefore there are some challenges, both in relation to what citizens and companies have of rights, but also in relation to the fact that we as Parliament do not have political control over what lies there. This is something we need to discuss more, because with the implementation of the NIS directive it is stated that there should be a contact point, a CSIRT, but not where it should lie specifically, and there, like several of my colleagues, I am interested in how to do it in other countries. Where to put it, to ensure that there is both confidentiality and security, while at the same time it does not become a state in the state where there is an incredible amount of data that we do not know or cannot control how is handled? Then there is a smaller, but still an important part, I think. This, in turn, is one of the legislative proposals which must be implemented to a large extent by means of announcements. I think that's a bit of a slippery slope. I understand, in part, the argument that this is happening, as it is easier in this way to implement some legislation that has to follow up on this directive. But I agree with the criticism that has come from, among other things. Danish Industry, DI Digital and DIFO, that it makes it unclear what this legislation will look like when you write into the comments to the bill that a large part of it will be implemented through announcements. That is what I want to say about it today. In line with several of my colleagues, we cannot say 'yes' or 'no' either. We think this is very, very important, but it is a jumping point that we get this contact point where all the information comes in, in an area that is exempt from political control and some of the most basic legislation we have, about our data protection, about the Public Service Act, about the Administrative Act, about having just a little knowledge of what happens to this data material and whether it might be passed on to third parties. This is something we need to discuss in committee before we can also say by the SF whether we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301105038	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Anders Johansson from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301105052	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are discussing, as several previous rapporteurs have mentioned, aims to implement the NIS directive in the areas of the Ministry of Industry, and the purpose of the NIS directive is, of course, to strengthen IT security throughout the EU, so that countries become less vulnerable to cyber attacks and crashes of IT systems. The bill ensures a high level of network and information security in the digital area and services, creating more robust digital systems. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very positive about the digitalisation of our society. Digitalisation helps to create a more efficient society, more competitive and thus also a richer society. Technological development has come to stay, and that is why we believe it is important that Danish society should be as good as it is possible to seize the opportunities and exploit the opportunities that digitalisation offers us. It is good for society and thus also good for the individual Dane. Of course, the increased dependence on digital solutions and increased data from both private and important social actors also mean that we become more vulnerable to system breaches and cyber attacks. Therefore, it is also very important that we focus on how to make our IT systems as secure as possible. IT systems operate internationally, and therefore there is also a need for uniform cross-border legislation, also for the exchange of information between intelligence services and authorities, so that IT criminals or others cannot speculate on attacks against the weakest link in the chain. With the NIS directive, we are introducing a common standard for the EU countries, and in this respect I also think it is worth noting that the Danish coinage is as close as possible to the directive. This is important so that we do not impose unnecessary burdens on Danish companies compared to those they compete with in the EU. With those comments, I would just like to say that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301105255	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no brief comments, and then the trip has come to the Minister for Business. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301105306	Thank you for your many comments. IT security incidents, which could be cyber attacks, IT system crashes, are basically a serious threat to our society. Unfortunately, the scale, frequency and consequences of such incidents are increasing and, at the same time, more and more economic and societal activities are, after all, dependent on digital systems and services. It is therefore essential that digital infrastructure and services are protected against cybercrime and IT security incidents. IT security is therefore also one of the focus areas of the newly presented strategy for Denmark's digital growth. A sufficient level of IT security must support the vision that Denmark will also be a digital frontrunner in the future. The bill here is part of the government's overall efforts in this area. The draft law, as several have mentioned, implements the EU directive on network and information security in critical sectors of society, the so-called NIS Directive, in the field of the Ministry of Industry. The proposal proposes introducing requirements on network and information security for operators of essential services in parts of the digital infrastructure. More specifically, it will be faced with administrators of top-level domain names such as: .dk.dk. Larger operators of so-called domain name systems are also included in the proposal. The bill also includes IT security requirements for digital providers of online search engines, online platforms and cloud computing services. Finally, the draft law lays down requirements for IT security to essential operators, such as: money and mortgage institutions, in the financial sector, which specify the requirements to which the sector is already subject. A key principle in terms of IT security, and therefore also in the legislative proposal, is that companies covered by the bill should carry out a risk analysis. It is the responsibility of the company to decide on the specific measures to be implemented on the basis of the risk analysis and to address the identified risks. This helps to make systems more robust against attacks and will contribute overall to a higher level of network and information security. However, we cannot avoid the fact that, unfortunately, there will also be IT security incidents in the future. Therefore, in order to counteract cross-sectoral and cross-border cascade effects, companies that have been subject to a significant IT security incident are required to report the incident to relevant authorities. Reports shall be made, inter alia: to address ongoing events and prevent new incidents in the future. In order to make it as easy as possible for enterprises to report IT security incidents and minimise the administrative burdens associated with them, a common entry for alerts shall be established. If an IT incident has significant consequences for citizens and companies in Denmark, it follows from the bill that the sectoral authority can provide concrete public information about the incident so that citizens and companies can take the necessary steps in cyberattacks. Publication will take place after consultation of the undertaking concerned, taking into account the protection of sensitive personal data. The draft law, together with similar legislative proposals in the other ministerial areas covered by the NIS Directive, will contribute to increasing IT security in community critical network and information systems, thereby increasing the resilience of Danish society to cybercrime and other IT security incidents. There were some specific questions here at first reading, and we will, of course, try to answer them in committee when specific questions are asked about it. So thank you for the words so far and I look forward to a constructive discussion in the committee on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301105715	Thank you, Minister. His speech did not challenge the rapporteurs. So since no one else has asked for the floor, the negotiations have thus been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301105739	The negotiations have been opened. The first to speak is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301105756	Thank you for the floor and the opportunity to explain the government's position on B6, which is one of four motions for resolutions on the introduction of different tax deductions designed to improve conditions for creative and performing artists in Denmark. On Tuesday we discussed the first proposal, B-4, to extend the scope for deduction of travel expenses for performers. Unfortunately, I had forgotten my papers, I regret that, but I managed to explain the government's position on the proposal, which was that we could not support B4. Today we must continue the debate by examining the next three proposals. And with B 6, artist allowance for creative artists, Enhedslisten proposes to introduce an artist allowance for the first 100,000 DKK. per years that an artist has earned by selling his own unique works of art for which the artist owns the intellectual property rights. As I said during the debate on Tuesday, the government supports a rich and diverse cultural life and culture throughout Denmark, and I, like a number of other rapporteurs, find it refreshing when Enhedslisten interferes with the tax debate and makes proposals for new deductions. I would like to commend and acknowledge that Enhedslisten is throwing himself into the fight for creative tax deductions. Creative artists, however, already have very special opportunities to obtain financial support for their artistic activities. They can seek support from the Danish Arts Foundation, which distributed more than 0.5 billion in 2018. kr., of which just under 100 million. kr. were awarded as scholarships and work grants. And if additional state funds are given to artists, it is my view and that of the government that this should be done in the context of negotiations on the Finance Act. In this connection, I should like to remind you that 74 million have actually been set aside. kr. to new cultural initiatives under the adopted Financial Act 2018. The government's position is that we should not support cultural life through additional special allowances, but through the Finance Act and in a priority in line with a number of other things: health, the elderly, primary school. It is one of the government's priorities to reduce the tax for everyone in employment and to make sure that it pays better to work regardless of what you work with. We have also taken steps to do so in connection with the tax agreement concluded between the government and the Danish People's Party. But it's not part of the deal to make this special deduction to artists, as Enhedslisten suggests. And in view of the fact that we do not believe that this is the best way to support performers, but want to do so above the Finance Act and our other support system, the State Arts Fund, I must say that the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110105	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110107	Thank you. Again, as on Tuesday, thank you for the positive attitude. If we can figure something out in relation to the Finance Act, we'd be happy to do so. Well, this way of financing it is not a cardinal point for us, so if we can do it with an aid scheme instead, then it should not separate us. Then there was just one thing I did not understand, because it was as if the tax minister were almost told that more money had been set aside in the field of culture in the forthcoming Finance Act. Does this mean that the harvester no longer exists? And if the green harvester exists and there is generally a 2% cut. In all places, could the Secretary of State tell us about the overall reduction in the cultural sector for the current year?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110201	The amount I mentioned relates to the new initiatives relating to culture, which we politically prioritise in the Finance Act. Then it is true that the cultural sector, like a number of other areas, is affected by the re-priority contribution, where 2% must be found at all times. What the balance is between the two figures is, I cannot explain here today, but I would very much like to do so in a written reply to Mr Beazley. Søren Søndergaard. After all, it is not tax conditions and money alone that determine how much culture we get. When we have a re-priority contribution in the field of culture and in a number of other areas, it is because, when we constantly look at how we spend money and re-prioritize, we also support the fact that we spend money effectively. In this way, as in a number of other areas, we can hopefully have a situation where we get more culture for money when we constantly look at how our budgets are put together, so that it is not just the same amount that runs year after year. It is, of course, about how much money we spend on culture, but it is also about how we spend it and what we spend it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110309	What is of course the pity of the reply given by the Minister is that the Minister does not relate to the intention of the proposal, namely to the need. It is clear that the need mentioned here and in the forthcoming proposals to support art and culture cannot, of course, be reconciled with a general reduction in this area. That goes without saying. You can't get an actor to run stronger, well, or a singer to sing faster, you might, but it doesn't sound so good. So it's a little important, of course, how much this government stands to cut in the field of culture this year. After all, we are going to be here for a few hours, probably over lunch, so I look forward to hearing from the Minister at a later point how much this government has actually cut back on culture in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110405-2	Sir. Søren Søndergaard is right that a choir doesn't get any better because there are fewer participants to sing in the choir, just as a symphony orchestra doesn't get any better either by having two winds less. But it is possible, when looking at a budget, to optimise the budget. This applies to a private enterprise, and it applies to a public institution. Now the Danish Radio's Entertainment Orchestra, which no longer, but part of the discussion when Denmark's Radio decided to close it down, is that a lot of money was saved because people were civil servants, i.e. employees. they had three years' full pay if they were dismissed. There you may wonder whether you should have civil servants in, for example. a orchestra, because if you choose another form of employment, which is more common, you get the same good orchestra, but you have a smaller cost. It is therefore possible to optimise both in the cultural field and in other areas. And I will look forward to answering Mr. Søren Søndergaard's question later when considering one of the following proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110511	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110513	Thank you. The Minister said two things that I would like to ask about. Firstly, there are these new initiatives which the Minister boasted a little about taking for culture: is it direct support for creative artists or is it for institutions? That is quite crucial in relation to this proposal. The second is that it is most sensible to support through the Danish Arts Foundation. Is it not true that the State Arts Foundation has been cut a few times since this government has taken office and that the opportunities for support for creative artists have thus diminished?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110550	I simply cannot answer whether the State Arts Foundation has been cut back. I don't recall. Then it has to be as part of the overall re-prioritisation contribution of 2%, but we can follow up on that. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist asks about the new initiatives. It's a whole host of different things. In addition to being a tax minister, I have been elected in the northern part of the country, in North Jutland, and there you have a project that I myself have been involved in, called REGAN Vest, where you want to turn a cold war bunker into a museum about the Cold War and put it on the Finance Act. That is, of course, support for an institution that leads to an exhibition. I am sure that some of the initiatives will help to support the performers if not directly, then indirectly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110642	Now, of course, this proposal concerns the creative artists, and the problem with the way in which the current government works on cultural budgets is to cut back on support for and reduce the conditions of creative artists, instead of supporting institutions such as the initiative that the Minister has mentioned. So I think it is worth considering what is of new initiatives for creative artists in particular. Then it is that the Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal here, and it is good that we agree, as a starting point, that we should support the creative artists. But then it is interesting to see how the government really intends to do so, because that is not what we have seen so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110720	We want good conditions for cultural life and also for creative artists, but 0.5 billion. kr. a year in the Danish Arts Foundation, 0.5 billion. kr. kr. I believe that if you compare the conditions of the creative artists in Denmark with those of a number of other countries, you will come to the conclusion that we have very good conditions for our artistic and cultural life. The government also discusses whether to give more money to the creative artists as part of the budget negotiations. But we don't support this targeted deduction that is being proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110754	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110755	As rapporteur for the budget, I would like to say that we are looking forward to the invitation to special cultural negotiations in connection with next year's Finance Act. What led me to take the floor was that the Minister was, as it were, told that the Enhedslisten is generally against lower taxes. We're not. We are in favour of lower taxes on lower incomes both for the people who are in the labour market today and for those who have been there all their lives, for example. The pensioners. Maybe this is where the difference between us and the government is. Another difference is that we would like to finance our tax concessions, for example. in that those who have received the really big discounts in recent years may return a little to the box. But having said that, one must also recognise that art and creative artists are, after all, another group. It has never been the case in the history of the world that we could have a rich art life without some form of support. Clean market conditions do not create a rich art life, if I may say so. There's gotta be some kind of patronage in there. This proposal is to ensure it, but in a way that frees the artists, so that there are no wise Copenhageners sitting inside the Danish Arts Foundation and distributing the money, but so it is actually some who follow it if you are able to create art that is demanded and that wins success. It should be easy for the government to support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301110921	There are, after all, special tax rules on works of art which can be bought and deducted as a company, a private individual or other. We simply disagree that we should go further along this path. Then I would like to say that I know the political starting point of the Enhedslisten, that it will help to reduce the tax on the lowest incomes, and I respect that. But if you look at how Enhedslisten has voted, you can see that Enhedslisten's otherwise talented tax rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund, just to find an excuse not to vote green for the government's tax relief proposal. But I will look forward to seeing Mr. Pelle Dragsted will vote for tax cuts, because it is tax cuts that go targeted to those with the lowest incomes at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111011	What is being said is absolutely wrong, because the lowest incomes we have in Denmark, for example, are. In the case of old-age pensions, the minimum benefits are paid, and they are paid around zero out of the tax reliefs that are granted here. If we do not vote in favour, probably not in favour of the other parts, this is due to the funding, which has been taken out of the pockets of, among others, Mr President. Some of the poorest unemployed in Denmark. However, I would like to ask the question of principle. In other words, what lies in this proposal is in relation to support through the Danish Arts Foundation, which we have called a kind of freedom letter. It is, of course, that you sort of get an even longer arm's length principle, because it is in this sense a support for those artists who are successful in putting aside the art they create, but who can then earn a little more from it, especially those who start and have the lowest incomes, so that they can get started. What does the Minister think of the idea itself, that is, the idea of going a different way than through an art fund, where there are some people sitting there to judge whether this is good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111109	I feel drawn to make a small service announcement. It is the case that you have up to 1 minute, i.e.. 60 seconds, to the first brief remark and up to 1⁄2 minute, i.e. Thirty seconds to the other one. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111121	You get help with it over time, because there's such a counter that counts down, but it can be hard to keep when you have a lot on your mind, whether you're asking or answering. In principle, I think that is some interesting thoughts, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted comes along in relation to whether, instead of the Danish Arts Foundation, you could have some other things, where it is more the free will and the market that help to control it than some who sit and distribute some money. But it is outside my competence to give an undertaking that this room will enter the government. Pelle Dragsted ask the Minister of Culture. And until the Minister for Culture answers, the government's position is that we reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111203	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111207	Thank you to the Minister for explaining the government's position on this matter. That's fair. I'd like to ask you about the economics thing. We have had wise people to figure out what it has actually made of savings in the whole cultural field under the current government, and a figure of approx. 640 million kr. Then people are sitting out at the speakers here today and hearing that now the government is putting 73 million. kr. Upstairs. Would it not be fair enough for us to have the discussion, which was based on net figures? And then the Minister has to correct my 640 million. kr., if it should be like this at the top end. However, it is not right for the public to give the impression that we are spending more money when the reality is that we are spending less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111303	You have to listen to what's being said. What I said in my speech was 74 million. kr. • new cultural policy initiatives. Then it is true that there is a change of priority contribution, but for most cultural institutions, when you look at the budget, you can see that you can optimize different places, and then you should be able to deliver the same amount of culture for these 2%. less a year. It is, of course, an increase in efficiency, and efficiency can lead to the firing of a member of a symphony orchestra. Then it has an effect on culture, I admit, but it could also be that it would lead to more sensible terms of employment for those who were employed in the symphony orchestra or to a better rental agreement in relation to rental costs. So I do not compare how much money we spend on culture and how much culture we get. That is why I think it is fair to have both a re-priority contribution to culture and, at the same time, to give priority to some new initiatives in the Finance Act, and I would like to look at it, but now we have to see whether it can be achieved here by one of the subsequent proposals to get the figure of how the amount we spend on culture has developed overall since the government arrived in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111417	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111419	What I am just asking for is to get the government or the minister to introduce such a net principle of what the real economic conditions are about a particular resort area. The citizens now get the impression that 73 million are now being added. kr. In addition, and the conditions are, of course, that somewhere around 600 million will be cut. I do not think it is fair to give the impression that you spend more money when the reality is that you spend less, and I look forward to the Minister telling us what a figure is really.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111501	I look forward to seeing the financial bill of the Social Democratic Party, which says that the re-priority contribution will be rolled back, because, on the other hand, I think it is rather hollow when the Social Democracy criticises the government, and they do so in a number of areas, in order not to give priority to some things. When you open up the financial bill of the Social Democratic Party, you cannot see that the Social Democrats themselves give priority to money for these things. So the questioner can look forward to answering the question, and hopefully I can look forward to seeing the financial act of the Social Democracy, which prioritises and rolls back the re-priority contribution and prioritises culture. I haven't seen that so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111542	Thank you to the Minister, and with regard to my service announcement I can justifiably say that it is not the Minister who exceeds the times today. He's got 9 minutes standing in his account to this point. However, as there are no further brief comments, we thank the Minister. The first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Orla Sea of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301111612	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I was able to hear that the Minister had made a little mistake without his papers for the first of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. I was even worse off, I did not reach the Chamber at all, which I am deeply sorry about. But the melody will be much the same with regard to the proposals that are on the table here today. With motion for a resolution B 6, Enhedslisten wants to introduce an artist allowance which will allow creative artists a tax credit of the first DKK 100,000. per years on the sale of own unique works of art. And the aim, as the Minister has also explained, is to support the conditions for the income base of creative artists. There is no doubt that it is difficult to be a creative artist. It is difficult to get through, and it is difficult to make a living from the art one is passionate about. So we are happy to admit that in recent years art and culture have been under pressure that can be felt, and therefore it is also quite fair that Enhedslisten has put forward the series of proposals that we are discussing today, thereby creating debate on the conditions of art and culture. So we have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal, but, like the Minister, we are also not prepared to introduce special deduction schemes targeted at specific groups, which is what is being proposed. It also opens the way for many other groups in a particular situation to be able to argue that they should have different conditions and better conditions. So we are not prepared to do so. In addition, I would like to make a few comments on the funding that the Enhedslisten will use for this purpose. That's about 100 million. kr., which the proposal is intended to cost. Firstly, it is a great deal of money, and secondly, it is a great deal of money to spend on a special scheme which only benefits a small group. And it is our view that it is not the right priority for new funds in the field of culture if they could be found. In a situation where there is money for distribution, the starting point must be to give wider, necessary and solidarity priority, and we have said from the Socialist side that we will give priority to welfare first. And, of course, we will put it through and stick to it. We recognise that art and culture also belong to the welfare segment, so we exclude not spending money in the cultural field, but we exclude the introduction of a system such as this one, which is based on special arrangements for individual groups. We share the view about the residence and gift tax that Enhedslisten has looked at for the scheme here. We certainly do not believe this to make Denmark richer, but it is part of our 2025 plan that we want to spend that money on some other things, for example. A reform of skills, better growth reform and a fairer strengthening of welfare and of our public sector. So it's a priority issue. Regardless of the good intentions of the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, we find it inappropriate to introduce special arrangements targeted at specific groups, nor do we agree with the way it is to be financed, so we cannot support the resolution. However, we have a warm heart for the area of culture, and this will also be part of the priority we might be able to make in the context of financial law negotiations and a possible new government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112036	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112039	Thank you. I therefore understand what the Socialist rapporteur says about giving priority to welfare. That is why I think it should also be said, as the rapporteur does, that this scheme is precisely targeted at the most disadvantaged artists who sell things like artists who are interested in their works but who are so poorly paid that they do not have the opportunity to do the next works. So it is also welfare policy in relation to the most disadvantaged group. So I would like to say to the argument about the tax credit: I'm sorry, what voted the Social Democracy when it came to tax credits for people who had won medals at the Olympics and World Championships? Was it something that the Social Democratic Party rejected, on the grounds that special groups should not have a tax credit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112132	Thank you for the question. All I have to say is, sir... Søren Søndergaard can easily say that this is also about the welfare of a group that is having a difficult time. We recognise that point of view, but it must be kept up with what Mr Enhedslisten's second rapporteur has said in this area today, namely that there is also a group of pensioners who are in a very difficult situation. So that's why we find it wrong to pick, let's say, individual groups out. We need to look at where we are hitting those who have the most difficulty in our society and where it is that welfare will be most well spent, but we do not find that taken out of a context there is something about in this motion for a resolution. We voted in favour of the Olympic medal tax exemption, i.e. the tax exemption in that area, and we did so because what was not in the order of hundreds of millions of kroner, and it was an acknowledgment, compared to some who had made a very good effort to represent Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112248	Yeah, but I just think the last thing that kind of reflects the whole problem. There are lots of deductions in the Danish tax law • I have taken a bunch of examples of this with which the Social Democratic Party has supported. There are plenty, including for millionaires, that is, sports stars, who are already millionaires and who may even even live in tax havens. So you can find money for them, but here you reject it with a fundamental argument, and I simply cannot make that fit in my head. I understand that they say that priority will be given to something else, and we look forward to discussing with the Social Democratic Party under a future new government what the other should be and how it should be. So I understand that part, but I don't understand the other part.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112340	So, in connection with the Olympic medals, I just have to say that there is a need to vote in favour of a principle. Then there are some where it is more well placed, where you have a small sport, which you represent, and certainly not much money, and we have a greater heart for that than we have for them, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentions there, we should say, already has good revenue. But one has to look at the fact that there is a principle, that is, whether we want to support people who have won medals at the Olympics or whether we do not want to. We cannot choose and say that we will give it, and we will not give it. That is the way it must be. So, of course, we are not arguing, but we would also like to stick to the fact that we want to give the money where it is doing the most good, and they are not doing so with this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112436	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112437	It was kind of the same thing that brought me to the microphone, i.e. that the Social Democrats should not support tax advantages for special groups. A change has just been made to the North Sea tax, which sends millions in tax rebates after a very few specific oil companies, and a number of major growth packages have been implemented in connection with the latest government, which have directly and consciously and declared to have benefited certain groups in the business world, for example. gardens, and I could sort of go on. It is also the case today that there is a deduction for purchases of art from companies. I think the Social Democrats have also supported this, and we do not want to give immediate support to abolishing it. However, it is just to say that there are a lot of deductions, and this is a deduction which will specifically and directly improve the conditions for creative artists and which, moreover, exists in a number of other European countries, among others. Ireland, with very good results.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112543	If I had been in the situation that I had been a minister, it could be said that it would have been easier to say that this does not fall within the area of culture. But now we have ventured into a field where culturalists are discussing tax matters, and that makes it a rather peculiar discussion. But when we have contributed to various growth packages, where you can pull some out, it has been because we have been able to see that it had a broader purpose, which helped to create a better basis for strengthening Denmark and creating jobs and generating income for Denmark. So that has been the assessment we have taken into account in our deliberations. We have great sympathy, including for young artists who want to get through, but we just don't think this proposal is the best in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112643	Perhaps it is there that is the more fundamental debate on cultural policy. So what is it that strengthens a country? Is it to be able to export something more, to increase the marginal price of pork by a few cents? Or is it to have an exuberant art and culture environment in relation to Danish art, and also in relation to creating a future that includes jobs and growth and everything else? It depends on how narrow you look at the economy. There has been a dull trend over the last few decades, and now the financial rapporteur speaks to have too narrow a view of how to create development and jobs in different societies and what development is at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112734	Well, we can take that discussion about what it is that is necessary for one thing and the other. In other words, we basically believe that we must allow people to have good jobs and good education as a prerequisite for them to enjoy art and culture and to take part in it. Art and culture are not just whipped cream on it, but it is also part of the daily life we should like to have the opportunity to live. But cut right to the bone, we must say that we give priority to bread and permanent work on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112813	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. There are no more brief comments. In this way, I welcome Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301112819	Thank you, President. We are discussing Enhedslisten's proposal to introduce a deduction for creative artists. I can already reveal that the Danish People's Party does not intend to support the proposal, and we do not do so for several different reasons. Firstly, we are not particularly pleased with the funding. After all, it goes beyond the housing and gift tax for generational shifts in business. The Danish People's Party is in that agreement and we are happy with that agreement. Furthermore, we see no reason to introduce special tax rules for artists. So to the end, and there I have to read something from the motion for a resolution, which is a little strange. It is written under "Examples," and I read: "A young artist has made a work that brings her a year's income of DKK 150,000. Since this cannot finance her continuing work on a new work, she has a job as a taxi driver to secure her life base. This makes it impossible for her to have the time necessary to create the next work. She's in a vicious circle. "She's in a vicious circle..." "Enhedslisten thinks you're in a vicious circle because you're taking an unskilled job!" In the Danish People's Party we just have a different approach to it. It's a good thing you take a job. It is always meaningful to take a job if it is that you cannot earn the necessities of life through your interests or through your education. Then why am I saying that? I myself have worked 5 years in a factory while building up my lecture, publishing and cultural activities. After five years, I could quit the factory, because then I could make a living. There is nothing as good for artists and for people in general as meeting reality. So we are actually somewhat surprised that a party that calls itself a working party can talk about an artist being in a vicious circle because at times he has to work with things other than his art. We fundamentally disagree with that premise, and I hope it is a slip. So we cannot support the proposal, regrettable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113059	There is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113101	No, it is certainly not a lapsus, because the vicious circle does not mean that you have to take taxi work. Well, I've also been working at the factory while giving lectures around the country, but there were things I couldn't do, and there were probably things, too, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen couldn't do it because he was forced to spend a great deal of his time getting a living. And that's fine, if that's what you've chosen, but if you're in a situation where you're doing a work of art, an invention, or what I know, then it's a really good thing that if there's interest, because we're only talking about people who have actually sold something during a transition period, there's a possibility that you can get some peace to do the next work of art. This may seem totally ridiculous, but it is no more ridiculous than that this proposal has also come from the Conservative People's Party, or at least from a member of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader. He just meant that it should be the State's education aid that should finance it for a period of time. But the very fact that, when you have shown your talent and have been able to sell something, you get quiet to do the next work, isn't it a bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113220	Well, it's actually a bad idea when it's the state that's supposed to secure it. I come to think of the great, unfortunately late Italian writer Primo Levi, who worked as a chemical engineer and wrote his works on Sundays • great works; works which today are classics. I'm also thinking about Gustav Mahler. He wrote his great symphonies during his summer vacation and then worked the rest of the time in other ways to support his expensive wife and his family. So I actually think it's kind of a strange attitude to have to things. You can easily create art if you want, and the state does not have to make a special artist allowance available to the artists. So it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113313	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113314	Now I get interested. Is it a general view of the Danish People's Party in relation to any form of art support that the artists should simply not be supported? Support can be given to buildings, and as the Dansk Folkeparti has also supported it, support can be given to companies that buy art, for large companies with billions of turnover must of course be deducted to buy art, but there must be no support for artists because you can easily make art, even if you have another job next door. Is this how I should understand the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113359	No, that's not how it's supposed to be. I refer only to the proposal for an artist allowance of DKK 100,000. per year for 5 years. We cannot support this and then I have given some examples of how great art can easily be created in your spare time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113422	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113433	Thank you. Thank you also for the exciting debate... not least the previous debate between Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten. I would like to tell you that I very much agree with what the Danish People's Party's cultural rapporteur said about the idea of having a job while at the same time exercising one's role as an artist. Nor do we in the Left see anything negative in that. Now we are in the Left simple people and not highly cultural, as you are in the Danish People's Party, so the example I was thinking about was Shu-bi-dua, where the members, when the first many records were recorded, kept their work as a dentist, journalist, etc., because they wanted to see if it could bear and if it was something they could live on. Turns out they could. So the fact that you have a job next to being an artist is not necessarily a bad thing and certainly not something that we would describe as a vicious circle, as Enhedslisten does in his motion for a resolution. I would also like to repeat what I said on Tuesday: that, of course, somewhere I am delighted, and it is of course also a bit ridiculous to Enhedslisten that one recognises in the Enhedslisten that a tax deduction can mean something for people's business, and I dare not even suggest Enhedslisten that one abolishes the party tax in their party, because it could lead to a lot of new members of the party who would fight to get into the Danish Parliament................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If we look directly at the proposal on the artist allowance, I would say that I have to repeat a lot of what I said the other day, namely that we have a little difficulty in seeing why we should take out a group, namely artists, and give them special tax advantages over all sorts of others, who may also be building a company, or what I know. So we also have some other means. We have among other things. the support from the Danish Arts Foundation, which has a distribution pool of more than 500 million. kr. in 2018. We in the Left want to reduce the tax, but we want to do that for everyone in employment, so that it will pay better to work, and that will of course also apply to artists, but also to people who have all kinds of other jobs. And with our latest tax agreement, I think we are moving in the right direction, and if Enhedslisten wants to take part in those negotiations, I would be delighted. As I have said, we do not believe that a particular professional group should have special tax advantages, as the Enhedslisten proposes, and therefore we cannot vote in favour of the resolution, but we are looking forward to a new tax policy discourse on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113735	It gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113738	In fact, I also think that what artists need to have in order to produce art is a very fundamental and interesting discussion. In the United States, for example, it is. so that many of the actors on Broadway have work next door. Does this mean that we should look forward to a suggestion that the actors of the Royal Theatre should not be paid because they can just serve a day or drive a taxi a day? For there is no reason why they should concentrate on their art; they can easily do so while making money alongside them. So on the question of taking out a special group: does this mean that I can expect to receive the support of the Left if we are now going to propose the abolition of fishermen's deductions for sea days?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113827	Now, sir, he's moving. Søren Søndergaard out of a key: What if? In the circus, the artists sell popcorn during the break; the actors do not do so at the Royal Theatre. Well, this doesn't mean we think it would be a good idea for the actors at the Royal Theatre to do the same to complement the shepherd that way around. So, I think you might have to be careful with driving things too far out of a tangle. Then Enhedslisten asks a question about fishermen. This is an issue which I think should be addressed to the Fisheries rapporteur, who, contrary to me, is certainly deeply involved in these matters, because that is not what the constituents of Frederiksberg are most concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301113914	I must admit that I do not think that the blue lines of the Left are very clear on this issue. First there was a great praise to the Danish People's Party, and of course artists can do great art and at the same time have a job next to it, but apparently not the artists at the Royal Theatre. I don't really understand the point of view, but leave it alone. Well, the sea days were purely because the rapporteur was up on the high horse and told us that there would be no deduction to specific groups, and then there would actually be a deduction to fishermen to go to sea. I mean, if a fisherman goes fishing, he gets a special deduction. And then it would be obvious if we really had the view that there should be no deduction to particular groups, that we wanted it to be abolished. I have just not heard the Left suggest that, but it may have something to do with the special contacts of the Left with the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301114013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301114013-2	I know so much about fishing that you have to go to sea to catch the fish. I'm not that ignorant. I therefore believe that the Enhedslisten should table a motion for a resolution to remove that deduction, and then that is something that we will be discussing in this Chamber. But unfortunately, I must apologize to Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, that I will hardly be the rapporteur on that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301114035	Thank you, sir. Jan Ejnar Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301114049	Thank you. We can now risk repeating ourselves on a number of proposals here today, which have been put forward by Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard with more, that's the way it is. It is very good to shed light on this issue, because in the real world it can be said that these people who are talking about are, in a sense, self-employed entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, people who are trying to make an effort and get a livelihood. It is not always easy, and we must actually pay attention to helping in a dynamic society. Then it is suggested that this should be done by means of a special arrangement for these groups. Basically, this is a disgusting criticism of our tax system, because we actually pay too much in tax and thus do not have enough left for ourselves. This is a problem that the Liberal Alliance is very concerned about, and I would therefore be delighted if we could at some point get along with the Enhedslisten to do something serious about it. In fact, in the 2025 plan of the Liberal Alliance, we proposed that no one should pay taxes on the first DKK 7,000 earned in the month. You didn't have to pay taxes and benefits to others until you kind of had a basis for self-sufficiency. Then you can discuss how long you can do for it, but it was, after all, a proposal. We have not seen support for this from the Enhedslisten, as I recall. But it is, in fact, a possible way to go. Because I agree with Mr. Søren Søndergaard in that we have enough patch solutions, we have enough special arrangements, and we actually often talk about having a simplified tax system so that we could all figure out on the back of a napkin what we have to pay in tax. A party that could really implement it, I think could actually become the largest party at all. But we have many bad examples. One example that I would like to draw attention to is the strange research scheme we have where a number of athletes run around on a research scheme in Denmark. If they've been abroad for enough time, they can come back, and then they can drive around that scheme for five years. And it is perhaps not even people who do not earn very well that we have such a patching-up solution for. Our tax system is so foolish in comparison with others that the alternative was that they would not be in Denmark at all. That is what is at the heart; it is our tax system; we are overtaxing and charging taxes to distribute and manage, and so we have a huge cost of making the distribution policy we are making. And that is why it is the more fundamental that we have to tackle it. We think it's okay to throw light on this, but it's kind of just symptom treatment we're trying to do. And there we would much rather have a more fundamental both discussion and solution that no matter who you are, whether you are an artist or what you want to do, an employee, a pensioner, then there is like a basis you have for yourself before you have to distribute to everyone else. It could be a thought we could go into. Unfortunately, there are many bad examples of special arrangements being made, and Mr. Søren Søndergaard has also mentioned that with tax exemption for prizes for special athletes etc. I have spent a lot of my time in sport and I think there could be a lot of good going on there. But that kind of solution is kind of weird to look at, I just want to say. Finally, there is the funding proposed in this proposal. It is a roll back a very good proposal, which has been adopted and which should be implemented more effectively; there should be no inheritance and residence tax at all. That is why it is quite wrong to go that way with funding. However, the sharp observer who has listened to what I have said now has probably understood that we do not support the proposal, so I just have to say it just in case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301114441	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen for this emphasis and for the speech. There are no brief comments, and we shall therefore move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301114455	I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for highlighting something really important with the proposals we are discussing today and the one that we discussed on Tuesday, which is about the conditions we offer to our performing and creative artists, and this proposal is now precisely about how we provide the best opportunities for our creative artists to live on their art. We heard the Minister brag about new initiatives, but it is not initiatives that go to the creative artists, because the vast majority of these initiatives are targeted at the institutions, in other words the bricks. And when we see a financial law that unfortunately contains cuts in the State Arts Fund, which is the direct support for creative artists, and when we see a cultural life under pressure, we have to look at how we really strengthen the position of something as crucial as art and culture in our society. For it is therefore part of the core welfare, and it helps to create a good society, the cohesion of our society, that we move as a society, and that is where we need art and culture. Then there are a number of rapporteurs who have said that it is quite awful that we want to make special arrangements here for creative artists, and I have to say that we do so all the time in all sorts of different things, when we see that there is a special need, and right now there is therefore a special need to strengthen the opportunities for our creative artists. In addition to making a deduction for the money they earn, that is to say, strengthening the part, it can also help to strengthen the whole creative profession around the artists and create what is otherwise something we usually rejoice about, namely growth, and the whole creative industry both in Denmark and in Europe has huge opportunities to grow. So thank you very much to Enhedslisten for focusing on this important area. The alternative clearly supports this proposal too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301114721	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301114729	Thank you. After all, we had a parallel debate yesterday on another proposal that is moving on the same ball street that we could support. We cannot support this proposal, but we can then support one of the others we are discussing today, but we very much welcome this discussion. As I said yesterday, we are also very concerned about the balance between cultural institutions and the performers and creative artists, because these are two different things. The appeal we have against this proposal is one of them. the financing. We also have other good ideas about what could be spent 100 million. kr. To, also elsewhere, we take the money from. That's one part of it. That's a pretty big amount. But the second is also about the demarcation of the group. I'm not quite sure it's the right cut. In this way it could actually be reduced. I think that there is a big difference between talking about groups which, in fact, traditionally do not publish a work as a painting and sell it, but are hired on contracts. I am not sure that they need such a tax credit scheme to the same extent as, for example, the United Kingdom. A visual artist has. Now we are not going to be too private, but I am married to a theatre director myself, and of course it is a freelance existence, but it is with ongoing contracts, and I think that is something other than if you do a big work and then depend on coming out and selling it. I think that's different. So it might be that we could really be more positive if the group were to be narrowed down a little bit more, because I like the idea that one supports through a deduction. I really think that the arguments that have been put forward from up here, from several of the bourgeois parties, are very conservative, but not very liberal, because this system is, of course, a more market-based system that depends on what the market really wants. At the same time, it is a recognition that the market is not a sufficient basis for financing artists, but the starting point is that the artists who benefit from this scheme are those who can actually sell their works, whereas the subsidies that have otherwise been mentioned up here are such aid schemes where there are wise people. I am also in favour of these schemes, but it is like another system where there are some wise professionals who give priority to who is going through the needle's eye. Perhaps you could call this a somewhat elitist, conservative approach, which I also support, but I also support the fact that we have a more market-based approach, where those who are rewarded are also those who can go out and sell their works themselves. I think that in some ways it would actually be more liberal cultural support policy to follow that logic. That is why I really like a system that has both elements, i.e. that you have the art support systems, where there are professionals and select the works you have artistic confidence in, but also a system that honours those who can actually sell their works. That balance is not there today, and I think we could do better, among other things. with such a proposal here. But, as I said, we are not right where we can allocate 100 million. kr. for that, but I like the logic, and in a slightly narrower version it might be that we could support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115114	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115118	Thank you. I think the Radical Left is still calling itself a liberal party, and now I just have to try to learn what Mrs Zenia Stampe is going through. So, from the Radical Left to a change in the art support we give in Denmark, from via the Statens Kunstfond etc., i.e. the curated, elitist and conservative way in which some go in and assess who should be supported and who should not be supported, to a more market-based, deduction-oriented etc. the kind of art support? Or is it just something like that on the one hand and on the other, and that you want to be friends with everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115201	I think I said this quite clearly in my speech. I said it is important to have a balance between the two forms of support. We support the Danish Arts Foundation, we support the system where things are curated on the basis of professional judgements, but we also support a system or a better balance in relation to schemes that are more demand-oriented. But it is not the case that we are willing to take money from the one system and give to it here, but we think that this type of scheme is something that we would like to give priority to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115235	So what one might well understand as a criticism of the elitist and so on. the way in which some were to sit and be taste judges was not a criticism, but just such talk or what? Because frankly, I didn't quite understand it. But I can see that the position of the Radical Left is that you think it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115259	It was not a criticism, because I said that we support it. I just said that these are two different support regimes, so to speak. I have no problem with supporting two different support regimes, because I am a social liberal, so I am already used to everything being about walking on two legs and so on. So I think the rapporteur is looking for controversy rather than a real doubt as to what I mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115329	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs wishing to speak. That is why we are giving the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr von der Vring. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115343	Thank you. I actually think I'm gonna try to go a little higher up here five minutes at lunch, you can't, but walk up the ladder a little bit. 'Cause we call this a freedom letter for creative artists. Why are we doing this? The starting point is that we mean " and I guess that's what many people think our society is in turn. Never in human history have we seen such rapid changes. We see it in technology, we see it in the economy, we see it in climate, politics, culture. These are violent tremors and changes. There's a new world en route. We don't know what that world's gonna look like. We don't know what it means to civilization, to us as individuals. We can just feel something happening. And exactly in this situation, we need inventors and explorers. For what are inventors and explorers? It is people who go forward, forward, to places where we have not been before; they go out into unknown land, investigate it, explore it, interpret it and return with a story of what is ahead. It can be done better or it can be done worse, but more than ever there is a need for us to have this type of explorer and inventor. That's what the creative art is. Well, if the creative art, unique art, wasn't unique, then it was just production. The unique thing is that it is an exploration of something unknown. Without the thought and new thinking and discussion that we, among others, have. In our view, it is more difficult to find solutions to the problems of the day and tomorrow, both as individuals and as citizens of the community. So this proposal is a cultural aid scheme. I can also call it a system of inventors or a system of discoveries, a proposal which is necessary in recognition of the fact that market forces cannot ensure an adequate supply of versatile and creative art. We have formulated this proposal as production aid because it is about ensuring that people who have sold their first works will have time to produce the hard two or the hard three or the hard four. This is not contrary to the fact that other people can get from the Danish Arts Foundation, but we have explicitly formulated it here in such a way that you cannot get from both places. If you look at the costs, you will see that we have set the costs high. We have not operated with dynamic effects or with what will go from other areas. It will probably be a lot lower because we are insisting precisely that people cannot get from both areas. The proposal is that for a period of up to 5 years, it has nothing to do with eternity artists, but it is a matter of up to 5 years, where you have something you can sell, can get a deduction of the first DKK 100,000 you have sold as creative art, namely your own unique works of art. So it is not a matter of someone getting something for something that cannot be used. Some people get something for something that can actually be sold. All we know is that the market price of art and culture, especially until people get through, is very low. We have created a target group, but clearly defined. We can easily discuss whether it should be narrower, but the target group is clearly defined and indeed includes a broad circle of creative artists from writers, sculptors, artists, dramatists, stage directors to composers and songwriters. What's the advantage of this from our point of view? That is that it is not a general subsidy, but a scheme that supports precisely those talents that have begun to earn their money from art, but not yet so much that they can finance the next works of art. Above all, it is a system that maintains the independence of artists, and it is not for others to assess whether what they are doing can be achieved. They're the ones who judge it, and if they get it sold, they get an opportunity to get this deduction. It is a hand-out to creative art, it is a letter of freedom for creative art, and we believe that, as I said at the outset, there is a good social meaning in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301115856	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard; none of the other rapporteurs were challenged. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Culture. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Then I can tell you that we're gonna take a break for dinner until 2:00 a.m. 13.00, where it is possible to meet the Minister and the rapporteurs again to item 11 on the agenda, which is also about culture and taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301130000	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301130030	Thank you. We have now reached the third stage and this is not the last of the Enhedslisten's four motion for a resolution on artist support through tax legislation. The list of members proposes that motions for resolutions be put to the vote at the end of the debate. B 7, that we introduce what Enhedslisten calls a cultural service allowance for private use of artists. The deduction shall apply for a trial period from 2019, i.e. next year, until 2021 • i.e. for a 3-year period and must include salary expenses for music, entertainment and other performances for private gatherings of up to DKK 6,000. annual per year; person over 18 years of age. In addition, it must be a condition for the application of the deduction that the artistic work carried out can be documented and that the payment is made electronically directly to the artist. A cultural service allowance such as that proposed by the Enhedslisten has certain similarities with the service and craftsman allowance we know for the housing job scheme, and it would also be most appropriate if the proposed proposal were to be included in this scheme. The government has just agreed on the content of a new permanent housing job scheme with Dansk Folkeparti as part of the 2018 Finance Act. The government wants to improve the deduction for services under the scheme as a starting point. The main policy priority will be to increase the amount of deduction or deduction of the services already covered by the scheme. The services can serve more than a deduction for cultural services to help families in their everyday lives. This, in conjunction with the way Enhedslisten points out to finance this cultural service allowance, namely by rolling back the relief on the housing and gift tax, makes the government unable to support the proposal. However, I would like to commend the proposal and say that one of the areas where I believe there can be a lot of undeclared work is when you have to have some out to play for a round birthday. There may not be everyone who gets an invoice, and there may also be some who forget to report VAT. It's hard to control. As a tax minister, I do not subscribe to the fact that west-dressed tax workers have to break into round birthdays to ensure that the black work is completely under control. Of course there must be, but it is difficult to exercise effective control, especially of the things that are going on at a party or within the four walls of the home. That is why it challenges us in terms of black work in and around private services and home control, and so there would be a good argument for making such a tax concession, provided that there is reporting and other. So I would like to pay tribute to that part of the proposal and I hope that Enhedslisten will consider voting for the total housing allowance agreed by the government with the Danish People's Party and, so far, the Danish People's Party is the only party, in addition to the government that supports around. But if we could persuade Enhedslisten to vote in favour of the government's housing allowance, then we will consider the proposal presented here by Enhedslisten. I think that there are good tactics in this regard in relation to the fact that there is a high level of undeclared work in this area. That is why I would also like to go constructively to it when we have, hopefully, adopted a housing job scheme and when, at a later stage, we can improve the housing job scheme, either by increasing the deduction value or by ensuring that there are several things that can be covered by the service part. Another point that has been suggested, which I also think is sympathetic, is for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. It may also be an area where there is relatively much undeclared work, i.e. when some pay for others to help your children with homework and home education. So if Enhedslisten wants to engage constructively in looking at the government's housing job scheme, I would also like to consider, as tax minister, a second time whether Enhedslisten's proposal can become part of the service part of the housing job scheme, but immediately we reject the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301130500	Thank you, Minister. I do not see any brief comments here, so we will continue with the actual rapporteur's speaking series. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301130521	Thank you. Yes, it will be somewhat the subject of variations that we are dealing with with these four proposals from the Enhedslisten. But again, I would like to pay tribute to Enhedslisten for taking the initiative to put this on the agenda, i.e. this with how we use culture in everyday life. These are excellent proposals, at least to highlight the fact that there are difficult conditions for art and culture in everyday life at the moment, as has been the case. I have to say that we are very much aware that artists in this field are having a very difficult time and that special working and employment conditions apply, so we also like the proposal in this way. However, as I had to say to the previous proposal, it is problematic to make special deductions for certain sectors, as is the case with this motion for a resolution. Then I will not be able to say what Enhedslisten says about the minister's fishing in relation to the housing job scheme. But there could be other professional groups who would also argue that it would be beneficial and beneficial for their employment to have such special arrangements. In addition, the motion for a resolution envisages spending 100 million. kr., as this is going to be. It is a great deal of money to spend on a special scheme which only benefits one group. We are prepared to do away with the funding that has been generated by introducing the housing and gift tax in the form that the government has done, but we would rather use it for what we have described in our 2025 plan, namely to create a better Denmark with an upgrading reform, with a fairer strengthening of welfare and strengthening of public sector efforts where there are gaps in our service and through richer growth reform. With these justifications, the special scheme, 100 million. We therefore refuse to support the motion for a resolution, but we would like to make the positive statement that it is a good thing that we are discussing it. It may well be that the discussion can go further when the Committee on Culture has to look at further initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301130837	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the series of speeches. The next speaker is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301130900	Thank you, President. This proposal deals with the introduction of a cultural service allowance for artists, but unlike the two previous proposals, there is a little more music in this. When I read it through, I remembered that one could imagine a party in a Jutland assembly house where an experimental performance artist from the capital was suddenly invited to perform. I got a whole lot of funny pictures on my retina. I'm not sure that's gonna happen. On the other hand, Enhedslisten has some good examples of what could be invited, namely an orchestra that plays up to dance or at a wedding. Like the Government and the Minister, I would like to say to the Enhedslisten that this presupposes that you become part of the housing job scheme and the contractual circle behind it. The Danish People's Party is part of that circle, so if we have to take a position on it at all, it must be part of the negotiations. Then Enhedslisten can consider whether they will back up the current housing job scheme and possibly play in with this as part of the housing job scheme. You can go home and think about that. The alternative has previously been part of the housing job scheme, and then Enhedslisten can also force himself to agree to a housing job scheme if, for example, you are forced to do so. could get this into the system. We do not accept the proposal. There are also problems with funding, as with the other proposals, where the reduction of the housing and gift tax for generational shifts in business enterprises is not the Danish People's Party's cup of coffee. We have an agreement with the government. However, as I said, this is not a completely uneffent proposal that I think Enhedslistens should take along when we talk about housing jobs. There, too, the Minister has proposed an invitation to the Enhedslisten. Then we have to see if Enhedslisten can also support the housing job scheme in general. When you can for artists and musicians and others, you should also be able to for craftsmen and ordinary hard-working Danish employees I assume.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131130	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So the next rapporteur is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131150	Thank you. But I was also so uplifted to learn that Enhedslisten can see the prospects of having initiatives like this in areas where very bad work is being used. This was one of the arguments for us to adopt what is called the 'handicraft allowance' in popular terms, but which also includes, for example, cleaning aid, which is also an area which is plagued by very bad work. And the question is how far the proposal here might in fact be more or less self-financing; it is something that one could go in and grow closer. However, as the country is now, we cannot support the resolution of the Enhedslisten, but we would like to improve the deduction for services under the housing job scheme, and we have, in the past, extended to other areas, precisely to restrict undeclared work and to get things done that might otherwise not be done. So if there could be funding and political support, we are looking at increasing the amount of deductions, but in the first place in the services already covered by the scheme. But let's see. And if the Enhedslisten wants to take part in discussions on the issue, this is one of the things that could be put on the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131328	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are still no brief comments, so we will continue with the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131346	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard has apparently been deep in the drawer and found all sorts of different, we should say, types of deduction options for our tax legislation. And that, of course, has one aim, and that is that the cultural area should be strengthened. Now other deductions have already been advertised. It's not really an advertisement I support. I would like to say that we are in government and that is why we have voted in favour of the housing job scheme. That is what pragmatism is called. Søren Søndergaard, you can be exposed to that. But this is not something we have come up with; it is not something that has grown in our garden, because it is a very expensive solution and a very expensive solution. So I think that the tax minister should be allowed to advertise it himself without having to be taken as an income for it. So I actually don't think it's a good idea that Mr. Søren Søndergaard is beginning to vote for such things. So it's just a regular friend's game. But that is why this is also a bad proposal, and it is not more of this that we should have. So I can just say very briefly that we cannot support the Enhedslisten in this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131453	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall continue to speak with the rapporteur for the alternative, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131509	Thank you. Again, I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for focusing on this area, which is precisely about how we create good conditions for professional artists' working lives, but it is also about how we actually create opportunities for a rich and vibrant art and cultural life throughout the country. So, how do artists get out and work all over the country? What I think is important in this proposal is that we look at how it is specifically targeted professional artists, and also on how to work with it in reading clubs, get writers out, etc., so it is supporting the professional artists' work in getting the professional art out throughout the country. And if that is what is in the proposal, then I think we should clarify it. We can support it from the point of view of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131609	Thank you to the rapporteur. You may be surprised at the short speeches. We shall then continue to speak, and the next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131621	Thank you. We also think that this is an exciting proposal with many perspectives. There are, for example: the tax perspective in relation to undeclared work, which does not really have so much to do with culture and art, but that is of course also an independent argument, because I have the impression that much of this is happening, but then outside the tax system. So, of course, it could be a way to get it into it anyway. But then there is the artistic perspective, and then there is the perspective for the people. Because I really believe that with this proposal, as it is described now, because it is so broad that it is not defined whether or not it is educated artists, perhaps I do not know, but it would be my assumption if it were implemented as widely as it has been described will go as much to people who have an entirely ordinary job, but who then think it is nice to go out every once in a weekend and play at a wedding or a confirmation, but not to performers and creative artists who have otherwise been at the centre of the four proposals put forward by the Enhedslisten. There can be good arguments for this, that is, for this broad scope, because it can be just a hand-out to the Danes and to the idea that you should invite the music and literature or art into your festive occasions, or whatever else it might be, but it has more to do with the idea that the Danes can get a grant for someone playing up to dance when there is confirmation than it really is that will make a decisive difference to the artists. I therefore believe that I have suffered the same reservations as I have with regard to some of the other proposals, namely whether we could make a distinction, in other words that what we support is not the one who has a full-time job and thinks it is nice to go out this weekend, but that it is the professional artists who have difficulty in creating a livelihood, but who can do this to get bread on the table. I think that might make sense, and then we will probably also land on a somewhat lower amount than the 100 million. kr., which is also what makes me a tiny bit reluctant to promise our support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131852	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber at the moment, so I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301131907	I had almost lost sight of the positive reception this proposal has received, but not quite yet. So I will, after all, just say a few words about the proposal here. But I'm glad there's so many people who can see the bars in it. Well, then I could stand by and say that's something I made up myself, but it's not. I read an article a few years ago, I think it was 3 years ago by a classical singer and a permanent soloist at the Royal Theatre, Peter Lodahl. He wrote an article in which he raised this question of the craftsman's allowance in relation to the art. Among other things, he wrote.: And why is art not as important as window cleaning and gardening? What did the argument have to be to be able to deduct cleaning of the house but not from the mind? Practically it comes out on one. Moreover, there is already a political precedent for a deduction model such as this. A deduction from the purchase of performing art would most importantly be a step towards a spiritual reinforcement of Denmark and a distance from the mental bankruptcy that we as a country are directing towards in many ways. We have never spent more time than we are doing now discussing physical health, paleo diets, counting calories and going to the gym. Isn't it time for us to do something about all the spiritual junk food we consume? I think that was a very inspiring speech, because it hits the nail. And perhaps there are already some who have begun to see through what has been our idea of putting forward these four proposals, namely to highlight the importance of giving priority to art and culture for many reasons, for employment reasons, for export reasons, but also for the sake of developing our society for greater well-being and health. And, of course, it's also in this context that this proposal has to be seen. Mrs Zenia Stampe raised the question of demarcation and so on. We are, of course, very positive about this. I have noted that in their description of the proposal in their member magazine, the Danish Musician Federation writes: "It will make it more attractive for private people to hire live music for family parties, and therefore it is likely to have a positive effect for members in the form of more gaming jobs. I think so too, but it is a bit of a matter of faith, and that is why we have also carefully launched it here as an experimental system, where you have to test it and see how it goes, whether it is possible, and then develop it from there. We believe that with this proposal we will not only get more employment, but we will also get more culture into the country. In relation to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's photos on the retina I shall not develop them in detail, but just say that it could be exciting if somebody tried something they hadn't tried before. Isn't it a bit what art can do, namely create some challenges, do some hoof, what happened there? It's probably the essence of art, and if it can happen in the form of having a reading club where you ask a writer out, then I think it's a really good idea. Then it is, above all, a tool against undeclared work that everyone will recognize. We haven't included that in the cost because we haven't put any emphasis on all those dynamic effects, but we think that the total amount will be significantly smaller. In relation to the offer of the housing job scheme, I would say that we are always ready to discuss everything, and if we are going to discuss it all now, we think that we should at all discuss how to get rid of a number of those tax credits. Did I say that? Yeah, I actually think so. Because I'm actually in favour of getting rid of some of those deductions. I think we should find another way to finance it. I know that in Sweden it is financed by direct grants, because in Sweden there is such a government that it is not only the current government but also previous governments that say that there is really nothing wrong with making political decisions about what you want to support. Then people can choose someone else if they don't think so. And if there is some area that you say deserves some support... it can be sport, or it can be art, or it can be socially vulnerable residential areas, or what do I know, then you make some political decisions, and then you support it. We are actually in favour of such a system instead of deduction. When we have chosen the way of deduction here, it is just because, unfortunately, this is the way the Danish tax system has been set up far along the way. We would very much like to see it, especially from the broad support we have sensed to the point of view here today that we are having a discussion about it so that we can get rid of all those deductions. And I will perhaps address some of them in my final speech on the next item. So I just want to say thank you for what to say, the goodwill in relation to the idea. It is clear that it is not something that is being implemented here and now, but we hope that with this we have helped to highlight that mental health and mental well-being are actually as important as whether the lawn is beaten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301132509	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301132526	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Taxation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301132545	Thank you. Yes, then we have come to the final act of this artistic performance or the examination of four motions for resolutions from the Enhedslisten on art support via tax legislation. It's kind of like movies, it's rare that the four is better than the one. I personally believe that the resolution we have just discussed is what comes closest to having the support of the government. We cannot support the three motions for resolutions, nor the last one. However, I would also like to say a few words about the proposal from the Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten proposes in the motion for a resolution that performers should receive a tax deduction for further training in the field of diploma and master training of up to DKK 55,000. annual, however, so that an artist max. can take the equivalent of two of the courses in question. The very clear starting point is that a person does not deduct the cost of continuing training. This applies, whether you are an performer or not, it is general rules, and I find it rather difficult to see that, through the tax system, we have to provide support for further training for certain groups of people. It is fair to discuss whether there should be a special right of deduction for further training in our tax system, in addition to what applies today with the employer-paid, but something targeted and specific for artists, I do not think there is any professional basis for thinking. There's a disagreement with the Enhedslisten. Nor is it quite clear to me how the Enhedslisten will finance the new deductions contained in this resolution, but in any case it is not the government's policy to provide funding through tax restrictions in other areas. Denmark has an excellent education system which offers good opportunities to train, and if you want to continue training by taking a master or diploma course, the same admission requirements and the same user fee apply to everyone. Similarly, special deductions should not be introduced for particular groups of persons other than those which we have in our tax legislation for historical reasons. And that's where I'm gonna have to give Mr. Kevin. Søren Søndergaard is right in saying that there are areas in our tax legislation where there are very special deductions, but we are actually trying to minimise them and generally to lower the tax burden. So let me make it clear that the government cannot support this proposal or the other motions for resolutions which will introduce special tax credits for artists, but, as the government's basis shows, we are working for more general tax cuts and they will all benefit, including performers. This is not an expression of the fact that the government does not regard art or culture as an important part of our society, as I have also said repeatedly during the previous discussion, and therefore funds are also being allocated on an ongoing basis on the Government's 2018 Finance Act for new cultural initiatives to help create a good and free framework for Danish cultural life, and this is, in the view of the government, the right way to support culture. Then a question was asked by Mr. Søren Søndergaard and others about what it is like, the connection is with the re-priority contribution and new initiatives when making the total calculation. I have tried to give an answer to it under ministerial responsibility, that is to say a correct answer, and I think we have had skilled officials in both the Treasury, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance to see if you could find a quick answer and a correct answer, but that has not been possible, and I would therefore very much like to reply to it in writing. It has not been possible in the last few hours at least, but I am sure that it is possible to respond. What I can contribute, I have that opportunity, that is what the Finance Act says, and that gives us a little insight into what the government has proposed in the draft budget for culture. All ministries have a paragraph, some have several, the Treasury, among other things, because we have an expenditure paragraph and a revenue paragraph. The Ministry of Culture has only one section of expenditure, and that is Section 21 of the Finance Act, and on page 13 of section 21 you can see the multiannual budget, and I would like to read that out, because it says a little about whether you give priority to culture or whether you do not give priority to culture. The budget can cover many things, buildings and everything else, but these are the main figures. If you look at what the net number is, you can see under § 21, page 13 that the net number in 2015 is 6.894.000.000 DKK. The net figure in 2016, where there is a small decrease, is DKK 6,781,000,000. On the other hand, there is an increase in 2017, where the figure is 6,905,000,000 DKK. It is therefore an amount in 2017, which is higher than the amount in 2015. Then there is the draft budget for 2018, and this is actually an even higher figure than the figure for 2017 and also a higher figure than for 2015. That is 6,945 billion. kr. And on top of this figure, which is the government's draft Finance Act, you have to put what is on the final Finance Act, so that amount will be increased. How much bigger, I have not been able to find out since the question was asked, but I will be pleased to reply in writing to it. However, it seems to me that the government is giving priority to culture, perhaps not to the extent that the Enhedslisten might wish, but it is not an expression of a downgrade in the 600-million-dollar class that was expressed. But we will send the precise answer over in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133139	There is one question for the tax minister, and it is asked by Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133146	I would just like to say that I really love the Minister, who takes pride in complying with the law of ministerial responsibility. So I look forward to the written answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133157	We disagree on the motions for resolutions, but we fully agree on the latter, as Mr von der Vring has said. Søren Søndergaard said.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133204	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Søren Søndergaard further? No. Then we thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133220	Thank you. The fourth of the rocket is then Enhedslisten's proposal for a deduction for further training for performers. I repeat, and I can be very brief, our fundamental view that we do not think that a special arrangement is appropriate in this area. Of course, we are aware that the price of this is calculated for only 11 million. kr. This, of course, makes it a little more edible, but we still think it should be included in the general priorities, in which we refer to the financing of our 2025 plan, which, of course, we would like to discuss with the parties that will be involved when it becomes possible to implement it. However, when it makes sense to discuss the educational conditions of artistic practitioners or artistic training, it is a little linked to the fact that, regardless of the figures to which the Minister will now give a written answer, it is indeed the case that the educational institutions for artistic education and also the other courses have been spared, and one might ask oneself whether this is wise. Is it wise in a world where what we have to live on is to sell something with added value, something that can refer to a story, can refer to • we should say "new thinking," etc.? There we have to lean a little on the fact that we have some people who master it, from art and the world of culture, and therefore we are glad that we are aware that some work has been started to look at artistic education and how they can be linked in a different way and how we weigh them in a different way. We would very much like to be involved in discussing this in the future, because we believe that it is absolutely essential that the training task is also raised for artistic education. All I have to do is refer to what Denmark has had of good victories in the design, architecture, film and photo area. It hasn't been small things. In fact, it has been able to be read both in employment and in earnings. So this is an important area, but we cannot support the specific resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133455	There is no desire for short remarks. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133502	Thank you for that, President. The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution is about making a further training allowance for performers, and I can say quite clearly that the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal for two reasons. One is the funding. Once again, it is the housing and gift tax that must be maintained. We do not think it is a very good idea to change the agreement that the Danish People's Party has entered into with the government. And then we also think it is not very clever that some specially selected groups should be allowed to benefit from a further training allowance. Allow me to say a few general things. For the Enhedslisten has tabled these four motions for resolutions because they believe that culture in Denmark is rather bad and that little money is being spent on art. After all, I have received an answer in the past as to what it really looks like. Now you get some figures that might surprise you. It actually looks pretty good in Denmark. If we take the total public spending on leisure, sports and cultural services as a percentage of gross domestic product in 2015, Denmark spent 1.1 per cent. of its GDP. Only one country spent more than us, namely France, which spent 1.3 per cent. If we take it as a percentage of public spending, we spent 2% in Denmark, and then two countries were above us. One was France with 2.3 per cent. and Sweden by 2.1 per cent. And Norway, oily Norway, also used 2%. as Denmark. In other words, Denmark spends as much on cultural defence as we spend on gunpowder and bullets, namely 1.3 per cent. If we just look at the total public expenditure on cultural services as a percentage of gross domestic product, then Denmark spent 0.7 per cent, and only one country spent a corresponding amount, and that was France with 0.7 per cent as well. If we take it as a percentage of total public expenditure, Denmark is 1.2 per cent, while France and Norway are a mule hair in front of us at 1.3 per cent. So Denmark is a country that spends a lot of money on art and culture. Sometimes in the debate on art and culture not only here in the Parliament hall, not only when the left takes it up, but also in the media, on the air, among cultural people, it sounds like we in Denmark are a developing country, that we do not focus at all, that we do not prioritise art. And that is simply not true. That may then be the third argument for voting against this proposal. It is not really necessary, as we see it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133839	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Ahrendtsen. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301133858	Thank you for the floor. I have simply sat and wrung my brain with whether or not there should be a single film series where the 4 is actually better than the 1. I'm thinking that the Olsen gang, which I know the tax minister has an in-depth knowledge of, is in fact an example because the first Olsen gang film was actually pretty bad if we're gonna be honest. So there was an example. But otherwise, I can follow the tax minister on this point too. On the other hand, I cannot follow the Enhedslisten, which has proposed a further training allowance for performers. This is going to be a bit of a repetition of the previous speeches, but at least as a major starting point we think that it is fundamentally wrong when we give special advantages to particular groups if there is no particular justification for doing so. Therefore, we cannot support the introduction of special deductions for artists in relation to training. I should also like to point out that performers have the opportunity to take advantage of the education system as such, including the wide range of evening schools and other things we have. Against this background, I must say that the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134023	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen... Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134035	Thank you. If we now want to make tax legislation as complicated as possible and put layers and deductions on deductions, so that it only requires more and more control, then we now have a series of proposals that involve it. This is a further training allowance, which sounds like a sympathetic one. But if you aim to simplify a tax system so that you can actually see it through, then all four of these proposals are a big mistake, no matter how sympathetic the content may be. And that is why, in my opinion, it does not even have land. Well, if sir... Søren Søndergaard one day comes up with a number of proposals where we remove a number of deductions, then I really think we could put perspective on it and then spend the money to lower the tax for ordinary people • also artists • instead of this circus with control as it will become. One can imagine that the tax minister must have employees to make sure to sign up for all receptions at 50th birthdays at home in the garden, because they must ensure that you can check people just to take the previous proposal. So one big misdirect that we cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134144	No one has asked for brief comments on that, so we thank Mr. Leif Mikkelsen and move on to Mr Leif Mikkelsen. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134154	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we think this proposal is very sensible, but we also believe that it should be about creative artists and not just performers. A number of things have been said, and I just have to go to the other side and say: what kind of work are we really offering our professional artists? It is very, very few artists who have a permanent job, a permanent employer and can thus make use of the opportunities for continuing training in this way. In this way, it can be said that artists are a bit a prototype in new ways of working, which is actually growing at the moment. In fact, we are seeing more and more people who do not necessarily have a permanent employer, fixed working hours, and we must manage that, even when it comes to continuing training. In fact, I think that this proposal puts the finger on something where we can try it out to see if this actually works so that we can offer it to more people who do not necessarily get fixed jobs, permanent employers and fixed working hours, because it is just the reality today that that change is happening. So let us look at finding good solutions for those people, and let us use the artists who already live that life to see what works. This is also about working conditions for many artists being under pressure. We bind more and more of our cultural crowns onto bricks, and thus there is less for production. And how do we want artists to have a working life? Well, there is sometimes a need for further and further training, and there are some good examples in Enhedslisten's proposals on how to put your knowledge and methods at risk in other ways, but it requires further and further training, and no, artists usually do not have the same opportunities as people with a permanent job, and that is exactly why I think this proposal is one of the most necessary proposals in this package put forward by Enhedslisten, because it is also something that we can spread out and use much wider in relation to the changing labour market that we see at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134416	No one has asked for brief comments on this. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist and move on to the radical rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134424	On the other hand, I believe that unlike Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that this is the proposal we are least enthusiastic about, even though it is the cheapest. I can see the logic of what is being said, but I think it is a little harder to justify why artists should be given special treatment in this area. There are also other groups that need further training and at least as much as artists, and it should not be forgotten that some of the most expensive courses in our country are some of the artistic courses. Therefore, I think there is something strange about having to provide such special conditions for training in a different direction when you have received an education as an actor, instructor, musician, which is elite education. These are training courses where very, very few are admitted each year. That, and then because I have a little difficulty in seeing why this particular group should have more need and more demand for state aid for further training, makes it impossible for us to support the proposal, even though it is relatively cheap compared to some of the other proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134546	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134550	First of all, I would like to hear from the rapporteur about these precarious recruitments that more and more people have, i.e. where you do not have a permanent employer and therefore do not have the arrangements you normally have. That is what applies to a great many artists, and that is why this proposal actually makes sense, because it is impossible to make use of the fixed models which otherwise exist for continuing training. I would also like to ask something about training in a different direction: does the rapporteur not agree that one can stand at a time when one cannot make a working life stick together as an executive or creative artist, and therefore have to get some other tools in order to put one's artistic methods at risk in other ways for the benefit of society, so that one uses one's education, which is expensive, as the rapporteur said, so that one does not throw it completely away and take a completely new education instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134636	Yes, but the whole discussion about the precariat does not just delineate itself to artists. It is also a discussion we have in relation to a lot of other professions. Another discussion which the rapporteur raises, namely the discussion about changing to other sectors, is not only relevant to artists, because there may also be sectors where one simply is not physically able to continue. They may be craftsmen who will then use some of their practical skills to become a teacher in some of the areas. So exactly in this area I mean, although there are special conditions for artists, that this could be really good for them, that there are just also special conditions for a lot of other groups that make it just as much good and reasonable for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134720	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134722	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it is also a question of finding the right tools for a challenge that is growing. I also mentioned that this is something that is growing, and that is also what Mrs Zenia Stampe says here. But isn't it a good idea to try and make a scheme that applies to everyone, so say: let's try it out here to see if it works, and then we can just roll it out to all the other professionals and people who are in these situations and who are growing as a group?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134752	This is undoubtedly an area of great concern to us. After all, we ourselves have put forward a proposal to ensure that everyone has a personal education account, which would, in fact, take account of this problem and benefit not only the artists, but, in other words, everyone who wants not only to further qualify in an area but also to change the field. There may be various reasons for this, as I mentioned before, and there may also be the risk of wear and tear. So that is certainly something we are concerned with, but we think in other ways and then recognise that this is such a big problem that it is also relevant to many other groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134824	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134826	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and reply. Now I myself am trained on one of these very elitist courses in the artistic professions, but unfortunately I am also very familiar with what wages and the labour market look like after training, and that is not just for all artists. I am so twice hit because then I also have a minority background in that we may have some reactionary patterns of development in the industry. However, the rapporteur says that there are many other sectors which are also under pressure. Which industries have such fleeting jobs, you will also focus on in relation to the artistic industry, the prequities, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301134914	There are a lot of subjects that are mentioned. I understand that there are a lot of creative subjects, which are not artistic, but creative, i.e. communication, etc., where more and more people are becoming freelancers and going from one contract to the other contract, and vice versa, there are more and more companies who choose to outsource a number of tasks instead of setting people up. So this is a very broad issue. It may well be that wages are particularly low in the artistic field. I must admit that I do not quite have an overview of this in relation to all sorts of other sectors. But I do not think that is too much said and it was also confirmed by the Alternative's rapporteur that this is a much broader issue which, in fact, also deserves a much broader answer than we start to go in and make special rules for individual groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301135004	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301135005	Thank you for your clarification. I totally agree. It was in fact just to hear the rapporteur's own views on which areas have been affected. We know that 30-45 per cent. of the U.S. labour market goes into this kind of precarious structure where they are project workers and are uncertain for the future. However, in relation to this area, our rapporteur also mentions that it should be about creative as well as performing artists, which will certainly extend the group, as the rapporteur also talks about, with craftsmanship and so on. Couldn't it be an idea to try this out and find something as a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301135044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301135045	After all, we ourselves have spent a very long time developing a model that we would rather pursue, giving everyone a right and opportunity to further train through life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301135057	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are apparently no other rapporteurs who would like to speak, so we shall turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301135113	Politiken had an article under the heading on 18 September 2017: • Art academies train for high unemployment and low pay, and this was then documented in the article. It is a real problem that, after very long artistic training, there are a lot of people who suffer from unemployment for shorter or longer periods of time and, therefore, for some for longer periods and the big question is: what are we doing about it? There are different tools, that is clear. There is something about the dimension of training, something about creating more employment, and that is what we have proposed with the four proposals we have put forward here. These have basically been employment proposals, that is, proposals that would create more employment and, above all, would create more employment, which would come out with cultural and artistic offers throughout the country. That has been the purpose of the proposals. But there will probably still be a problem, that is, that there are people who get an artistic education and, for one reason or another, do not get through and cannot get work in that area, and what do we do? This is where this proposal comes in. Of course, we can tell people: Take a new education, start over, and become an engineer, or become a cand. mag. or something. We can do that. But we could also do something else and say: Bring the professionalism which you have received qua a long training, into play with an additional training in another area. This is, of course, what this proposal is about, i.e. as an example: a musician who has been through the Academy and spent a lot of time on it with crosses and ties and stars, and it has cost a lot of money, and who cannot get a job, can receive a shorter supplementary education which will enable him to use his professional skills and the shorter supplementary education for example. to be head of a music school. It is a question of making rational use of society's resources, and one way of doing so is to allow for supplementary education. If you are employed somewhere, you can usually get training, and if you are self-employed, you also have the opportunity to get training. The problem is those who do not have the opportunity to do so within this framework, and that is where we propose that we should be able to get training up to 120 points, i.e. what is called ECTS points, which will either be a master's degree or a master's degree, which can be divided into four semesters, or which can be a diploma or two diploma courses. It is therefore a way of using resources, it is not really a way of using resources. For the education we use is an education that has already been given to people. That is why this proposal is welcomed by some of them. For example: You can read about this proposal in the magazine of the Danish Artists: Continuing training allowance for artists is a very good idea. With uncertain and fluctuating incomes, many artists find it difficult to finance education. The proposal is a step on the way to giving us the opportunity to come into line with the rest of the labour market in terms of continuing training. So it's not a special rule. It is therefore not something special for a small group of people, but it is a question of bringing it to a level with something that very many others in the labour market already have the right to do. In relation to the debate we have had more generally, as this is the last of our proposals, the idea has been to focus not only on the conditions of artists but also on the employment of artists and how we get the art out into the country, and I think this debate has contributed to that, and we are glad to do so, even if we can count on the proposals not being adopted immediately. But I would like to dwell for a moment on some of the objections that have been raised. For example: The Socialist rapporteur has used this objection on several occasions: we in the Social Democrat Party are fighting for welfare and then we cannot give priority to these areas. That sounds good, but can we not hold on to the fact that the personal income of an artist at national level is on average DKK 180,000.? It is far, far below what the average income of the rest of the population is. And can we not just hold on to the fact that the average income of a fictional author is less than DKK 100,000. A year? Can we not just hold on to the fact that it is far below the average population? Therefore, when we make these proposals, it has not been anything to give them with a gold spoon in their mouths more gold spoons. It has been a matter of supporting a growth layer for a period of time in order to give people an opportunity to examine whether they could survive and live on their art or to find something else. There has also been this whole discussion about deductions, and it has already started from the first speech. There were parties that went on the platform and insisted on how much they were against deduction, except when it was just for Olympics who lived in tax havens and who had received a medal. Then it was all right that there was a deduction. But the Danish tax system is full of deductions to special groups: there is the research scheme that has been mentioned, and there are professional footballers etc. who benefit from it. There is the DIS scheme, which means that seafarers do not have to pay taxes, not for the benefit of seafarers, no, no, that is not why tax exemptions have been granted, but for the benefit of shipowners. For the benefit of shipowners, seafarers have been exempt from tax so that seafarers can receive lower wages. There is a savings scheme for professional athletes, or what about the house rule? There is the very well-known house rule, which means that residential buildings at farmhouses are valued or taxed according to special rules, or not to mention the mentioned sea allowance for fishermen. As stated on the SKAT website, it is for employees or self-employed fishermen who have been registered as professional fishermen during the income year. You may receive a deduction per year. the beginning of the day of the sea. It says: "Each fishing trip must have a minimum duration of 12 hours. A day at sea means 24 hours. For longer fishing trips, you can be deducted from two days at sea when the trip lasts over 24 hours. For the trip over 48 hours, you can be deducted from three days at sea and so on. The sea allowance is selected for the entire income year and amounts to a maximum of DKK 41 800 per year. Yes, there is a lot of deduction in Danish tax legislation that you can start with if you like, and that is why, frankly, I do not think it is a particular argument when we come with people who earn 180,000 kroner. or less than DKK 100,000. And say, "Wasn't it an idea that we could make a scheme here?" And you say, "Oh, we're basically against deduction." Frankly, that sounds a little hollow to my ears. But I look forward to seeing that when we put forward these proposals for abolishing these deductions, there is broad support. I recognise that the Liberal Alliance has been clear in its spit against it and will, of course, vote in favour. It's gonna be exciting what the rest of the parties are gonna do. In conclusion, I would just like to thank you for the debate. We hope, of course, that these proposals will help to promote the debate which will ensure better employment, fewer unemployed people and more rational use of society's resources and, above all, that art and culture will come out throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140009	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140013	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. I really just want to thank you for focusing on this problem, and actually also for having the courage to say that art needs to fill up more. It is also the one that characterizes us as a society; it is the one that develops us as citizens of this society. It is clear that if the conditions which then exist for creative and performers are not sufficient for art to be given the position it should have, then we must do something. So I hope we can continue to focus on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140053	I'll thank you for the rose. This isn't something we've done as a winning case. I can also read what is happening on Facebook, for example. I don't think this is a win for us. But sometimes you have to tell people the truth. And what has created Danish society, and what has created the momentum in Danish society, has been that we have been open to art and culture. One of the worst things that can happen is that we shut it off. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we constantly conduct the discussion on how to best support those I called explorers, inventors, people who go out into the future and look at the future, feel at it, try to interpret it and come back and give us an idea of what lies out there. That is what creative art can do, and it is absolutely crucial for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140149	There does not seem to be any more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Søren Søndergaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140204	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140217	Denmark is a proud fishing nation. We have a long and great history in the fisheries sector, and especially inshore fishing, as it is called today, has been an important part of the backbone of Danish fishing historically. Today it is gradually becoming different. Inshore fishing is under pressure, but there is still something fascinating, something inspiring and, I think, for many young people too, perhaps even motivating about the history of Danish fishing, including inshore fishing. Coastal fishing is under pressure today. For this reason, a majority in the Folketing has also made a fisheries package, whereby special fisheries resources will be allocated to a new and protected coastal fishing system with the clear aim of protecting coastal fishing, protecting the quotas relating to inshore fishing. In addition to the political initiatives, there are associations around Denmark that spend time and energy telling the story of Danish coastal fishing. They make it alive, hands on, from vessels where they communicate knowledge about life in the small landing sites and in the ports and about what inshore fishing has meant for Denmark and Danish fishing. With the bill we are discussing today, these associations now have new opportunities to land and sell fish, although to a limited extent, but in a way that allows them to operate their association, to promote the dissemination of the Danish cultural heritage around coastal fishing. It is a fine bill that has been made and we can also support the bill, but we have a concern that the association vessels will not be able to get started until next year. It is our wish in the Social Democratic Party that the association vessels can get started fishing and marketing fish from this summer onwards. That is why we have a concern about the rules that apply to the maritime safety certificates referred to in the draft law. It is the case today that if you are carrying an association vessel and have guests on board, you do so with a standard certificate of proficiency that you are able to drive a vessel. However, with the new rules, which allow people to sell fish, to sell them, there is suddenly an equality between union fishermen and commercial fishermen. We believe that this is a dramatic tightening which we hope can be softened up, recognising that association vessels are precisely a hybrid model that lies somewhere between recreational and commercial fishing. In addition, the draft law tightens the requirements for re-registration of A-fishermen's status in our optics an attempt to close a gap in fisheries legislation. We can support that too. There is also a narrowing of the circle when it concerns the inheritance of an "A' status in the context of fishing. We believe that inheritance is inheritance, and that is why we are in favour of the narrowing of the circle. Last but not least, of course, there is also the composition of the Biprofessional Fishermen's Board, where I have to say that I think it is wise not to explicitly mention individual associations in general legislation and move on to a good or at least better practice with a general approach of representation, where it is mentioned that it should be for representatives of the profession more than for specific associations. With those comments, I should just like to say that the Social Democratic Party can support the bill. I have been asked also to welcome from the SF and the Radical Left and to say that, with the same concerns about association vessels, they can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140641	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Ib Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140653	Thank you. In December 2016, a broad majority in the Folketing adopted a package of 26 items in relation to fisheries. Fishing was under pressure in many areas, and we have done so through the agreement we made at the time. Now you have to be careful with irony here as a parliamentary politician. But now, 14 months later, we are so ready to take up one of the points that is called ending quota concentration, i.e. these so-called quota kings. And so we do the tightening in relation to having A status, the re-registration of it so that if you lose it, you can't just get it back by automatic means. You have to go fishing again and do the things that make it possible to regain it. One of the things that lies in the agreement is that we narrow the circle of those who can inherit a fishing farm. We think it is reasonable to narrow that circle. Social democracy then has a concern about these associations vessels, and we share this in the Danish People's Party. We believe that the agreement that has been made means that we must get out and fish in these fishing boats this summer, and then there is the concern about who can sail with the ships. And we must also look at it so that it is not too tight and too rigid. One thing that also lies in this law is that the second-hand fishing committee needs to be adapted and made up in line with developments in the fisheries sector. This has been a bit tricky, but now we have it adjusted, and we have already done so in the Committee on Fisheries, where we have also adapted so that everyone can speak. In the past it was the case that the Danish Fisheries Association was over-represented in the Trade Fishing Committee, and now they are equally represented with FSK and DFPO, i.e. the pelagic organisation. So, with these comments, I agree with the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140933	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301140940	Thank you. It is absolutely true that Denmark is a historic and proud fishing nation. We'll protect that. After all, we all know the situation when we get around both in some of the small ports and some of the large ports, and also when, for example, we get there. Sometimes drives out on the highway and sees some of the big trucks that are heading south with some of the nice, big freighters. This contributes precisely to the overall picture that Danish fishing is an essential part of Danish exports and that it is an essential part of our gross domestic product. There are a lot of jobs at stake. Outside this agenda, we have the whole Brexit agenda, where we know that fishing means a lot to it. So there is a great deal of attention to the fishing industry at this time. I think it is good to hear several rapporteurs who, like others, take on board, what can be said, the whole fishing industry. And when you so dive further and further into it, it also becomes more and more obvious to me at least; I think it does for most people that it is incredibly important that we still have a very varied fishing industry in the future. Former rapporteurs have pointed out that coastal fishing is extremely important. You can almost translate it into Danish and say that when you go to the small ports, it is important that there is still a smell of fish, you can say. It also means something touristic, it means something to local jobs, but it is equally important that there is still a commodity base for our many other fish processing plants where the large quantities of tonnes are collected. You also know, when you look into the future, that exactly fish are still expected to be a very important component of the development of the whole food market, even when you look at trends etc. So this is something we must pay the greatest attention to. Then I would just like to add my voice to what has already been said about what the draft law contains on voluntary coastal fishing associations. They constitute an important tradition in the profession. I am not going to unfold that further; it has been done in an excellent way already. And then the draft law also deals with a number of other changes following on from some of the many discussions that we have between us in the parties and in the fisheries group. Against this background, of course, on behalf of the Left, I can endorse this bill and we fully support it and, of course, vote in favour of what we have agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141229	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks so we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141242	Enhedslisten supports the bill. We are part of this growth and development package, which was created back in December 2016, and which, overall, was intended to end these quota kings who have too many quotas. At the same time, there was a clear sign that we should promote the development of more gentle and coastal fishing. This bill does not fully secure the two intentions of the fish package, but they bring small parts of it. I think it is important, in this development and profiling of coastal fishing, that we can now, with the adoption of the bill, decide to grant fishing rights to some association vessels. In this context, I think that what the Social Democrats have brought forward is that it would be very good to find a solution so that those association vessels could go fishing in 2018, and that this is, in fact, an important parameter. Whether it is the Minister who has to grant some sort of derogation or similar, we must be able to find out, and I think it would be a good thing, through a committee procedure, for us to sort out what the possibilities are, if we are to ensure that the association vessels can catch some fish this year, while at the same time ensuring that safety is in order. Then there are some measures in the draft law that can make it possible to tighten up the A-fishermen's opportunities, so I think we are actually closing a gap with what is proposed here. We also think it is right that a tightening-up of who can inherit a fisherman should be made, and we also support the amendments to the second-hand fishing committee that have been included in the proposal. So an excellent bill. So we have that thing about securing that the association vessels can get some fish this year and get out to work at sea. We look forward to finding a solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141447	Thanks to Søren Egge Rasmussen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141454	I do not want to take much of the time of my fellow Members, but I would just like to point out, as has also been said several times in the Chair, that the draft law here contains a number of minor changes under the agreement on the fisheries package, where, among other things, there are. initiatives are also being taken to promote the proud and traditional Danish local coastal fishing, and some adjustments are then made to the requirements made to be reregistered as an A-status professional fisherman. In addition to this, it is also some technical adjustments and adjustments and all that are on the line and level with the Liberal Alliance's wishes for the development of Denmark's fisheries policy, which is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141601	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141608	Thank you for that, President. L 151 is a proposal to amend the Fisheries Act, and it is, after all, a consequence of the fisheries package of December 2016 that has been mentioned earlier and that the alternative has agreed to. Like the other rapporteurs, we agree with the proposal. We can also agree with the objections that have been raised on behalf of several of the other parties, in relation to the fishing rights of voluntary associations, when they get started, and whether they should, as it were, be treated in the same way as professional fishermen. We also think it is a bit intense about the extent of fishing that they have. Then we would just like to talk about a point which deals with the narrowing of the circle of heirs, on which we naturally support. But we also need to talk about the property tax and inheritance tax that we have in Denmark and which we want to regulate. And it is because of the UN's global goal of creating more equality in our world. The alternative suggests that we get a progressive inheritance tax, so inheritance over 1 million. kr. an additional 15 per cent tax is imposed. We are proposing a property tax and we can also relate that to the mention that has been made of quotas in Danish fishing, where we would like to tax net worth of more than 3 million. kr. with 1%. a year. Finally, we would like to abolish the tax benefits of the generational shifts in Denmark, which were introduced in 2015 for family-owned companies. That alone would generate a revenue of 3.7 billion. kr., which we might use to strengthen coastal fishing in Denmark as well. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141813	Those were the words, but there is just a brief comment from Mr. Ib Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141819	Thank you. Now I have some doubts and a little concern, because we have made an agreement, and I will see if the alternative supports this agreement. Now you start talking about imposing taxes on heirs in this context. Does this mean that the alternative does not support the proposal? Or how am I supposed to understand that, since you're starting to want to have new demands in here, where we're starting to have to legislate about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141845	Thank you for the question. I am sorry if I give cause for concern to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in relation to our agreement with the agreement. It can be said that the tax policy that I am presenting here is, of course, part of the general taxation in Denmark and not under the agreement. So, of course, we stand by what we have agreed to. The property tax, inheritance tax and the generational change tax are something we want for the whole of Denmark and not just for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141917	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Ib Poulsen word? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141921	Well, then, I understand that we are in agreement with this and that we do not want inheritance tax in relation to the fishing industry, but that we want it for the rest of the industry. So we are releasing the fishing industry, and I am glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141936	Absolutely not. I think it is all professions that should contribute to more equality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141943	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. So we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301141950	Thank you for that, President. L 151, which includes some adjustments and has been made as part of the fisheries package and the political agreements of 2016 and 2017, contains, on the one hand, an initiative on information on local coastal fisheries in Denmark, and, on the other hand, it narrows the circle of persons who can inherit an existing fisheries holding. And then it contains strict requirements for re-registration as an A-status professional fisherman and modernisation of the legislation on the composition of the Biprofessional Fishermen's Board. That is, in short, what we have on the agenda here. In the big picture, these are some of the smaller things that we have here today. Not that it is not important for the people involved, but overall, we must say that we have had a rather strong fisheries debate among politicians, but also in the media, and what may be my hope and the hope of the Conservatives is that with the legislation we are now in the process of starting with this, but in the autumn we will come up with additional legislation in other areas, which are in a slightly larger scale, in terms of capital terms, and that we will have a political decision to legislate on what we have now agreed on. I think it is important from this point of view to say that this is what I hear the fisheries want and ask us to do, and I believe that will happen this year. We must remember that for many communities, fishing is also important for the local area. I come from the area near Thyborøn Harbour myself. The port of Thyborøn is growing enormously. Fishing is growing enormously, the trades around it are growing rapidly, and therefore it is an industry that gives value to local communities and to the areas. And we, as politicians, must remember, when we discuss it, that we must have respect for the daily work of the professions. I believe we are showing that, too, only by deciding this today. And that's why the Conservative People's Party says yes to Bill No. 151.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142228	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142237	Normally, at first reading, thanks may be due for the good and comprehensive debate on the draft law. That may not be what we have had right now and here, but we do have that regularly and thank you for always good debates about this important profession. However, I would like to start by thanking you for the good reception of this draft law, which, as I said, is also part of the fisheries package, that is to say part of the agreement on the fisheries package, and indeed part of the political agreement we reached back in November, concerning action against quota concentration. And this proposal is part of the initiatives designed to ensure that Danish fishing can also contribute in the future to ensuring a diverse industry in Denmark and also contribute to the development of local areas. In the light of the criticisms made in the area of quota concentration, following the political agreement of 16 November last year, the rules for professional fishermen with "A' status will be tightened up so that in future they will have to actively renounce their status as professional fishermen if, for a period of time, they will no longer be able to fulfil the conditions laid down in the Fisheries Act. And this waiver will then in turn ensure that they have the opportunity to re-register within five years. The proposal's provision that only children, spouses or cohabitants may temporarily take over an existing fishing holding in the event of death is also to implement the political agreement of 16 November last year and to define the legal text of the person concerned. Last but not least, in the case of the Apiculture Board, which has been made up of specifically mentioned organisations from the profession and recreational fisheries ■ as also mentioned by several of the rapporteurs, with the new wording of the provision, it is possible to have a much more flexible adaptation of membership in line with any changes in the organisation of fishing activities. I have noted the worried voices of at least a majority of the rapporteurs in relation to association vessels and, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said very precisely, the dilemma of being able to create this association vessel initiative, while there are also some security measures which are regulated in quite different legislation than in the Fisheries Act. And I know that several rapporteurs have also mentioned a concern about how we can ensure that this can work and preferably, if possible, this summer. I must be honest in saying that this is a dilemma, because I think it is crucial that we do not compromise on safety, that we are out at sea and that we must drive a vessel that suddenly becomes a professional fishing vessel, because you can actually land your catches and sell them; but then you are, in fact, suddenly a profession. But I understand that the political intention is to create this hybrid. And right now we're looking into the set of rules. The Maritime Authority's safety rules for when you operate at sea are, of course, tough, but in a way that makes good sense, because safety everything else is equal. I hope that we also agree on a high-quality watchmanship. But now we are going to have a thorough committee work and get a look at exactly the issue raised by several of the rapporteurs. So I look forward to good committee work. And those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142627	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142632	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I agree that it is a dilemma to make a model that lies somewhere between recreational fishing and commercial fishing, but I would also like to say that the way in which this law has been dealt with has been relatively clear in terms of professional fishing status. It is clear that suddenly the same rules apply to all sorts of other commercial fishermen with very, very large vessels with many fishing days and with very large turnovers. The association vessels at stake in this context are, after all, vessels which are currently engaged in fishing activities conducted by fishermen and which sometimes carry guests on board in order to communicate culture. So my question is, of course, whether I can understand the Minister in that she will be in favour of finding a model that will enable these association vessels to get out of this new marginal fishing already this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142739	It is tempting sometimes just reply quite briefly and say that the answer is yes. The answer is and I fully agree that the political intention is that we have just created this hybrid. And, yes, we are in a situation where, once we have done so and gone that way, it has become a de facto profession. So was it the wrong way we went? Is it really up to us to regulate something in the Fisheries Act, or is it really also just trying to find out whether there is any possibility that we can do this kind of association advertising, drive, etc. for acquired by some relaxations in relation to the Maritime Authority. It's like the two roads. Let us use our time precisely to see which way is the most sensible and, of course, do so in a way that hopefully we can deliver as soon as possible. I have also noted the wish that it should be this summer. Unfortunately, sometimes things take time to find wise solutions. At any rate, I find it difficult to compromise on safety rules, and that is the dilemma.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142853	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142856	The short answer was clearly the best, because it was just a yes. But I fully understand the dilemmas that exist, and I also agree that they are there. I am just appealing that we are now talking about the Danish Parliament, but I am also talking about the government in a broader sense than only the Minister for Fisheries. I am also thinking of the Minister for Industry and Industry. I also think of this as a new thing, which is not necessarily to equate one hundred percent with very large commercial fisheries, which have a completely different fishery. That is why there must be a hybrid, and I would just like to extend my hand to finding it in good and constructive committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301142939	When you reach out your hand, there's a risk that the whole arm will be taken. But it's really just an indication that, yes, that's the approach I kind of have to solve this task. And as a government and a minister, you are also aware that it is not always possible to solve everything with the legislation you have in your own area of responsibility. In this way, the government is also a college, and that is why, of course, there will also be discussions in other resorts to find out where it is that we find the wisest solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143007	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143019	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143031	Over 100,000 Danes live abroad and there are even more foreigners living in this country. Every healthy society has both immigration and exodus, just as you have to breathe a little into your house to avoid being too confined. Social democracy is therefore not generally opposed to immigration, but we are opposed to immigration when it gets too badly regulated when you cannot control who comes, when they come and how they come. There is a need for control of immigration. That is a perfectly reasonable requirement for any society. The people we are talking about today are precisely the part of immigration that is quite well regulated. There are now some 12 000 people on the so-called business schemes that will be covered by this bill. It can, for example, be done. is about people with special qualifications, special education, higher salaries and researchers, but it is also about people who work for lower wages in agriculture. The bill comes after a number of stories in the media about foreigners who have been caught up because they have broken the legislation on side-job work. Their residence permit is linked to a particular employer, but they have taken up work elsewhere and have therefore been met with a fine and a very long delay in their ability to obtain permanent residence in Denmark. There have also been newspaper reports that these foreigners cannot be volunteers at the scouts or at the football club without breaking the rules. The bill meets these injustices. First of all, these foreigners will now be able to take up to 12 hours a week's work from an employer other than the company in which they are principally employed as long as they do roughly the same kind of work. Secondly, their permanent residence permit will not be postponed for 15 years when they break the rules. Thirdly, it is now being opened up that these foreigners can be volunteers in society as long as they do not crowd out ordinary employees. Finally, the authorities' ability to monitor compliance with the rules is strengthened. We basically think that the draft law is good, but we have also taken the initiative to table a number of amendments. First of all, we want the approximately 2 000 who work in agriculture as feed masters and operators not to be covered by these reductions. There are plenty of challenges in enforcing general conditions in agriculture, and we therefore see no reason to relax the rules in this area. At the same time, we see no basis for relaxing the rules for foreigners who have come here to work on drilling platforms. For those groups, therefore, the possibility of taking up work with another employer and the possibility of setting up a business on their own side will not be covered by the government's proposals for reductions if our amendments come through. We have thus listened to the concerns expressed, among others. in the consultation round of the trade union movement, which fears pressure on the pay and working conditions of Danish employees. Secondly, after a few years, we want to see an evaluation of how the new rules have affected the labour market. Such a provision will also be included in an amendment. Finally, thirdly, we see no reason to completely eliminate the possibility of postponing the possibility of permanent residence for foreigners. In the first case, it makes good sense to release a fine, but if the rules continue to be violated, we think it is reasonable that it should continue to have consequences for the permanent residence permit. However, we propose that the possibility be maintained with a reduced waiting period from 15 to 7 years. Finally, I would just like to mention that, as far as I am aware, a lot of people are caught up because the authorities have become better at collating some registers. This is true, for example. the researchers and musicians who have appeared in the media. That is the whole reason why we are here today. For the Social Democrats, it would be desirable if these specific people could be covered by the new rules, so that they would not have to wait 15 years for permanent residence, but could only pay the fine. I think it would suit us if it were legally possible, and we will try to clarify this in committee. With those amendments and comments, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143436	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143441	Thank you. I am generally pleased that the rapporteur supports the draft law on the whole, but I do not understand this aversion against Danish agriculture. Why do you want to go in and pull the Danish agricultural offices out of this really, really nice proposal? The people who work in agriculture are often highly specialised or often have many years of experience which they might share by having a second job. Why do you want to punish Danish agriculture in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143515	When these cases started coming into the media, we saw, among other things. a tax researcher and some musicians, and the researcher wanted to give a lecture somewhere else, including. in here in the Folketing, and the musicians wanted the opportunity to play tuba for a symphony orchestra somewhere else in the country. I think most of us can see that makes sense. However, there are also some 2 000 Eastern Europeans, including a great many Ukrainians, on some of these agricultural schemes, and we do not think there is any basis for having to open up further that they should be able to work in Danish agriculture, when we already see that there are problems both in getting agriculture covered by collective agreements and in ensuring that there are general wages and working conditions in agriculture. That's why we don't see any reason to make these relaxations here. If it is the case that there should be someone here as an operator or feeder who wants to work at the neighbouring farm, then they can just apply, as they can today, for permission to take a side job on another farm. However, we do not see any basis for opening up the door when we already have problems in enforcing the rules in this area to be able to do a side job without such an application being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143622	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143625	I find that argument difficult to follow. Danish agriculture in particular is highly, highly dependent on foreign labour, which comes and contributes, so why and I do not feel right that the rapporteur made a real response • restrict it? Why, for example, do we have to do this? a foreign feed master does not give a lecture in the evening about what he is working with and in this way enrich young Danes who may want to work in agriculture with the experience? Why does agriculture want to be restricted exactly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143659	We don't think a young feed champion should be running around giving lectures. As far as I understand the government's bill, it is also a question of a young feed master being able to go to the neighbouring farm and be a feed master doing the same type of work, and we do not see any need for that. We can see a need for a musician to go around playing tuba in another orchestra, and that a researcher at the University of Copenhagen can go out and give a lecture to the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee, for example, but we see no basis or need for there to be, if you are here on a work permit to work on a particular farm, then also to be able to assist without having to apply for it, in an area where there are already problems in enforcing Danish pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143738	There are no more brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Seligman's question. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301143747	Thank you. I must not hide the fact that in the Danish People's Party we think that large parts of the bill, but also the course that has been, have been very strange. It's like this in Denmark and here in the Danish Parliament that if, for example, A sweet Asian woman gets married to Mr. Jensen or Mr. Hansen, and she then forgets to go up to a Danish test or god forbid it forgets to submit some things on time to the authorities, then there is a broad majority here in the Folketing who believes that then it has some clear consequences. That is the way it should be, and we also have that view in the Danish People's Party. Sometimes you may have to go back to your home country and apply again from there because you have not made sure that things have been put right. That is where we make clear demands in such a case. It's not like we go in and say that if people can't figure out how to abide by the rules, we'll just change the rules. We do not do that; there we stand by the fact that we have made some rules, we stand by them and expect people to get in touch with the rules. Of course, if they do not, it has consequences. But here we are talking about very skilled foreigners, foreign researchers, people who are so skilled, one must understand that we cannot do without them at all and that society can hardly drive around if they do not come to Denmark. In other words, people who are so clever and have taken long courses and have all sorts of conditions to understand the rules and requirements we make. When they break the rules, we just change the rules. We in the Danish People's Party find this rather strange. Because it should, of course, be those people who can figure out the rules with the long courses they have. So that's our approach to this. Plus that it is the case that many of the things that have been promoted in the media have been fined and otherwise sanctioned because they have done different things like giving lectures in different places. All you have to do is ask for legislation and, as far as I know, you have been informed about the rules, so you know that you have to ask for law and have to make sure that you contact the relevant authorities. And as I understand it, you're practically always allowed to do it. So you have spent a very long time solving a problem that is not really a problem. We also find it difficult to understand that, now that there have been cases in the media about foreign researchers, why should we suddenly start relaxing the rules for all sorts of other people working on drilling platforms, people working in agriculture? Why have they suddenly come into this bill when what it's been all about is foreign scientists? So I think that the government is just taking the opportunity to get some of its policy through in relation to foreign labour, because there have been some situations with some foreign researchers. I admit that when you look at the way the media have produced it, it does not always look as appropriate, so there will also be some amendments from the Danish People's Party. Nor do we think that it should be possible to start an independent business in Denmark without further ado. If you have come here and have been allowed to work for a particular company, we think that that is where you work, and if you want to do an independent business in Denmark then we think that if you have the opportunity, then it is fair enough that you apply for it to be okay. So it is the case today that if you work illegally Denmark, it has a consequence, and it has among other things. the consequence that it will be harder for you to obtain permanent residence permits. That's where the government will go in and weaken the rules, so it won't be harder for these people to get permanent residence permits. You want to remove the Karen period that is, and we think this is a bad idea from the Danish People's Party. When people work illegally in Denmark, it must have a consequence, and it must also be the case that it becomes more difficult to obtain permanent residence permits in Denmark. Moreover, it is true that for foreigners who work a lot, it is already a little easier to obtain permanent residence permits, so there is no reason to meet them in this area too. And, of course, we will also be tabling an amendment there. If you have to come up with something positive to say, you can say that it makes sense for a foreign researcher to be allowed to be a football coach in a football club without asking for permission first. It's okay. But that is probably the only thing that really makes sense in this proposal. So we are rather sceptical on the part of the Danish People's Party and we have to see what comes out of it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144237	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144246	Thank you, President. In the Left, we believe that foreigners coming to Denmark should contribute to society. That is simply a requirement, and that is why we must also stop and ensure that we are reasonable when we make that demand and do not unduly restrict it. Thus, it is important that with this proposal we amend the rules for secondary and voluntary work so that the foreigners who intend to do so can make it easier to contribute to Danish society. I mean, without seeing these unfortunate things, where, for example... researchers are actually being punished for having a relevant side job. The draft law here is based on a number of specific cases where the rules for obtaining work permits for secondary employment have been inflexible. We must always look at whether our legislation works out in the real world. Foreigners with a residence and work permit as researchers are thus now allowed to take a second job without first submitting an application. The new rules on no longer having to submit a separate application to obtain a work permit also apply to other foreigners who have a residence permit based on secondary employment. Those foreigners who wish to contribute by doing unpaid voluntary work such as: Soccer coach, it's like sir. Martin Henriksen was so happy with the application exemption. And that's a really good idea, because then foreigners can contribute as much as possible while they're here. Having said that, it is important for me to stress that we must continue to have control over which foreigners are granted work permits and control the content of work permits. That is why I note with satisfaction that the draft law also contains a limitation on the extent of secondary employment. When the focus is on secondary employment, there must also be a link between main and secondary employment. In this way, we can make sure that the more flexible rules lead to real permits for secondary employment and are not abused. In addition, the content of the draft law also points out that the 15-year waiting period is still maintained for foreigners without a residence permit who have carried out illegal work. I am convinced that the bill will succeed with more flexible rules for foreigners to do secondary work and voluntary work. That is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144511	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144516	Thank you. Why abolish the carnage period? It's just because it's foreign labour. So if you've come here to work as a foreigner, you can afford a little more than everyone else. Is it simply the thinking behind abolishing the carnage period for the people we are talking about here? I mean, why is that? Because if the Left normally has that view and I think that I have picked up normally is the view of the Left that if you break the rules, it has a consequence, and if you want to be here permanently at some point in time, it becomes more difficult to obtain a permanent residence permit, the more times you have broken the rules, why should it not apply to people who illegally take work in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144558	Well, the waiting period continues, as I said, for people who are here illegally. However, as far as people who are here legally are concerned, we have had some cases where people have been punished quite unfairly, despite the fact that they were actually legally resident in Denmark. And that is why we believe that if you are already here and are here on legal residence and have a job that you are allowed to do, then we want to relax the rules in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144622	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144625	Well, I just don't think it's an answer to the question. Moreover, you cannot obtain a permanent residence permit if you are staying illegally in Denmark. But I do not think that is an answer to the question. In other words, why should there not be a consequence for them in relation to the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits? They've broken the rules. Why should people who are really smart and really good be exempt? We always get to know that; these people can do a lot of things. They have all sorts of prerequisites for getting to grips with the rules. Why, then, should there not be a consequence for them when they violate the rules? Of course there has to be. I simply do not understand the position of the Left in relation to this view. In relation to the fact that other groups of foreigners will be involved in the labour market, which has nothing to do with what has been promoted in the media and which the government has problematized, namely in agriculture and on drilling platforms, it would not be better, for example, if we were to do so. some Danes moved from cash aid to work in agriculture, instead of saying that some of those in agriculture from Ukraine work a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144715	Thank you. Well, in terms of getting Danes into the labour market, we have done an enormous amount of work, and I would say that our Minister for Employment has had a very, very great success in getting people from passive support into active self-support. We are not in the finish line, but we have come very, very far. As far as agriculture is concerned, I believe that, as I said to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye that they are such an important part of our economy; we are so dependent on foreigners when it comes to agriculture. So I think that only makes sense. In relation to the very question of the Karen period, I would like to say that, as I have said, we have had some very, very unfortunate cases in which we have felt that people have been unfairly punished, despite being here legally, for example. researchers. And we don't want to do that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144759	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301144811	Thank you. There are two considerations we need to take into account when we have to deal with this bill. One is that it should not be too hasty to take advantage of the opportunity for secondary employment in relation to the main occupation, which is already in the law today, and which the alien has been given work permits for the main occupation. The second is that, as in the past, we must do what we can to ensure that foreigners in this country work on equal terms, that is. It is also a condition for obtaining a work permit for the main occupation and today also for the secondary occupation. It is, of course, a fundamental principle of Danish immigration policy, and it is at least also the basic view of Enhedslisten that foreigners are welcome in this country and are also welcome to work in this country, but it must be done on equal terms with residents, in other words on usual terms and conditions of pay and employment. As the draft law now stands, we do not believe that there is the necessary balance between the two considerations. This is mainly due to the fact that there is no longer any requirement for a work permit for secondary employment, and hence no requirement for it to be carried out under normal pay and employment conditions. I guess that happens, while at the same time proposing a quite high 12-hour frame on average per hour. In addition, it is important to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the work of the social partners in order to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the social partners. In addition, there are some ambiguities in the proposal. The second job must be linked to the main job, it says. This is so illustrated by some examples, but it is not in itself a clear definition, and we believe that this can cause some problems for foreigners who take advantage of the opportunity. When are they on the right side of the line? The purpose of this should be to avoid such rather silly cases as those that have been mentioned in the media, but the question is, of course, whether this is avoided by the definition being proposed here. Another rather vague issue is the whole question of the definition of voluntary service. Of course, foreigners staying in the country should have the opportunity to participate in voluntary activities on an equal footing with residents, preferably for Enhedslisten. However, the draft law does not seem to have the same definitions of voluntary association, voluntary activity and voluntary unpaid work as applied in the employment legislation which entered into force on 1 January of this year. I think that is quite unfortunate. It's pretty unclear. I have also asked some questions about this and look forward to getting an answer to what it can give of problems. It is not because I think that the new legislation we have received in this area is particularly good, but there is a thorough preparatory work which will be useful in interpreting cases of doubt. This cannot be said for the definitions outlined in this bill. So there's something to fix there, too. We are in favour of relaxing the quarantine for illegal work for foreigners with a residence permit. We do not think it is fair to have a 15-year quarantine before applying for a permanent residence permit because you have been fined for working in breach of the rules. We think that is out of proportion. After all, we have noticed that the Social Democrats are going to table some amendments, and we are in favour of two of them. Whether it is enough to say that we have restored the balance between the two considerations I think we should take here is too early to say for the Enhedslisten. So, so far, the conclusion is that we cannot vote for the bill as it stands here. There are a number of questions we need answers to and a number of problems we need to deal with before we can take a final position, and we are looking forward to doing so in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301145218	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301145230	Thank you for that President-in-Office. I am sorry that we were caught by cheerfulness just now, but that will not happen again. A professor knows something about tax havens, comes and shares his knowledge with the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee, and the consequence becomes a fine to the professor and a fine to the Danish Parliament. Most people can see that is an absurd state of law. And that's not the only case we know about. An oboeist in the South Jutland came to play on his oboe in the company of the wrong people and was similarly threatened with fire and fire. It is reasonable that you should, as a starting point, stick to the job that your residence permit is subject to, but when you cannot do even very small and very relevant side activities such as making the Folketing smarter without having to apply for special permits, the system has become too square. We must, of course, have a strict immigration policy which ensures that those who do not contribute are not here, but that in this way we start punishing people for doing something that we would like them to do, and then they do more of what we want them to do than they are actually hired to do, is therefore an expression of some rulership that has gone too far. Now we're gonna get things right. One can have a secondary job up to 10 hours a week within one's field of activity, one can do voluntary work, and the waiting period in relation to permanent residence is removed if one has worked illegally with a valid residence permit. Of course, it must have some sort of consistency not to comply with the rules, but many of these cases, especially those that have been brought forward in the press, have been cases where it was quite clear that people, because of a very opaque system, had come to act inadvertently, and that is where we are having the proportionality restored now. This is all very, very positive, and that is why the Liberal Alliance can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301145437	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301145444	Thank you. It is actually a very good day today, because at last we will have some changes not only, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, rather meaningless, but also quite opaque rules on secondary employment and voluntary work for foreigners who have come to Denmark to work invited here to work. I myself will never forget Jimmy Martinez-Correa, who shed a tear in front of hundreds of people when I met him in January. He is a researcher at CBS, comes from Colombia and was called a criminal here in Denmark because at his employer, CBS' request he had taught economics alongside at DIIS, the Institute for American Students in Denmark on exchange. And he was very affected because being called a criminal to make his labour available at the request of his Danish employer was the worst thing he had ever tried with the background he had. I also believe that we are all going to forget Brooke Harrington, who has been fined and has been deprived of the right to apply for a residence permit in Denmark because she helped the Parliamentary Tax Committee to understand international rules on tax havens and the fight against tax havens. It has been so absurd that not only has one felt the need to take a look at the head, but in the same way as Jimmy Martinez-Correa breaks down in tears. It will now come to an end, and we in the Radical Left can hardly get our arms down on that. Let this be the start of abolishing more meaningless laws. Now foreign researchers and visiting researchers are free to take side jobs without a time limit and without submitting a separate application for as long as the secondary job is related to the main job. That's really good. But we think it is a pity that it is limited to researchers alone. We in the Radical Left do not actually quite understand that. Why can it not also apply to others who have come here in good jobs? Why should they not be able to help in side jobs, as everyone else can, without having to apply for it? It still seems unnecessarily bureaucratic. Why, at least, aren't all specialists? I agree, and it is very good that others are entitled to 12 hours of side jobs per week on average without having to apply. That is a good thing, but it is still bureaucracy, and we would just like to be free of that. Then, as others have said, it will be possible to be a football coach and to do other volunteer work without having to apply for it. That's really good, thanks for that. And foreign workers are no longer covered by a 15-year waiting period in connection with the possibility of obtaining permanent residence.Thank you very much for that, that is very good. So it is a good day and I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Alternative, who agrees with the points I have outlined here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301145824	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301145836	The law must protect our labour market, protect it by both creating space for the people who are needed and who have specific competences, and by protecting our labour market from social dumping. All sorts of things for creative employers are constantly looking for holes, for cat hatches, so that they can save on wage costs, so that at the same time they can save up in the bank. They go after the newspaper grab the phone, call a temporary employment agency, and a few days later there are subjugated, disciplined, underpaid workers from the East, or by setting up shell companies in an East country that bring in underpaid workers from e.g. Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Ukraine or the Philippines. But at the same time, there must be sniffery in the system. That is why there is good reason for foreign researchers to be given the opportunity to take up secondary jobs, just as there must, of course, be the opportunity to do voluntary work. But it is playing with fire, whose exemption from work permits is extended beyond very narrow limits. On the other hand, we also think that a 15-year quarantine after a relatively small fine seems out of proportion. The main point must be in relation to our labour market that both foreign companies, foreign workers, foreign researchers, yes, all sorts of others are welcome in Denmark, but they are only welcome here if they want to comply with Danish agreements, respect Danish trade unions, Danish health and safety legislation and otherwise pay VAT and tax. The Danes should not see themselves competed out of their own jobs. The SF, together with the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, will table some amendments. You've already been announced by sir. Mattias Tesfaye, and when they, as I expect, are passed, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301150048	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301150057	Thank you. Thank you for a good debate on this bill. A foreigner usually has to have a work permit to work here in Denmark, and that is how it should be. However, the rules must also have the necessary flexibility. Here, the current requirement for separate applications works if, for example, one of the following applies: works a few hours next to his research, too rigid. The rules have been as they are for decades, but they have not followed with time, and the government now wants to change that. The Government proposes with the bill that researchers should be entitled to a second job without applying for a work permit if there is a connection with the main job. This will allow researchers to use their knowledge and skills as much as possible, and it is for the benefit of Denmark. We also propose that the other foreign workers be entitled to a second job for 12 hours a week, calculated as an average over a quarter, without applying for a work permit. Here too, of course, it is on condition that you work with what you have been granted a residence permit for. This means, for example, that: The orchestral musician will be able to play in another orchestra or teach at the music school, but must not take secondary work as a cook. The Government will also allow foreign workers to carry out unpaid voluntary work without having to submit an application for a work permit. We have no interest in state agencies going in over whether a foreign scientist trains his son in football in his spare time. Finally, the government is also proposing to amend the rules on the 15-year waiting period in connection with obtaining unlimited residence permits. Today, foreigners who are punished for having worked illegally are prevented from obtaining unconditional residence permits for 15 years. This is true even if the alien has only been fined and whether or not the alien has had a residence permit. The government simply believes that there should be a better balance in the rules. All foreigners must be able to be punished if they work illegally, but in relation to the Karen period there is, in the view of the government, a reason to distinguish between foreigners who work illegally but still have a residence permit in this country and foreigners who do not have a residence permit. The Government therefore proposes that foreigners who have a residence permit should no longer be covered by the Karen rule for 15 years as a result of illegal work. They will thus be subject to the general rules applicable next door and applicable in cases where the sentence of liberty is imposed. The government's view is that foreigners who have a residence permit should not meet with a waiting period because they have been fined for illegal work. It will often be the case that this is due to a misunderstanding of the rules, and I actually think the cases we have seen bear witness to that. Foreigners who do not have a residence permit and work illegally will, as in the past, be covered by the 15-year waiting period, and this also applies when the penalty is a fine. That means, for example, that this is the case. apply to asylum seekers without authorisation. Then the Social Democrats have said that they want to exempt certain foreign workers from the new rules. It was sir. Marcus Knuth also mentioned. I would like to say that I fully agree with Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth in the view that, frankly, it is a shame and also a rather strange approach to an industry, namely agriculture. The aim of the bill is to limit the need to apply for work permits for secondary employment, so we avoid these stupid cases that we have seen too many of. But why should this flexibility only apply to certain groups? The government simply sees no reason to pluck in the workers, so some groups of workers still have to be affected by the inflexible and now old rules that the Social Democratic Party has put forward here. We think this is wrong and it will hit Danish agriculture unnecessarily hard. I can say that we are vertically opposed to that. So with these words I would like to thank you for an otherwise good debate and then I shall look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301150606	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301150619	The debate is open. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 13 March 2018. That is the rapporteur for the questioners for a explanatory statement. Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301150640	Thank you, President. It's really very simple. For us, the stateless convention has been a stone in the shoe, because, among other things, we have. Since 2011, three persons have been granted citizenship who were suspected of PET in order to endanger the security of the realm. This has been done because the stateless Convention said that citizenship should be granted. It is, of course, quite unacceptable that it has been the case that we are trying, with this debate, to strike a proper balance in what might be called the general legal conditions, so that the Danes can sense that such absurdities should not be repeated. Those persons who have acquired citizenship in relation to the stateless Convention since 2011 and up to 2015 have not fulfilled one of the conditions required to obtain Danish citizenship. And it must be assumed that when police intelligence warns against it, it is because they could be a threat to the security of the realm, one must assume that there is a risk to those people, and indeed that they could even be very dangerous. Nevertheless, under the former Social Democrat-led government, these three persons were granted citizenship by a single majority, except for the Danish People's Party. Then, in October 2015, the Minister promised to address the problems of the stateless Convention, to enter into negotiations, etc. and press for a change. Of course, we were happy about that when we heard it. But I would say that it has been a while since then. We have had it up before, and we actually think that a very, very long time has gone by. I look forward to the debate and to hearing what the Minister has to say. And I would also like to say that there are other things connected with this stateless convention. Among other things, you can... I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think that is outrageous, too. However, I hope that the Minister will have a solution ready for these people who are being warned against by PET so that they will not have citizenship in the future. If it were to happen again that a majority other than DF gave such citizenship to a person like them, it would be totally absurd. However, I hope that we will have a good debate and that the Minister will finally have a solution ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301150947	Thank you. That was the reason. Then we need the answer. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301150953	Thank you. I have looked forward to this debate on the question, in which I will once again be able to explain the challenges we face, with the 1961 United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness, also known as the stateless Convention. Denmark ratified the stateless Convention back in 1977. The aim of the Convention is to limit statelessness and it obliges the Member States, inter alia, to: to ensure that stateless persons born in Member States have easier access to a nationality. Of course, we recognise that in the government, but as I have also said repeatedly before, the government also believes that we need to look critically at parts of our obligations under the stateless Convention. Specifically, we have a challenge with the issue of granting citizenship to people who may be a threat to the security of the country. Applicants who are not born stateless persons in Denmark and are thus not covered by the stateless Convention may be excluded from Danish nationality if the PET considers that they may endanger the security of the country. However, as a result of the stateless Convention, we do not have that option when it comes to persons covered by the Convention, that is to say. people born stateless in Denmark who submit an application for Danish citizenship from the age of 18 and before they reach the age of 21. A person who is covered by the stateless Convention may be excluded from citizenship only because of crime if the applicant has been found guilty of a crime against the security of the State or has been sentenced to a minimum of five years' imprisonment. According to the wording of the Convention, it is therefore not enough for the applicant to be assessed as a threat to the security of the country. It may occur that a person is deemed to be a threat to the security of the country, but that there is no evidence that is sufficient for the person to be convicted of a crime against the security of the state. Such persons are therefore not excluded from Danish nationality under the stateless convention. In other words, we are obliged to grant Danish citizenship to a person covered by the stateless convention, although PET has considered that he or she may be a threat to the security of the country. That is, in the opinion of the government and, of course, of course, also the fundamental problem when it comes to the stateless Convention. As I have said repeatedly, we in the government do not want stateless persons considered by PET to be a threat to the security of the country to be granted citizenship. This is an issue of great concern to me and to the government, and I personally believe that it has no time at all on earth that a person who may be a threat to the security of the country should be entitled to Danish citizenship, regardless of the fact that he is a stateless person. It is therefore the government's view that it is necessary to ensure that persons who are deemed to be a threat to the country's security are not granted citizenship. Such persons must, in the view of the government, be able to be treated as persons subject to the criminal law requirements of the Convention, i.e.: persons who have been found guilty of a crime against the security of the State or who have been sentenced to a minimum of five years' imprisonment. As I have said, we in the government take this matter very seriously and, as I have said before, we have considered how best to deal with the issue, including in relation to the UN system. The government is therefore also currently in dialogue with the UN on Denmark's challenges with the stateless Convention. Thus, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have had a meeting with the UNHCR at official level, where the problem has been raised and also the government's view of the stateless Convention has been presented, and we are in the process of trying to address the challenges posed by the stateless Convention. I can say so much that, in our view, the UNHCR dialogue is positive and we are now awaiting the outcome of that process. However, it is too early at this stage to say anything more about how and when things are going to happen, and I hope the Danish Parliament understands that. However, as I have already indicated, I will of course keep the Committee on the Rights of the Child informed when there is something significant new in the matter. I would like to conclude by repeating that this is an important matter, and this is a matter that we are looking at very seriously in the government. I therefore also welcome this question. It is important that we tackle the challenge of the stateless Convention in the best possible way, including in relation to the UN system. I can tell you that we're doing everything we can for the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301151556	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We shall now proceed to the debate. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301151623	I remember quite clearly the first time I got acquainted with a so-called PET case in connection with citizenship. It was about the autumn of 2011, when I, as chairman of the Committee of Insights, was called by Minister for Justice Morten Bødskov, who told me that there was a letter coming over to the committee where PET informed of someone who could be a threat to the security of the realm. I was about to go backwards with amazement and outrage when I learned that a single majority would give this person citizenship. True, the stateless convention required that you do so, and then a majority estimated that you just had to fuck your heels together and say yes and amen. The Socialist-led government at that time did not think there was a problem at all. Here was the only answer one could get out of Minister for Justice Morten Bødskov: Denmark must comply with its international obligations, Denmark must comply with its international obligations, and that is how it continued. It sounded like a phonograph album that had gone into nocturnal. The Stateless Convention was not to be questioned or questioned. At the time, as now, I thought that it was appalling that a potential terrorist was being rewarded with citizenship, just as it was outrageous that no consideration was given to Denmark and the Danes, but only to international obligations. At that time, I painted the scenario that a person whom PET had warned against when he had obtained citizenship from a unified Parliament, except DF, went out and committed an act of terror. The Danes would rightly be able to accuse the Social Democrat-led government and a large majority of the Danish Parliament of having failed their task and failed the Danes most shamefully by rewarding a terrorist with citizenship. At that time, the whole left-wing nonchalant replied that citizenship did not make any difference if this person committed terror. Of course, I replied, but I believe that there is a huge difference between whether a majority in the Folketing rewards a person with citizenship, whom PET has otherwise warned against, or whether it does not. There was no recognition at the time of the left that there should be a problem. I suggested at the time that the Minister of Justice could just pick the person off the bill, but he refused. Social democracy at that time, like the rest of the left, did not care. Since then, there have been two more cases, three PET cases between 2011 and 2015, and each time it has been the same circus that went on. Honestly, at the time, as now, I thought it was a scandal, but I also admit that there was a marked difference in degree in the debate at the time. For the other bourgeois parties, the grave problem of giving citizenship to a person warned by PET could be a threat to the security of the empire, and they also criticized at the time that the government of that time did nothing. I think the bourgeois parties should have voted against the whole citizenship bill with us at the time, but that is the past now. As regards the current government, the Minister promised in 2015 that she and the government would do something about it. It has been a long time, I would just like to say, and I think we have been very long-suffering. Now I understand that the Minister is ready with a solution that should be right on the stairs and not only when the sun burns out. So we have reason to believe that this is actually going to happen, and thank you for that. That is why we also believe that we can be involved in a joint proposal for adoption with the government. Because we actually trust them to do something about it. However, there are still some challenges with the stateless Convention. You can actually commit crimes with up to 5 years in prison and still get citizenship. In fact, we think that is also an atrocity. Among other things, you can... commit negligent manslaughter, rape can be committed and paedophilia can be committed and citizenship can still be acquired under the stateless convention. So we think that's wrong. But still away: there is progress and the crucial thing for us has only been that we stop the practice of giving citizenship to potential terrorists. Therefore, I would then like to read out a proposal for adoption, which applies to government parties and us and the Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that stateless persons assessed by the Police Intelligence Service may be a threat to the country's security, should not be granted Danish citizenship on the basis of the UN Convention of 30 August 1961 on the Limitation of Statelessness. In this respect, Parliament notes with satisfaction that the government has entered into dialogue with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and calls on the government to continue to work to ensure that persons considered to be a threat to the country's security are not granted Danish citizenship. The Danish Parliament notes that the government has committed itself to working for a solution and that the government will inform the Danish Parliament when there is substantial news in the matter. V 42). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152239	The proposal for adoption will now be included in the further debate. There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152247	It is just a simple question for one of the last sentences, as Mr. Christian Langballe joined us. For Mr. Christian Langballe said that the Minister proposed a solution to the problem which Mr. Christian Langballe outlines. However, as I heard the Minister, she spoke only of the fact that we are in a dialogue with the UNHCR. Well, then it's 'cause sir. Christian Langballe has another knowledge? Or how did Mr. Christian Langballe Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152318	I heard the Minister in that way that the government has undertaken to find a solution to this problem, finished, over. That is what I read out in the text of the adoption, and we are counting on it now. I think it has taken a long time to do that, and I must admit that honestly, but I also know that it is complicated. But still gone: It's been a very long time. I note from the text of the adoption that the government has committed itself to finding a solution to this problem and we trust it will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152348	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152349	Okay. It is simply to clarify: so what is at issue is that one has undertaken to find a solution, but not that one has understood correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152401	I can put it this way that there will be a solution, and it will not come only when the sun burns out, but it will come so that somehow, if PET warns against a person, we can put these matters on hold. I think that's what I'm going to do, and I trust that's what I'm going to do. Otherwise, I can promise you we'll come with fire and fire if this promise isn't fulfilled. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152435	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152441	Thank you. First of all, we in the Social Democratic Party of course find it deeply problematic that we may be forced to grant Danish citizenship to citizens when we know that they are a threat to the security of the state. And although there are few people involved, it is, of course, deeply tragic when it has happened. But at the risk of sir... Christian Langballe says that I am putting the record on, I would say that we believe that Denmark should be careful not to go alone in breaking down the few international rules that exist. However, it is clear that there are problematic examples that the stateless Convention protects people who do not deserve protection, rather than protecting all of us. However, Denmark must, of course, abide by the conventions that we ourselves have signed. We therefore support the dialogue that the government has had with relevant bodies in the United Nations and we continue to believe that people who are at risk of Denmark's security and who pose a threat to certain groups of people in our country should not be granted Danish citizenship. Therefore, we can support the proposal for adoption made with the Danish People's Party and the government in the hope that a good solution will be found if not tomorrow, then at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152551	There are some brief comments. Mr President, first of all, there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152557	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to know Mr. Christian Langballe also mentioned why the Social Democratic Party did nothing about this problem when you sat with the government, which after all you had a good time, and so you had the responsible ministerial post. If the Social Democrats believe that this is a problem, why did they not deal with it when they had the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152621	Because, I suppose, at that time, we were faced with the same problem that the current government is facing. I know there are eight out of nine countries that will not support Denmark in changing some of these rules. We still want to do that. But we think it is a problem if we are the only country to withdraw from a convention. That is probably the difference between the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152641	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152642	What's the most important thing? Is it to observe the international rules of the game, or is it to ensure the security of the empire?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152653	It is to ensure the security of the realm. But in relation to the international conventions, it goes both ways. This also means that there is security for some of our citizens in other countries. It is because we have rules that we have signed that are binding. But we clearly support all attempts to change this. That is why we, together with the Danish People's Party, are also discussing this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152715	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152717	Thank you. My question follows up a little, because at the time when Mrs Karen Hækkerup of the Social Democratic Party was Minister of Justice, I had her in consultation to ask if she would address the problem which the present government is now dealing with, and I was given the following answer: since I consider it to be hopeless, I am not prepared to make contact with the countries which have otherwise ratified the Convention with a view to negotiating an amendment to the Convention. Well, back then it was thought to be hopeless. There was nothing to do, you gave up. What is the rapporteur's comment on the fact that it is obviously not hopeless?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152800	I don't know if it's hopeless either. I do not know whether the government itself is proud of the fact that, in the election campaign, it was promised to solve this problem, and it has not come very far. So it's really, really hard. One could have tried back then, one can try now, but no one can promise the voters that one can solve it unless one wants to go alone and break out of the conventions. Nor have I understood that the Left will.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152820	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152823	No, it is true that we will not. But it's not a lot of fights you win if you give up in advance. Mrs. Karen Hækkerup threw the towel into the ring, despite the fact that she had previously said very sloppyly that something had to be done about this, but then when she became a minister I have an article here from the Politiken so she said: I have spoken with the official work today. And then suddenly she meant something else. But it is nice that we can emphasise once again that social democracy is best in opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152855	Yeah, it's very funny. It is also to be welcomed that we agree on some things. One might also ask: which Minister of Justice under the Fogh governments contributed anything on this point? Then we can go back and ask who did something under Nyrup, who did something under Anker Jørgensen, who did something under Poul Hartling? I guess we can be pleased that we all take this very seriously and try to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152912	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301152914	I would say that the reason why some people take this seriously is that the Danish People's Party has brought this case forward a dozen times. But where I just get a little off in this discussion I have to say that concerns the Social Democrats having changed their attitude. I recognise that, but I just don't like the one that constructed history, where, so to speak, you have to make the story about, so that all of a sudden it seems like Anker Jørgensen was the great value warrior in the refugee field, etc. etc. What I saw just remember from then on is that Morten Bødskov as Minister of Justice didn't even recognize the fact that he didn't even recognize! He didn't even recognize the problem. I just have to say that and he was very nonchalant with the rest of the left and thought it was nonsense. Well, you just thought it was totally irrelevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153017	I didn't even mention Anker Jørgensen in my speech. Having said that, one can say that with the way Dansk Folkeparti ran it then, it was perhaps also time for a post-rationalisation. I would like to take it upon myself that we could have done something different, but perhaps you could have not hanged out all the citizens at the time when you made a big ad with 700 names. I can't remember how many names it was on people who hadn't done anything at all and wrote that one of them was a terrorist. If we are finally to look back, there were many things that could have been done differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153042	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153044	Well, I don't regret anything; I might as well say that. And I know that this case is coming before the Supreme Court, and then we'll have to take it there. But I do not regret anything, because it was a question of drawing attention to a problem which was the problem of the Folketing in saying yes. And by the fact that a government through the Minister of Justice accepted this without any kind of handshake, he suspected even all the people on the list, because people knew there was someone on the list that PET had warned against. You knew that, and then you could go in and look at the list and ask, "Who do you think it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153121	I would also be surprised if the Danish People's Party regretted anything at any time. Having said that, I believe that Mr. Christian Langballe would find it strange to stand on a list and be accused by name of something, knowing that he had done nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153136	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153143	It's also a great day for me, because this was one of the first cases I ever got acquainted with as a new member of parliament. I was also appalled at the fact that we had to give people the citizenship of the state that they were thus actively fighting. On my very first consultation it was with Minister of Justice Morten Bødskov of the Social Democratic Party that began the consultation with the idea that I was the one who was wrong about something. The Minister apparently did not understand my question, because the only thing the Minister answered was: I think it is important for Denmark to comply with its international obligations. I tried time and again to rephrase my question, whether social democracy did not agree that there was a problem, whether social democracy might consider addressing the problem, etc., but the only answer I got from Morten Bødskov was: The government believes it is important that we respect our international obligations. And as the consultation progressed, I found out that it was not me who was wrong with it, but that it was probably rather the Minister. Later on, I asked a number of in-depth committee questions, where we found that the legal situation was, as it were, even worse than the Minister explained in his opening speech, not only that persons who were considered to be a threat to the security of the empire by PET could not be prevented from obtaining Danish citizenship, but that if persons who had actively shown that they were a threat to the security of the empire, that is, persons who had committed a terrorist attack which had been arrested by the police, who had been imprisoned, who had been convicted in the court of the city, had appealed to the Court of Justice. I found this state of law to be totally untenable, and it was an overall blue block that thought it was completely untenable, and that is why we had invited the Minister of Justice to a conciliation meeting. And we had some hope of being responsive by the Social Democratic Party, for Karen Hækkerup, who had been the legal rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party when one was in opposition, said to the Berlingske Tidende on 24 June 2011: My recommendation is that when PET recommends that someone should not have citizenship because they are a threat to the security of the empire, that recommendation should be followed. If this is contrary to the Convention, the Convention must be changed. When there was a change of minister and Morten Bødskov was no longer Minister for Justice, but was replaced by Karen Hækkerup, who received the post, I thought it was of course interesting to hear whether we could now expect action from the Minister. But it happened that the Minister spoke to his official work. There is an article in Politiken from January 9, 2014, entitled "Minists: I have spoken with the official work today. Then Karen Hækkerup said at the time, four weeks after she was appointed Minister, that she had spoken with the Ministry of Justice on that day, and after that conversation she had found out that there was nothing to do with it. This may well show the difference between the minister then and the current minister, because when the current minister talks to the official work, the current minister tells the official work what to do, while at the time it was the other way around, because there was the official work that told the minister what to do. So now something's happening. I agree with the Danish People's Party that it has taken a long time, and after my patience it has taken too long, but that is how it is with many things in here when you come from the private business community, so I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for sticking to the fire and raising the debate we have here today, so that we can hopefully get that stone out of the shoe, as Mr. Christian Langballe spoke of in his opening speech. Perhaps there is a slight difference between the position of the government, the position of the Left, and the position of the Danish People's Party. We believe that if there is a stone in the shoe, you should take the stone out of the shoe, you should not throw the shoe away, because in the Left we think it is important to combat statelessness, which is why we are also basically in favour of having a stateless convention. There is a difference between not having citizenship and having citizenship in another country, and therefore it is reasonable that the bar should be lower for stateless persons who want Danish citizenship than for persons who have citizenship other than Danish citizenship. So we wait in excitement and hope that the results will be positive, so that we can bring to an end the unhappy situation we are in today, so that in future we can ensure that those who acquire Danish citizenship are not, in other words, planning to attack the state in which they want to be a citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153646	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153650	A wise man once said that if you stop believing in God, you start to believe in everything else, and I would like to put that at risk with regard to human rights and conventions, because what is the problem is these eternal and unchangeable human rights that can never be changed and where no common sense whatsoever can prove that a convention is inappropriate. Now we've gone over these three PET cases. I would also like to say that I think it is actually inappropriate to have committed negligent manslaughter, to have been able to commit paedophilia and rape and yet to have citizenship, because it just requires that we do not crawl over the penalty of five years. I simply think that this is highly unsatisfactory and there I simply believe that the Convention is contrary to common sense, and it should be the case that political documents, contractual documents, should be able to be changed if reality is changed. It's just an indication that it's also where we might disagree exactly on this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153756	I actually come from an interview with Kristeligt Dagblad, who makes such a portrait, where one of the questions I got was what I believed in, and there I answered her that I believe in God and I believe in people. But I do agree that the declaration of human rights, the stateless Convention, etc. are not the stone tablets that Moses carried down from the mountain of Sinai in his day. These are things that have been written by people and, of course, there are also things that can be changed by people. On the other hand, it is of course difficult to reach agreement among so many contracting parties as they are, especially when it is under the auspices of the United Nations, and therefore it is good that most of the conventions are written in such relatively florous terms. The challenge with the stateless Convention is that it is very, very precisely formulated, i.e. it says 5 years, and 5 years of imprisonment is not the same in Denmark and in a number of other countries. There are other countries that punish harder than Denmark, there are also countries that punish milder, so why five years have just been written I do not know. Five years in 1961 you probably got for other crimes than you get today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153905	Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153908	It is just to stress that I think what I would call common sense would be appropriate in this whole debate on rights and conventions, because that is actually what it is about political common sense. Is it reasonable that people who have committed negligent manslaughter because they are stateless can obtain citizenship? No, actually, I don't think so. Moreover, it is a general observation that things have changed significantly since 1961, when it was, as it were, after the Second World War and the consequences it had and looked forward to today, because it is quite another Europe we are talking about, and that is why I think there might be reason to think rationally about whether we could not change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301153955	After all, manslaughter is now negligent because it is negligent. That's why it's called negligent manslaughter, that is, it's not on purpose. We must also remember that there are people who are stateless, so they cannot be expelled. We cannot deport people to Statelessistan, so there is, of course, a difference in relation to people who have a different nationality. We can expel them if they commit crime; we can expel them to the country from which they come. We do not have that option when we talk about stateless persons, and for that reason too, it is reasonable that there should be different rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154025	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154025-2	Thank you and thank the rapporteur of the Left for confirming that, of course, the Left believes that we should do everything possible to avoid stateless persons. But I would like to hear something from the rapporteur of the Left. For what I understand is that PET suspects a person that the person does not want Denmark well, and that is why it must be possible not to grant him citizenship. In Norway, as far as I understand, they have a practice which says that while they are under suspicion and until it becomes clear whether they should be charged and then sentenced, they can suspend the application for citizenship. So my one question is: could it be something that the Left might consider, that is to say that a similar practice was introduced in Denmark? And the second question I would like to ask the rapporteur is: does the rapporteur not see a problem in the fact that there is no possibility of trying whether PET is right now in its suspicions, and that could be too closed, so that even the suspect was not told?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154139-2	Some kind of secret trial? So, I have to say that I trust PET enough to comply with the assessments we receive from PET, and we do not question them when we talk about people seeking Danish citizenship who already have citizenship. We say 'no' to all of them. So I do not need a judge to come in, and I also think that it would be a bit of false security if the suspect did not know that it took place and did not have the opportunity to deal with the accusations and so on. So I see no reason to change the current system. That in Norway shows precisely that it is possible to enter and, if I may say so, interpret the Convention. But I cannot go into the details of what we are trying to do on the part of the government and the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154233	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154235	Now the alternative is also of the opinion that those whom we refuse to grant citizenship, that is to say citizenship, precisely because there is a suspicion from PET, should also be able to have it tested. It is possible to make a closed trial where you also have a defender for him, that is to say a very closed case, where, if we think so, he should not be informed that there is a case. Couldn't this be a road we could go down? Because precisely the stateless convention, which the Left supports as a starting point, is there to prevent people from becoming stateless. And they will be if we do not allow them to apply for citizenship in a matter which cannot be tried because PET suspects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154317	Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154318	After all, we will soon have the opportunity in committee to meet with PET and hear about the background to their assessments. I'm pretty sure it's not a joke that PET comes up with the settings they bring in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154335	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154342	When the Folketing joined the UN Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness some 40 years ago, it was due to the need to combat statelessness. The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted unanimously by the UN General Assembly in 1948, states that everyone has the right to a nationality. People without nationality, or citizenship, are faced with a number of obstacles in life. They do, for example. not the freedom of travel enjoyed by the rest of us, nor can they vote in parliamentary elections. When we joined the stateless Convention in Denmark, we did not commit ourselves to granting all stateless persons the nationality, but we undertook that, when certain conditions are met, we must grant Danish citizenship to stateless persons born in Denmark under relaxed conditions. And, as the rapporteur of the Left said a moment ago, it is a relatively clear convention, which is why it is of course also interesting what the Minister's dialogue with UNHCR is about. After all, today's debate is mainly about citizenship of stateless persons born in Denmark and suspected by the police intelligence service of potentially endangering the security of the state. Are they to be put on a bill on citizenship notification, or are they to be tampered with by the bill, as we have seen for other applicants for citizenship who are in the eye of PET? After all, we know from publicly available documents, and it has also been mentioned in the debate here today, that in the period from 2011 to October 2016, there have been three such cases. The people of Denmark are today obliged to give citizenship. The group of people we are talking about here has not been convicted of crimes against the security of the state, because if they were, they could be denied citizenship in full accordance with Article 1 of the Convention. When we talk about persons accused, accused or convicted in a court of law in a court of law which has not been finally decided by the Court of Appeal, we have no difficulty in interpreting the stateless Convention in the same way as they do in Norway. After all, we know from the Norwegian Government's instructions of October 2016 that in Norway citizenship proceedings are suspended if a person is under investigation for a crime against the security of the realm. In the course of the investigation, the person is charged or accused and, by its very nature, the person is aware of it, and probably also that the person is in prison. It would be good to follow Norwegian practice in such cases. But as long as the person is in PET's spotlight alone, the matter is different, because then there is no suspicion which is so strong that PET has judged that it can hold a trial. On this basis, we do not believe that we can exclude a person from becoming a national; so much the rule of law must be in Denmark. On the other hand, we would like to be involved in discussing whether a more legally sound PET procedure can be carried out, for example. by the fact that people who are in PET's spotlight have their case tried behind closed doors without their own information, just as we know it from other parts of the judicial system. One could also look at whether, also inspired by Norway and Sweden, one could justify and allow for complaint. Then we must remember that none of the people we are talking about here can be sent out of Denmark, because it is precisely stateless people who were born in Denmark. There's no place to send them. In other words, these people stay in Denmark, whether they get citizenship or not. Finally, I would like to say that it is also important to add that, with the procedure that is being used today in relation to those who are not stateless and who, in other words, some want to extend to others, we risk making the people who are in the spotlight of PET aware that that is exactly what they are. If the authorities write to them that they cannot obtain citizenship, even if they meet all the requirements, then you should not be very smart to figure out that it is enough because PET is watching them. So those were the words from me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154804	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154807	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Stine Brix whether the Enhedslisten can be concerned that the Folketing gives citizenship to people who are then later convicted, for example for terror, and where it then turns out that we can no longer take Danish citizenship away from them because they do not have dual citizenship. It will then have the consequence when they have got it that they can get a penalty, but they will still benefit from the full rights package in Denmark, despite being convicted of a violation of the terrorist clauses. It must be assumed that there is a certain probability that they may stay at some point if PET has considered that they may be a threat to the security of the realm. Well, wouldn't Enhedslisten think it would be an inappropriate situation to put ourselves in?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154858	If there is a sufficiently strong suspicion, I believe that PET will have to raise a charge and a case before a court of law. However, as long as there is no strong enough suspicion that can be held in court, we do not believe that there is a basis for not granting citizenship. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we are happy to discuss how to ensure better legal certainty in PET procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154926	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301154928	But it isn't the case that the secret services run around like that for fun, pointing their fingers at people and saying, "You're probably a threat to the security of the realm." There's a reason. It is because they have been watching a person and have received various information about a person. Then we have a very, very good procedure in which PET can brief the relevant parliamentary committee, and then you have the opportunity to take a person off the bill. Is the basic position of the Enhedslisten, even if we now disregard the stateless convention, that when the intelligence service warns against a person and points out that this person may be a threat to the security of the realm, then should citizenship always be granted to that person anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155013	For me, it is not a question of whether we trust PET. I think they are doing an excellent job and there is no doubt that it is important that we have a security service which can carry out assessments of whether there are people at risk of state security in order to prevent, but of course also to be able to clarify. We basically have a system in which it is not PET or the police for that matter, but a court that has to take the decision, and that is why we are not automatically following the attitude that PET is adopting on the basis of a suspicion which, moreover, we do not know the content of either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155050	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155051	In other words, as the system is designed in terms of citizenship, it is the case that this whole procedure first comes up with the creation of a law on citizenship dealing with exemption cases, and finally those people come to the law. Then you make it to the end that you ask PET if there are people on this list of people you are about to give citizenship that is considered to be a threat to the security of the realm. Then they send a letter over and say, if so, that there is such a person. My question is this: if it is the case that Enhedslisten receives such a letter, not only in relation to people who are stateless, but in general, will Enhedslisten vote yes or no for those people to have citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155152	Sir. Christian Langballe knows what we're gonna do about it. We are voting in favour of this, and we are doing so, because this is a mere suspicion which PET has not judged strong enough to try in a court of law. And, of course, we believe that it is basically the task of the courts to pass a judgment, not the task of PET. Similarly, we believe that it is quite a problem that we do not know the basis for PET's suspicions and that there is no possibility for it, it is a question of obtaining a statement of reasons or a complaint. It could also be that there had been an error, i.e. a simple confusion of names or other things, and therefore it is quite important that there is also legal certainty associated with the fact that one can be tampered with by a bill on the communication of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155242	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155243	Yes, but of course I ask because I do not really understand the point of view, and also because when we were discussing it at the time, in 2011 or when it was now, these three times, Enhedslisten's starting point was always that it had to be PET that was wrong with, and that therefore they had to be checked in every possible way to ensure that there was also a hold on the accusation. I think that is simply turning things upside down. I think it can be said that if PET warns against someone, it should be trusted and taken seriously the warning. I just can't believe that Enhedslisten doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155321	I think that's a misunderstanding from Mr. Christian Langballe's side. It is not a question of trust, it is a question of some fundamental principles of the rule of law that it is not up to the PET or the police to judge, but to the courts. And that is what we are talking about here if, without knowing the suspicion, without being tried by a court of law, we nevertheless draw the conclusion that a person cannot obtain citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155347	Thank you to Mrs Stine Brix. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155352	Thank you. I have a certain sympathy for Mrs Stine Brix when she says that she is having trouble getting on to a very high person, as I often come on after Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rune Lund, and I'm gonna have to turn the microphone down a lot. But enough about it. It is, of course, an important debate that the Danish People's Party has raised with this question, because it seems illogical that applicants for citizenship who are not illogical, but even worse than it is illogical, are also absurd. It is absolutely absurd to give citizenship to a person who is against the state in which that person would like to be a citizen. In fact, I think we should take that seriously. It is appropriate to reduce the prestige of politicians and parliament to do absurd and Monty Python-like things. So in LA, of course, we do not want people who may be a threat to the security of the state to be given Danish citizenship, and that is why we are of course pleased that Danish officials, as we have heard, are now in contact with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and that it looks as if there is momentum and progress in the matter. We'll see how it ends. I'm an optimist. However, I am certainly pleased that the debate has been raised so that we can clarify the matter and I am also pleased that we have arrived at a proposal for adoption which appears to be able to be adopted by a robust majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155557	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now I have the problem that I do not see any more rapporteurs present in the Chamber. It came very late, and if so, we have missed it. But then there will also be rapporteurs in the meantime, so it fits together so well. Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155625	Thank you, President. What I just want to ask is actually this relationship with the conventions. I have the fundamental principle that I believe that the Danish constitution must be the primary source of law, and that means that it must also be the Folketing and only the Folketing that decides whether people should have citizenship. I therefore have some problems, as the rapporteur well explained, with this stateless Convention, among others. that you should have committed a crime that gives you a sentence that crawls up to over five years in prison, which in Denmark is actually fairly serious crimes. It is not only negligent manslaughter, it is also a rape, and it is all sorts of other unpleasant. I just think that it must be possible, among rational people, to deal rationally with the political and management tools we use to discuss the conventions and whether it is appropriate for us to have a 1961 convention from which time has so obviously run out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155732	I noted in the rapporteur's speech that the stateless Convention dates back to the same day as the Berlin Wall was built, so perhaps it was just a bad day, that day in 1961. But there is, of course, both a political and a more fundamental discussion on the issue of conventions. Let me take the principle: they are of course created by people and they are created for a time. That is why, of course, it is not something to be considered as stone tablets that have been carried down from the mountain. I think we are very much in agreement with that. Then the question is how to deal with it politically, and there I just think that an entirely unprepared one-off is not a good strategy. So, there I think we must ally ourselves with some like-minded countries that want to do the same, and then try to change the convention in a more sensible direction. So I am convinced that in ten years' time, many conventions will look different, but I just think that the mechanics of changing them are to use alliances.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155836	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155837	I have just the simple and, I would say, rational and enlightened point of view, that if conventions, which are regarded as eternal in the system, are not equal to the general reality, then they are abolishing themselves; for everyone can see that it is absurd that there is a convention today which, among other things, has been adopted. grants citizenship to people who are suspected of being a threat to the security of the realm. So it is actually such a general view, because I believe that in Denmark and elsewhere in the West we can look at things rationally and discuss things rationally and let ourselves be guided by our senses.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155922	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155923	But I don't hear that Mr. Christian Langballe and I intellectually disagree. Perhaps there is rather a discussion about the political way forward, and I would very, very much like to discuss that. The time and the place may not be right, but intellectually, I think we're close to agreeing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155944	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301155949	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has called for this debate on the UN Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. It is part of a long-standing debate on the stateless Convention, which the Danish People's Party really wants to withdraw from, as I understand it. This means that the Danish People's Party as such wants young people born stateless in this country not to continue to be protected by the Convention if they are in the spotlight of PET. It is very clear from the Convention that States are obliged to grant citizenship to people born in their own country who would otherwise be stateless. The only exception is if the person concerned has been found guilty of a crime against the security of the State or has been sentenced to five years' imprisonment or more. In other words, suspicion is not enough to refuse to grant citizenship to a person. In Denmark we live in a society of law, and an important foundation of every rule of law is that every person is innocent until proven guilty. It is also in human rights. That is why the alternative is that we cannot refuse to grant citizenship to some people on the basis of suspicion by PET until, as I have said, a final decision has been taken. It is the case, as has also been mentioned here in the Chair today, that we are already pillaging people of the bill for citizenship if there is a suspicion on the part of PET. So this is a practice that we are generally very critical of. If you look at Norway, you can see that Norway has introduced an instruction on the interpretation of the citizenship law, which means that you can suspend an application if the stateless person is under investigation for the type of offences which, according to the Convention, can exclude citizenship. It is a practice which the Alternative thinks should be studied in terms of how it works, because it could possibly be something one could join here in Denmark. Another practice, which I think could be far more tolerable in a community governed by the law, is in fact that the person who is suspected might have the opportunity to try his case at closed doors, possibly so that the suspect is not brought to the attention of the suspect himself, but that he is represented by a defender behind closed doors. It is, of course, because I think it is important that we in Denmark work to limit statelessness to the greatest possible extent, and that those who may be denied citizenship and thus become stateless in the situation we are discussing here have been given a decision. When we stand in this Chamber debating the stateless Convention, I also think it gives reason to remember what the Convention is really for and who it protects. The Stateless Convention was born out of a consensus on the importance of a fundamental human right, namely the right to nationality. Denmark was fully in line with this, and we amended the Danish law on citizenship in order to meet the Convention's requirements for limiting statelessness. The change took place in 1968. When it was debated, Denmark did not actually want to ratify the Convention immediately. We did not do so at the time, because the Convention permits precisely the disqualification of citizenship resulting from statelessness in the event of serious failure of loyalty. We thought that it was against the Nordic sense of justice to be able to deny a person citizenship, because we had the basic view that the saddest of all was to be stateless, that it was a very unhappy interference in a person's general legal position to deny it its citizenship. That is also why, at the time, we did not choose to deprive a former German county count of his Danish nationality, although he was punished for having collaborated with the German occupying power for a disqualification of citizenship would mean that he became stateless. Today, the stateless Convention is still sadly relevant. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees estimates that today there are approx. Ten million people worldwide who are denied the fundamental human rights right to nationality. They are people who are homeless, outlaws and stateless persons; they are people who have limited access to basic rights, rights that many people take for granted. That is why the Convention is far from obsolete, on the contrary, and unfortunately. I hope that one day we will be able to make the stateless Convention superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301160504	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301160513	Well, I don't share the Hallelujah-humanism of the alternative, I just don't, and I don't think it has any time on Earth in the real world. What I find strange is, first of all, why really question PET, which works, among other things. with causes and risks of terror and all sorts of other things? Why doubt that they have a right to suspect? Why set up such an artificial legal apparatus? I think it is okay for cases to be suspended and wait until they are settled. And one last thing: people who have grown up in this country and who do not speak Danish and do not know anything about Denmark and live in a parallel society and are stateless receive citizenship, as opposed to others in the same situation, simply because they are stateless. I think that is simply ridiculous. I also think it is foolish that they can commit crimes that give up to five years in prison. I simply do not think that we can bid the Danes, that we have a convention that is simply contrary to the general sense of law and the general sense of law and to live in a society of law in which Denmark must be protected and where it is ensured that the people who are granted citizenship can actually speak the Danish language and know something about Denmark. I think we owe it to the Danes, I think we owe it to Denmark to have this nation over a thousand years old, so that we actually look after it instead of giving citizenship to people who do not even speak the Danish language.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301160654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301160659	I am simply so infinitely pleased that Denmark is a democracy and that we are a community of law. I'm really, really high on that. And I think it is really important that Denmark is working for the UNHCR's ambition that by 2024 there should no longer be any people in this world that does not belong to any nation. Being stateless is something we must combat, and that is why I think it is perfectly justified to give citizenship, unless there has been a judgment. With regard to PET, I would like to say that I consider it very important, i.e. the work done by PET, among other things. for me as a parliamentarian. I know they're looking out for all of us. I also pay great attention to the work of the police. But neither the PET nor the police are the judicial authorities, and this is a court decision in this country because we are a community of law that decides whether people are guilty or innocent. It has nothing to do with "nothing at all" to question PET's work or the police's work. A court decision is what judges people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301160819	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301160822	But those who give citizenship are, according to the Constitution, the Folketing and the Folketing alone. And if PET warns against the fact that a potential terrorist, or whatever it is, is capable of acquiring citizenship, then I believe that we should actually follow that warning. And why do you have to do that? This is because citizenship should not be granted to people who are suspected of endangering the security of the empire. We simply owe it to the Danes, that is to say, not to throw citizenship into this way. And that's what happened. And the only thing that comes out of it is that trust in the Folketing and confidence in the state power will be in free fall because people think: they can't find out in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301160909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301160912	In other words, today they are being tampered with by the draft law. I think the rapporteur is mixing things up a little now. What we are discussing here today is the stateless convention, and there are very, very few cases. But I still think that although PET has a suspicion, I cannot understand why we cannot create a system where it is tested for closed doors. We know that when we investigate cases, it's not always the case that leads to judgment. In fact, it may well be that someone is being investigated who is innocent, and that is why I think that in a community governed by law we should make a closed case in which we investigate, and in a court of law, and it should be a closed court, then whether or not he is guilty of this suspicion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161006	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161016	In 1977, Denmark acceded to the 1961 United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. This means that Denmark has undertaken to combat statelessness, and therefore special rules apply in relation to the granting of citizenship to persons born stateless in Denmark, namely that they do not have to fulfil the general conditions for acquiring Danish citizenship. However, there are a few rules that they must comply with, among other things. they must not have been convicted of serious crime. As one or two of the other rapporteurs have mentioned in their rapporteur's speeches, Norway has reportedly interpreted the Convention in such a way that if a person born stateless in Denmark is either charged or charged, the matter is suspended until it is settled. It is a model if you can call it what we in the Radical Left could well see ourselves working towards. On the whole, however, our position is that Denmark must and must continue to comply with international conventions, and we do not want Denmark to take the initiative to have conventions amended, and certainly not that Denmark should withdraw from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161139	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161145	This is, in fact, a common, fundamental issue: why can't conventions be changed? What is it that is doing in relation to the conventions that they cannot be changed? I do not understand it, and I hope that the Radicals, who after all take a stand for prayer before the conventions in good time and prematurely, can give me an explanation of why they cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161211	When these conventions were adopted, they weren't the kind of ones that fell from the sky. It was after long, long negotiations that a great many countries agreed on these conventions and to commit themselves to following them. It is quite unique that almost a whole world can stand together on these agreements, on some very basic legal principles, some very fundamental considerations that must be taken into account. I see no reason to start tampering with this, because with all due respect I think that there are countries if we started to open up to discuss these conventions, which would have some view of what we should do, and come up with some proposals on how the conventions should be organised in the future, which would lie far away from even the way in which the Danish People's Party perceives the rule of law, and therefore I do not think we should start tampering with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161322	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161325	That's not information. It's pure eclipse, and I really think so. I think it is an eclipse to say that a political agreement document cannot be changed. It won't in 50 years, and it won't in 100 years. If that argument is true, it can never be changed. I have a relationship with politics that this is actually something that is moving because reality is moving and that we then have to take a position on the reality that is now, and I have the feeling that the reason why the Radical Left is so many and so much wrong is that, because of some conventions and human rights, we are not going to take a stand at all on reality. I think it's crazy. You have a penalty that goes up to five years where you may have committed crimes, and then I don't understand that. Moreover, there are already rights granted by citizenship in the old days, namely to public services. You can only receive public services, and far too many people do, including those who come, but that does not shake the fact that today you do not die of starvation because you do not have citizenship, because you are in Denmark. It is simply beyond my comprehension that those people should simply automatically be granted citizenship because of an old convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161455	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161457	I think that the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, said very well: it is extremely unfortunate not to belong anywhere, just to be freely floating in the world and not to have anywhere to say that this is where I belong. It is not, of course, because I will in any way stand to defend any stateless person who does crime, neither anything that gives a sentence over five years nor less than five years. I will by no means defend them. That's not what I do at all. However, legal certainty also applies to those people, and that is why we have said yes to those conventions at the time. That is because even the people we do not like also have legal certainty, and that is one of them. guaranteed in this particular convention for stateless persons.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161547	Then we thank Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen. Since I do not see other rapporteurs, we have actually reached the Minister and therefore I am ready to give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161601	I would like to thank you for the debate here today. I think in many ways that this has been an excellent debate, in which I think we have first of all been stressed how important a matter this is. Because there should be no doubt whatsoever that this is a matter which the government takes very seriously. I would like to stress once again that the government does not want stateless persons who PET considers to be a threat to the security of the empire to be granted Danish citizenship, and I also think that the debate here today has made it quite clear that it is certainly not a position that we stand by alone. The government will therefore continue to work to ensure that precisely these people are not granted citizenship. As I have said both today and on other occasions, we in the government have for some time considered both how best to deal with these challenges with the stateless Convention and, of course, we have addressed it, and that is also why I am very pleased to be able to say today that we are in a positive dialogue with the UNHCR on the challenges that we face when it comes to the stateless Convention. I therefore think it is good to be able to say today that the UNHCR has also expressed an understanding of the issues we are facing. Because it is absolutely crucial that we tackle the challenge of the stateless Convention in the best possible way, and I therefore think it is important that we stick to the path we have already set and which we have started to follow. In conclusion, of course, I will repeat what I said earlier in my speech and which is also in the text of the adoption, namely that I will of course keep the Committee on the Rights of the Parliament informed when there is something substantially new in this matter. So thank you again for the debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161821	Thank you, Minister. The question was raised, and the first is from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161827	Minister, I just need to know if it stands to believe that the government is committed to finding a solution to this problem, because then I am satisfied. I just need confirmation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161848	That is clearly our ambition. I simply believe that Mr. Christian Langballe and I fully share the view that it cannot be reasonable for us to grant citizenship to people who may be a threat to the security of the empire. Well, it's a reward to get citizenship, and it shouldn't be given to this type of person.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161914	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301161916	I can just express my wish and hope that there will be a solution before the sun burns out. And I expect it to come. We trust that, of course, because otherwise we would not be included in this proposal for adoption either. We are absolutely sure that there will be a solution. That's the way it is. I need to hear about one thing. So I also think it is a source of some indignation in me that people who commit crimes with a penalty of up to five years are also given citizenship. In fact, I do not think that is fair and I would like to hear whether the Minister has a comment on it or whether it is felt that the current position has moved as far as it can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162003	It is only to the end that one can obtain citizenship, even if one has committed some form of crime: it is indeed the case that the periods of carnage are exceptionally long. But that part here may belong to another place, namely when we discuss citizenship more generally. So says Mr. Christian Langballe, that he hopes there will be a solution before the sun burns out. I would like to sharpen it up a little and say that I hope there will be a solution in good time before the sun burns out, as I know it will take a very long time before that happens, and I do not intend to leave it so long before we find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162042	We're out in the long run. But now it is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162047	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe said it right now, and he also said earlier that he heard the Minister's first speech, as that the government has undertaken to find a solution; and that was the same wording as Mr Langballe. Christian Langballe used here now. However, the proposal for adoption made by the governing parties together with the Danish People's Party states that the government has undertaken to work for Usually there are two different things, i.e. whether one has undertaken to find a solution or whether one has undertaken to work for a solution. So I would like to ask the Minister: how does the Minister read this proposal for adoption? Well, what is the government's commitment to? If we are in the context of the European Committee of Inquiry, that means working for something, at least not guaranteeing that we will get through with it. So what is it, according to the Minister, that the government has actually committed itself to: finding a solution or doing what you can and then seeing where it takes you?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162143	So, if you hear Mrs Stine Brix asking questions today and, of course, also the speech made earlier by Mrs Stine Brix, then it is clear that we are quite simply in complete disagreement on this issue. I can only say that the government wants to find a solution in this area, and we do so because we believe it is absolutely essential that citizenship should not be granted precisely if you can be a threat to the security of the empire or if PET considers that you can be a threat to the security of the empire. And that's why it's what the government is working for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162220	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162222	What I can hear the Minister say is that you want it and that you want to work for it, but you cannot guarantee that you will actually find a solution. And it's something other than what I hear, Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe says that he has a view that the government has promised that that solution will be found. Then I understand that the Minister and I, i.e. the Enhedslisten, are in complete disagreement. I just ask quite simply: what is the Minister and the government committed to, according to the Minister? Is it to find a solution, to provide that solution, or is it to do what you can and then to see where it takes you?
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162300	First of all, the government will do what the government can to find a solution, and we intend to do so. We intend to find a solution to this, because it cannot be reasonable to have citizenship if, according to PET's assessment, you can be a threat to the security of the empire. It's that simple for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162320	No one else has wanted to speak, so we can thank the Minister. That concludes the debate. I would point out that the vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday 13 March 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162340	The debate is open. The first one I give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162402	Thank you very much for that, President. The proposal here is a very technical proposal, at least from the Socialist side. It is about NemID, which is widespread to most of the population and to virtually all companies. And digital mail, self-service solutions, etc. works via NemID. After all, it plays a far greater role than in 2008, when a contract was signed on who should manage NemID. This is why the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament has recommended a legal framework for how NemID should be managed in order to strengthen and ensure the legal certainty of citizens and companies. It is about such things as issuing, possibly blocking and of course also reopening NemID. It is absolutely essential that there is a review body. That is why the proposal calls for the Digitalisation Board to become a review body. From our point of view, it makes sense for us to listen to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Ombudsman and to have NemID enshrined in the law so that, in principle, we strengthen the legal certainty of citizens and companies everywhere. That is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162539	Thank you, sir. Magnus Heunicke. Then we move on to Mr. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162547	I do not want to start recounting everything, that is to say what the previous rapporteur has just said. After all, we are positive about what is there, but we have such little concern as to why Nets should have the task of NemID exactly. That is why, in the ongoing work of the committee, we are going to ask a few questions as to why only one company has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162615	Thank you. Then it was originally the Left who was supposed to speak now, but I have received a report that Mr. Henrik Dahl speaks, also on behalf of the Left. That is why I now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, LA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162630	Thank you for that, President. I do not know whether I am actually speaking on behalf of the Left, but I should certainly welcome the Left and say that, of course, the Left supports the proposal. In connection with this transfer business from the Left, Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen was kind enough to give me her rapporteur's speech, and there is something so good in it that I would like to quote it. It says that it is rare for us to adopt a law that does not change anything. That is what we are doing today, because this law does not intend to change the way NemID is being issued and administered today. So the situation is a little similar to marriage to a person you live with and have lived with for a long time and have a household with. Nothing has changed but the legal status. It is really fine and unbureaucratic to adopt a law that does not change anything, so in addition to the Left backing it up, the Liberal Alliance naturally supports it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162736	Thank you. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162743	Thank you for that, President. I'm stand-in today for mr. Torsten Gejl on L 150. The alternative can support the proposal. We think it is positive that we are adapting the increased digitisation of society and making legislation that matches. Whether that changes anything or not, it is important that legal certainty and the rules are clear in this area. So we back up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162810	Thank you. And we are jumping a little in the rapporteur's line, because now I think it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen who has been put on the floor for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162824	Thank you. I wonder whether I will almost be the last or, at least, the penultimate rapporteur, so I shall be brief. We support the L 150 in order to respond to the growing need to have a clear legal framework for the obligations and rights of citizens and companies in relation to NemID and to strengthen legal certainty in this area and to provide clear redress for companies and citizens who are denied access to NemID. Although the Ministry of Finance has stated in the consultation note that it is only possible to use proxy solutions in relation to vulnerable and weakened citizens, we will use the committee procedure to ask whether, after all, it is not possible to extend the possibility of proxy solutions for vulnerable citizens and their relatives. But I would also like to welcome the Radicals and say that they support the proposal in the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162913	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301162921	Thank you. I shall also be relatively brief. After all, this bill has come into being because there has been a note from the Ombudsman, who thought that there were some unclear rules in this area, and I think it is very good that a clear legal framework should now be created in relation to issuing NemID. The legislation here is then intended to work until it is replaced by MitID in 2021, and I think that is also very sensible, so that when the new ID is to start, a new legislation can be put in place that is appropriate to the needs of that time. So I think that is very sensible and we can, of course, back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301163003	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. Then Mrs Eva Flyvholm has actually arrived, and that is why Mrs Eva Flyvholm is now being given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301163016	Thank you so much. It just went a little stronger than I expected. From Enhedslisten's side, we also think it is good that there is some legislative regulation in place in relation to this area. But I would say that I really think it would be even better if this were to be subject to the public sector, that is to say that it was actually the state itself that is responsible for our completely vital infrastructure, and it was not a private company like Nets that was supposed to be responsible for our NemID. However, it has to be said that legislative regulation is a step in the right direction towards more control of our infrastructure, so I think that is sensible. As something that we might be able to take into account in the legal proceedings, I would like us to see whether we could also look at the emphasis here on the possibility of personal contact if citizens need to contact the company about things that have to do with NemID. In other words, it is a good thing that the right of appeal is being tightened up, but also if you need advice or other forms of dialogue. At least I know, as the situation is now for companies, that typically when you try to contact Nets, there may also be the problem that you have to pay 250 DKK each time. in order to correct something that may have been their fault in the first place. So there may be something we could look at here, i.e. whether we cannot actually increase public confidence in the public sector and what should be said to do better for companies to use it here by writing in that there should be a good opportunity for personal contact, or at least look at how we ensure it. Finally, there may also be some questions about how to provide good guidance to the institutions and legal aid and bisides and others who may be required to act on behalf of or with citizens who need to use their NemID. I have a few questions on this, and we will also ask them during the legislative process. But overall, we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301163244	Thank you. Then we have reached the Minister for Public Innovation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301163253	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the rapporteurs for what has to be called short, precise speeches, which were almost so brief and precise that it was difficult for some of the rapporteurs to arrive in time. But it is not so bad that it is not good for anything, namely that as a minister I can see that there is at least support for the bill all around from the parties of the Folketing, and I would, of course, like to sign for that. After all, the legislative proposal is about ensuring a clear legal framework for citizens and employees, among others. companies and public authorities in relation to NemID. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the question of redress, which was also raised in several of the rapporteurs' speeches. Today NemID is widespread to most of the population and virtually all companies in Danish society, and it is assumed in many ways that citizens and employees use NemID, for example. when reading your digital mail or using different public self-service solutions. Therefore, it is of course also important that you as a citizen or employee can be sure what rules apply when it is that you have to have NemID and that you have the opportunity to complain about a decision on issuing or blocking NemID. The Act establishes the appointment of a private company to issue and manage NemID and lays down rules for the issue, blocking and handling of NemID. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party asked why this only applies to Nets. One can say that the contract with Nets has just been extended until NemID is replaced by the future MitID, expected in 2021, and then the intention is that the law be repealed as it only deals with the current NemID. The intention is for us to carry out further analyses of the need for a more broad regulation in the future national eID and other public digital infrastructure solutions that can replace this law when it is that the contract with Nets regarding NemID expires, but we are now putting forward the bill, and that is worded narrowly, it can be said, for NemID and for the existing issuer of NemID, namely Nets. The law also states that a citizen or employee can in future complain to the Digitalisation Board about a decision refusing NemID or blocking NemID. The law does not intend to change the practice of NemID to citizens and employees today, and therefore citizens and employees will not experience new or different requirements from those already in force. I am, of course, ready to answer any questions that may be raised here during the further reading of the committee, but at least for the moment I am grateful for the constructive and positive reception given by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301163557	That then meant that there are no brief remarks. Then it is good for the people's regime to round off with complete agreement on a bill. So no one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180301163618	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 2 March 2018, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
