ParlaMint-DK_20180410130016	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410130026	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410130032	Thank you very much. I believe that Denmark has one of the world's best welfare societies, a modern public sector that puts man first and where people are behind it, all the skilled workers who have created this welfare society. I have a great deal of respect for all the teachers in our kindergartens, the teachers in our schools, the sosu assistants in our nursing home, and I am not alone in having that respect. When the Danes are asked, the vast majority answer that they are well satisfied with the service they receive. Many workers in the field of nuclear welfare are remembered with warmth by those they have helped along the way. I think we feel the same way, we who are sitting in this Chamber today. We each have memories of the teacher who gave the extra push to break the code, so we learned to read, or of the midwife who redeemed our first child, or of the nurse who cared lovingly and professionally for our parents when they were dying. At least these are memories that I carry around with me. I therefore fully recognise the work, the great work done by the employees of the state, regions and municipalities every day. If they don't do their job, we're all in trouble. That is, of course, where I want to go: public contracts. We are in what I think is an historic situation. At any rate, I cannot recall that earlier warnings of strike and lockout have been issued at once, both in municipalities, regions and states. After all, the mediator has now postponed the conflict and negotiations are under way, and that is what I want, and it is also my hope that the parties will agree that an agreement can be reached without us going into a conflict first. But if it were to go so far as to give notice of strike and lockout, it would logically mean that no pay should be paid to the employees affected while it is on. This leads to an immediate reduction in expenditure in the public sector. I don't believe in cash, because a lot of the money would have to be used to make up for the lost. After all, there is nothing spared by a patient having his knee surgery cancelled because of the conflict, or by a citizen being given a later response to a complaint. But, of course, there are also things that cannot be changed. I mean, the train that's canceled and never got out of the car isn't going to drive. The municipalities are responsible for the major welfare areas, the regions have most of the health sector, and in this way the municipalities and regions together account for something similar to three quarters of the public sector. Of course, the greatest immediate savings from a possible conflict will lie here and how the municipalities and regions deal with it, they will of course decide for themselves. However, as far as the state is concerned, I would like to say very clearly that we do not want to save money if it comes to a labour dispute. We have a salary per person. payday on something that looks like a quarter of a billion, and many of that money would have to be spent on catching up with neglected things, but there will also be a net gain. If the conflict becomes a reality, we will flesh out the net savings of the state in 2018 and put the amount into a pool that creates welfare for the money. For the state should not profit from a labour dispute • of course not. I say this in order that there should be no myths and misunderstandings, and because I would also like to express the view that we would basically prefer to spend the money on the tasks for which the money is allocated. The best way to ensure that is, of course, that a solution is found so that there is no conflict. We do not want a conflict, I would like to make that clear. No one is served by a violent conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410130447	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to the questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. It is first Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410130508	I think there are many of us who hope that the parties in the field of public contract will find each other and, of course, there is a special responsibility on the part of the government in this respect too. I think it is very obvious that welfare should not be spared as a consequence of a possible and potential labour conflict. I wonder if that, when the government needs to say it today, is because the government has considered other things. When we need to make it clear that the money which, in the case of a lockout, is not being spent in the state field is going to be used subsequently for welfare, is it because the government has in fact considered something else, such as tax cuts? The Prime Minister can answer that question. Well, what I really want to ask and spend my time on today is to return to what we discussed last time we had the opportunity to have a question time here in Parliament, namely the landlords. The Prime Minister and I had an exchange of views at the time about the consequences of the very large savings the government is making in the Landsbygningsfonden, where the government is proposing to finance an otherwise, I think, very good proposal about parallel societies alone with money from the Landsbygningsfonden. The Prime Minister was very confident that it would not be able to bring about the rent increases that I am concerned about that could result. The Prime Minister was also very convinced that it would not have any impact on renovations and other activities. I am very concerned that we have a strong general housing sector and I am very concerned that the tenants in Denmark have proper conditions. I noted that the director of BL said very clearly that, unfortunately, the Prime Minister is not right when he says that funding will not mean higher rents. When I look at the numbers, I can't achieve anything else than that it's going to knock out higher rents. Is it the director of the general housing companies who is right, or does the Prime Minister still think what the Prime Minister meant a few weeks ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410130721	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410130722	Thank you. First of all, when I make this clear, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen calls it a matter of course, it is because I feel a need for it. I would like to draw out two things. First of all, I can find different places on social media, etc. observe that some are trying to create the myth, that the government wants a conflict, that there are huge savings in a conflict, and then we could save them to pile up and there are also all sorts of exciting thoughts about what we might then spend the money on. I would like to strike down that, because we have never had any ambition to save as much as a bent penny on any conflict, because we do not want it. That's one. The second is that I too, like others, have to start to prepare for a deadline and that the conflict which apparently no one wants can therefore possibly become a reality. I do not want that, but it can become a reality. I mean, that's a serious thing. It's got to go to everyone's house. I think that is also the first prerequisite for finding a result. So that is why I am saying this today. As far as the second matter is concerned, we discussed it during the last Question Time, and I have no reason to take positions other than those I did there. However, I would like to say on this whole subject that, fortunately, negotiations have now begun on the basis of the government's proposals, and I acknowledge the positiveness with which the Social Democratic Party has also entered into this. I do not think that it is further advanced in order to get the negotiations that we are holding here in the Parliamentary Chamber in a good and proper way. Like Mrs Mette Frederiksen, I am very much in favour of having a strong general housing sector. This includes, in addition to other things, dealing with the particularly heavy problems that exist in certain parts of that sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410130938	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410130940	[Sound emission]... we can have the discussion in both places. That is right; we are sitting in the negotiating room, and it is the right place to find the solutions and thus also to find funding other than that proposed by the government. However, the principle can easily be discussed here in the Parliamentary Assembly. For I am driven by a very strong desire that the country's tenants have some good apartments to live in, that the rent is not just allowed to rise out there, that it is renovated when fall trunks, balconies, kitchens and bathrooms need it. And I can see, with what the government has put on the table, that so much money is taken from the Landsbygningsfonden (Landsbygningsfonden) it is very, very high, a very large amount of billions to finance something that has nothing to do with the tenants at all. That is, of course, what is most worrying, I think, so that we have a social task in ensuring that more children go to day care centres. Yes, why do renters in the country have to pay an expense that should be imposed on all of us? And when the Prime Minister then stands up in Parliament and says that this is not going to mean any rent increases, and the director of the general housing companies says that yes, it does, then we will have to have the discussion again. And that is why the question is actually quite specific: can the Prime Minister promise that the country's tenants will not get an increase in rent as a result of the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131100	Here you go. One minute to the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131101	But I do not agree with the picture drawn that it is the land's tenants who have to pay for a number of things that are not the land's tenants. Well, the situation is that the rent is linked up to the fixed amount. And if we look at the entire general housing sector as a whole, we are faced with a period in which loans are being repaid. And as the loans are repaid, there is thus room for the state to reduce its grant and the state's money is not the tenant's money, the state's money is all our money, whether we are co-habitants or tenants or owners, without it falling into increased rent increases. That is the reason for the government's action. That's how it's supposed to be. And then there are debates where we can get down to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131209	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131210	I think we need to make it clear that the principle that applies today in Denmark is that when new general housing is built, everyone contributes through their tax payments to making it possible. The government wants to change this so that in the future only the tenants of the country will also have to finance new buildings. And it is in a situation where there are quite a lot of tenants who need to have their homes renovated. It is not the case, if the trap trunk leaks, that you can wait in a general housing company to renovate the trap trunk. At least it makes it almost impossible to live in the apartment so that at some point there is enough money in the Landsbygningsfonden for it to be possible. Then you will try to find other ways, and in that way you can be forced to set up the rent. That is why I am seeking the principle here, and that is why I am raising this question with the Prime Minister again, because if we want a strong general housing sector in Denmark, we will have to make sure that the homes are renovated. If we do not want a capital that develops, as we see in the rest of Europe, so that ordinary people cannot afford to live there, then we will have to keep the rent down. And with what the government has put on the table, our ability to ensure that the rent is kept down and that renovations are performed is significantly worse than, of course, doing what should be the right thing, namely finding another funding for the tasks to be solved and which we still want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131334	Thank you. And the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131336	However, we will be very interested to hear the alternative funding proposal from the Social Democratic Party. They did not come right here in the Chamber today, but then they could come at the meeting table. What is crucial for us is that we now get something done about the ghetto formation that we have seen grow in Denmark in pure parallel societies that are doing something about our cohesion, and if we do not, because the clock is ticking, get it solved, then we will have housing areas that remind us of what we see in other European cities. Let me mention Paris. We have to do something about that. We have responsibly presented a financing model for this, which we believe creates room for the rest of the sector to be part of the general housing sector for those ghetto areas too, and for some benefits to be made, given that loans are paid out which ensure that the rent is not increased. That is our starting point, we have presented it, and it is the subject of debate. I think it will apply in this debate, as in all sorts of others based on a minority government, that the government will not get through with what we are proposing, so we will of course be responsive, and to that it will be very, very exciting to hear the concrete proposals of the Social Democratic Party on how to find funding, not alternatively but in other words additional.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131458	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131505	Thank you for that, President, and thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. I must now say that we have never had the government suspected of wanting a conflict. We are absolutely convinced that we want a negotiated solution to avoid a conflict in the public labour market. And our prayer today, as it has been in the past, is that, of course, we should do our utmost to find the compromise needed to achieve a negotiated solution and that we should listen to each other in the negotiations with the absolute wish that we should find the compromise at the negotiating table so that we do not get there, that we should throw the country into a major conflict and when the situation that the Prime Minister then reports about here is that we have so-called savings, as can then be discussed, for what to do. Then there can be a debate about how quickly they can ensure that baths are not only offered to the old people on Bornholm every 14 days, but that we can have better welfare, etc., but that is a situation we would rather not have to go into. Well, I guess that's what I'm saying. What I saw, moreover, had decided that I would spend the Question Time on is a call that the Prime Minister made at the last Question Time, namely that he was asking for more EU debate, and I am crazy about EU debates, so I am happy to take the challenge. There have been elections in Hungary on Sunday, and Viktor Orbán's party has had one, one might say, crushing victory. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with me that this victory appears to have come in the light of a desire for a different balance between what the EU is interfering in and what the nation states are allowed to take care of themselves on issues such as immigration and border controls. Because I believe that in reality these are some of the things that have been reacted to in Hungary, as we do in a number of other countries, that is to say that we simply want to have greater self-determination when it comes to who comes into your country, that is to say the nation state, and this question of whether you have the right to secure it, among other things. by also controlling its borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131714	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131715	Thank you. If I could just briefly sign up to the opening remarks that I share, including emphasising that everyone must do their utmost to find a compromise. As I said to Mrs Mette Frederiksen before, in a debate which then concerns ourselves in here, it is rare for everyone to get their quite a hundred percent, and that is an excellent star. So all parties should of course take responsibility for not throwing Denmark into this conflict. I think we're looking at that the same way. As far as the Hungarian election is concerned, I have to say that I do not feel very well dressed, nor do I think it would be very appropriate if I were to analyse an election in an EU Member State. I note the results of the Hungarian elections. I haven't followed the election campaign any closer. I believe that there have been a great many elements at stake and, alongside those that concern us from the outside, what will become of the rule of law and democracy? What kind of conditions do the press have? Do you have any thoughts about taxing NGOs that pursue a case that you do not support yourself? In addition to all these issues, there have probably been others dealing with economic progress and unemployment which has almost disappeared and so on. But, of course, I would think that in Hungary, as in other countries, this debate on a balance between the nation state and the European Community is probably also a topic that fills something.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131846	Thank you. I hope we get some rest if it's a new ringtone, I recommend that you change it. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410131852	Thank you for your answer. I really think that the answer is precisely an opportunity to stress the importance of the fact that we will then have a more EU debate when the Prime Minister is not better dressed to analyse why the Hungarian election has fallen out as it is. I've only followed it from a distance. I haven't been in the country myself, but I've tried to keep up with what's been described. And if you take into account some of what is being described from Hungary, then there is a fairly clear amount that says that the Hungarians have wanted to be masters of their own house and have the right to border controls and to determine migration to the country. There has also been talk of the desire to maintain Christian culture in the country and so on. against what one regards as an outsider such multiculturalism and the like. In other words, there are some sizes here, which have in fact been repeated in discussions in other countries of the European Union, particularly in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which have been given their freedom after the collapse of the Soviet Union, and which have then become members of the European Union, and that has been very good but which, of course, also has a limit on how much they will then allow themselves to be controlled from the outside. Now they have found a freedom, they think, to secure their country. That's what I want to ask the Prime Minister. For the German Minister for the Interior, Horst Seehofer, has of course been out to congratulate the elections in Hungary and, in fact, also signed up to saying that the European Union must now refrain from making any arrogance towards Hungary, etc. And I would like to know whether the Prime Minister will agree with the statement made by the German Minister for the Interior in relation to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132026	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132029	Well, I have no ambition to be arrogant to other countries or other government leaders. And it also actually belongs to me that I do not know very much about their own inner relationships. In other words, there are many things that can be said about the Hungarian elections now I have noticed that the OSCE has been out expressing criticism of certain parts of the Hungarian election campaign, media coverage and other things. So I think we need to be much closer to analysing the outcome of an election in another country. Moreover, a country with its own history as part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, which has been decimated on several occasions, both after the end of World War I and World War II, etc. Well, there are many aspects to it. The balance I think there should be between the nation states and Europe is, of course, the balance that I myself express and stand for, and that is also what I shall be going to vote for in due course. And then I would like to hope that it will be sufficient for us to be able to regain our mandate. Then you can do all sorts of analyses of whether currents in other countries will make it possible for there to be a different outcome at home or something like that. But it's gonna be a little weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132136	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132138	But it's not just a web of thought, is it? This is probably something that is reasonably characteristic of the discussions in the other countries. I mean, the Prime Minister is definitely following them even better than I am, and he has some talented people around who can advise the government about what is going on. After all, the Prime Minister had the pleasure and pleasure of having the visit of the British Prime Minister yesterday in the light of the discussions surrounding, among others, the situation. Brexit, where no one is in doubt either, I think we have a fairly good knowledge of the British debate together; I think we have followed it closely together; that there was also a great discussion about the free movement of workers and this about whether the British could decide for themselves who came into their country. It was at the heart of the then Prime Minister Cameron's negotiations with the European Union whether he could get any guarantees that, if things went too far, they could also say stop. That was not enough. It was a focal point in the whole debate about Brexit that one would now be master of one's own house in relation to who was allowed to enter one's country. So can the Prime Minister not only recognise that this debate is there in very many countries; it is also in many Eastern and Central European countries in particular and that it is also about the balance between the European Union on the one hand and what the nation states are allowed to do on the other? This may not be quite the balance that the Prime Minister chose at the end, but it may nevertheless be something the Prime Minister can show understanding for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132259	Thank you. I fully recognise that there is such a debate and that it exists everywhere, and the discussion takes place on each country's own terms and is also concluded differently, because the elections are different in different countries. As far as Britain is concerned, let me just say for the sake of history that the then Prime Minister Cameron got what he wanted, in the form of an agreement in the EU-28, which I also saw contributed to, which created a platform that could be put up if the British saw what was also his recommendation, decided to stay in Britain. Fortunately, it didn't work out or it didn't work out, but I'm afraid it didn't work out. Unfortunately, this did not happen, as neither he nor I hoped, which has also thrown Britain into a very difficult situation, which I was last reconfirmed yesterday. Because there is a reason why we have invented the internal market in the way we have invented it, and pulling out of it comes with a price in terms of bureaucracy and in terms of lost prosperity, and I do not want that. That is why I would also like to insist that the right balance is something we can look at differently, and that is why we have a political debate. This is a balance in which we are, of course, on guarding the self-determination of the nation states, because I do not want such a federalist Europe, but where, on the other hand, we are also fighting some things together, among other things. the protection of the external borders. For now, just to give Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl I would like to say that I have no doubt at all that Orbán's political position back in 2015 has had an impact on Europe as such moving into that debate, and that is something I welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132445	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132454	Thank you. I would also like to start by congratulating the Prime Minister on the announcement that we were able to read in the morning press and have been further developed here. I think I came to say earlier that this is almost the best thing I have long heard the Prime Minister say. I think it's really good. It has not only been a wish on the part of Enhedslisten that you should make that announcement. It has also come from many trade unions. So I think there's a lot of public employees sitting there, and they're really happy. So praise for it, and then no more about it. But I want to stay in the public sector anyway, because at weekends it came out that there are really a lot of departments in fact almost half of them in the country's hospitals, which will have to be exempted from a potential lockout because they cannot provide enough personnel for the emergency response. It sounds a little crazy, but it's actually true. The day-to-day manning is simply lower than the standard agreed for emergency preparedness in the event of a conflict. That is because, in a conflict, there must be no overtime, temporary workers etc., and therefore no lock-out can be achieved. I think it is so telling for the state of our hospitals in Denmark that one cannot actually take a single nurse out of the equation without it actually endangering patients and becoming indefensible. Therefore, my question is not much longer than: what does the Prime Minister think it says about the state of our hospitals that barely half of them cannot be locked out because the manning is so bad in daily life?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132636	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132638	Thank you. I am delighted if I have both made Mrs Pernille Skip and all the public employees happy. That would be good. I do not know whether there is really so much to go and be very happy about, because what I have said does not shake the fact that, if it ends in a major conflict, it will have considerable costs, and that will also be borne by the individual. And what I've said doesn't make this go away. In other words, all the slaughter workers employed and organized in the NNF on the private labour market who are being sent home without pay on the first day of the strike, because veterinary checks have been taken for strike, lose their wages as long as the conflict persists. You cannot gain any pleasure from the fact that I am standing here saying that we can spend a net government saving on one-off expenditures. You don't have to be that happy. With regard to health, I have to say that we do have a labour market which, among other things, includes: I would also like to thank Mrs Pernille Skipper for her flexibility, in other words the opportunity to draw on temporary workers, the opportunity to agree on additional work and other things. And it is clear that if all that flexibility is withdrawn from the equation, and that is what happens, as Mrs Pernille Skipper also explained, it may be that the equation does not go up. This does not upset the fact that we have a health sector which I think is good, which is being better year by year, after all, appointed to be the third best in Europe. There are still a lot of challenges and we will have to invest purposefully, just as we have done historically. Every day, since I became Minister of Health back in 2001, we have employed an extra nurse, and every day since I became Minister of Health, except on Sundays, we have employed an extra doctor in the health care system. And I believe that we will be prepared to make further investments in the health sector in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132836	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132838	I would like to start by agreeing with the Prime Minister that, of course, there is no more to be pleased about. I also believe that if the Prime Minister wishes to make the public employees very happy, he will ensure that a negotiating mandate is given to ensure that they can have a wage increase similar to that in the private sector, according to the slaughterhouse workers mentioned here. It is true that additional staff have been provided in the health sector. That is absolutely right and it would also be completely irresponsible other. What is the problem is that not enough has been added. We're getting older, there's gonna be more tasks, and really bad with the numbers... the reality is that it's being cut. I would like to know whether the Prime Minister does not see this as a problem at all, because I hear the answer that it is not a problem at all and that it is not a problem that day-to-day staffing cannot meet the emergency response standards. Is it because the Prime Minister has not listened to any of the nurses or sosu assistants or doctors who have been out shouting about how bad things really stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132943	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410132945	No, that is an expression of my allowing myself to express myself in a nuanced way. Well, somebody's gotta do it in this Parliament. There is no point in everyone just digging into one or the other ditch and looking at things in black and white. If you look at it in detail, you see a picture of Danish health care, which is in progress and has been so for a considerable number of years, and which delivers better treatment results both absolutely assessed but also relatively measured against other countries. I think it is really, really positive that the Danish health service now ranks as number three in Europe. Can it be taken as an expression of neglecting all the challenges? No, of course it can't. There are plenty of challenges. This is among other things. one of the reasons why the government has undertaken a great deal of work on a cohesion reform which in itself has several dimensions. There is the whole question of leadership. There is a management commission which we hope will be able to make some recommendations later in the spring on successful collective bargaining. Because it's not just about how many employees we have. After all, it is also about how we put their resources into use, how good the working climate is and how much sickness absence is. And there is the whole work of looking at bureaucracy. One of the things I listen a lot to when I talk to doctors and nurses and sosu assistants in our hospitals is that they feel that too much of their working hours are linked up with some administrative routines that have nothing to do with patient treatment. So I'm not drawing a rosy picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133112	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133113	But then again, because it is also a question of crowns and ears, and so investment in health care has not been accompanied by the new tasks. In the country's largest maternity ward there are midwives who quit because it has simply become too poor for it to be professionally okay. They can't be in and can't look themselves in the eye. We have heard about this from many others in the health service. I am sincerely afraid that if a majority in this House continues to ignore what they are telling us, then we will see a lot of people leave their work and they can't be in it anymore. Therefore, it is of course also relevant to take this discussion on the number of hands in connection with the general pay and working conditions in our hospitals and in our public sector. Since 2013, when there was the last public collective bargaining, where the teachers were excused and run over, we have therefore seen primary school teachers leaving the primary school at a worrying rate, and I just wanted to know if the Prime Minister does not agree that it could happen in all sorts of other areas too, if we do not provide proper conditions. I often hear the Prime Minister argue with me, for example. If I suggest that we should have some different pension conditions in here, that we need to have a certain standard in order to recruit the best. If you do not give health professionals proper conditions and proper pay, is the Prime Minister not afraid that they will leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133246	Yes, that goes without saying, and that is why we must treat our employees properly. One parameter here is the pay, and that is why it is also without standing and having collective bargaining here, because it is not my job to say that there have also been some bids which the public employers have felt are sensible in terms of securing what is an ambition and, incidentally, also embedded in the Danish model, namely that we have something similar to a parallel wage development between public and private. That is what we are discussing now, and I hope that a solution will be found. I fully understand that it is not just about pay, it is also about working conditions, as Mrs Pernille Skipper also mentioned. It is clear that this is also why I am pleased that we have employed extra nurses every day since I became Minister for Health in 2001 and a doctor every week except Sunday. Now I think there is a lot of work to do to ensure that these hands are also allowed to reach out, in other words to ensure that there is good management, to debureaucratise, to get a new interface between what is patient-facing and what is just administration. It is also an important parameter. Then, of course, there is the whole question of whether more can be invested in health in the future, and there is the connection, of course, that if you use all the room for manoeuvre on wage increases, then the same room for manoeuvre cannot be used to make more appointments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133411	Thank you, the question is finished. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133421	Thank you, President. We're getting around in questioning today. Now we have been both in Hungary and around welfare, and now we are going to talk about data security. It is my first two questions at least about how we ensure citizens' legal certainty when it comes to sharing sensitive issues. I think everyone in this Chamber is following the current debate on Facebook and how that company has reacted in terms of protecting the personal data of Facebook friends. It raises a lot of questions. But we have also seen at home a number of cases which are not run by a private company but by public authorities. At the beginning of the year, we saw how a national survey of the well-being of school pupils had been carried out, where the students had answered some very personal questions, in the expectation that they were anonymous, and then it turned out that a number of municipalities did not respect that anonymity. We have seen, again recently, that PET has failed to delete information about citizens that they should have deleted, but in turn has transferred it to a new archive. They use such an entirely Orwellian formulation that it is a logical deletion, whatever the hell that means. I'm sorry I got to say the damn thing. The last was Gladsaxe Municipality, which wants to profile all families of children and assign them points in relation to data on e.g. divorce, unemployment and dental visits. All of this raises a whole series of moral and ethical questions: well, how do we share data? What data should not be shared at all? Which would be sensible to share? And in the alternative, we propose that an independent data-ethics council be set up, which is simply examining a whole new field which many of us do not quite know how to deal with, not even the public authorities. So what does the PM think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133629	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133631	Well, I'm thinking something, and I'm quite in agreement with sir. Uffe. Elbæk I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Because it's clear that this whole amount of data that arises, even in a society as regulated as we have, also creates opportunities, and then you have to do it with caution. But it creates some opportunities. Because I think there are many of us who think that if the different corners of the public sector have puzzle pieces like this, and that if you put them together, you could see a picture that would enable you to take care of a child who is miserable and who, if you did not intervene in time, would end up being forcibly removed, then there is something that would argue that it would be nice to be able to put those pieces together. Well, I guess so. Faced with it, of course, we must be able to provide our data, confident that they will not be misused. So this is certainly not black-and-white, and I think we have just started a political discussion and welcome the fact that the Alternative joins in on the one that there are no very quick ways to clarify. There is a national dimension that is an international dimension. As far as national affairs are concerned, we have just set up a data-ethical committee based on discussions in the Danish Government's Disruption Council to have this discussion, including on how companies should deal with it. As far as the international scene is concerned, Europe has been so much the first move with this data regulation coming into force in May, with all its shortcomings. It does not solve all problems, there is probably something that goes too far in relation to voluntary association life and so on, but there is no other force in the world that can take it on. That's what you can see these days, including Facebook. So we need to get this debate into a framework. Whether it is the proposal that the alternative brings up that can solve it, I cannot stand here and stand by it, but I would like to say that this is a debate that needs to be taken seriously. Because if you do not, you end up in one of the ditches: you just accept anything and say that consumers have to decide for themselves. They say: I confirm terms and conditions, but have not read it through. Or you end up in the other ditch, turning your back on the future and not winning. Well, I was trying to imply someone here before.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133857	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410133858	So, I choose to interpret this as a very positive response from the Prime Minister, namely to recognise both the problem and the complexity of it. And, as I said, we believe that it justifies the setting up of such an independent data-ethical council, because it is so important a debate, not only for us here in the Folketing, but also for the people as such. Following on from what Prime Minister also said about the Data Protection Regulation, which is such a rather nerdy word, there are a lot of good things in it, and the government is implementing it. But there is one thing that I do not understand and that I hope the Prime Minister can then try to explain. It is that until now it has been the case that when you decide which data to collect, it has been up to us here in the Folketing to debate it. This means that there is democratic control in relation to having the opportunity at all to gain insight into what is at stake. And now you want to move it over to the fact that it is a trade minister with the Minister for Justice who can decide which data to collect. I think that raises a major democratic problem. So what is the Prime Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134016	Thank you. After all, my knowledge is now being tested, because I do not know the data regulation, either from the front or from the rear. I am aware that in this area and in the way we implement it, there is also ministerial authority, just as there is much other Danish legislation. And that is within the framework of framework legislation. That is why, of course, the Folketing must monitor whether this will also be implemented in a way that, when they use their powers, the ministers will remain within the framework. And if that doesn't happen, then you have to come after the ministers. But the fact that there is some natural division of labour in which not every thing is going to be done in the Assembly, I believe that we can all be of fundamental benefit. It's probably as far as my knowledge of the facts goes. Then I just want to say that when Mr. Uffe Elbæk says we need to set up an independent council because this is difficult, so I think there's some kind of chain that jumps off a little bit. I believe that we have been chosen by the Danish people, and it cannot be the case that because it is going to be difficult, we must stop thinking about it ourselves. Then we just have to put somebody else to mean something. I think this debate has come to stay, I do not have the completed answers. I don't think so, sir. Uffe Elbæk has, but it's a theme that's pushing itself on. And it's a little thought-provoking that people in relation to private companies may be more prepared to say: "I confirm," after which tens of thousands of Danes share your information. We take this lightly, but when we talk about data in the public sector, as a regulated and transparent one, and where there are authorities controlled, we become a little touchy. So we probably need to continue this debate under different conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134147	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134151	We will certainly continue the debate and I am really glad that the Prime Minister agrees that it is absolutely essential that we take it. So thank you for that. As you know, the third question always comes from the Members of the Alternative, and that is very concrete. This is specifically about a specific site in Grindsted, which is very contaminated by Grindstedværket. There are very, very many reasons around Denmark that are contaminated right now. As many as 29,000 sites are contaminated. As I have said, some of them are heavily contaminated and what the members of the alternative are concerned about is whether sufficient resources have been allocated to actually clean them up. Perhaps the Prime Minister cannot answer this question, but now the Prime Minister is getting the question, namely whether the Prime Minister will help the citizens of Grindsted, Billund Municipality and the Region of Southern Denmark financially to do something about the serious pollution under the city after Grindsted plant.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134252	Thank you. Ideally, it should be the case that the polluter pays, and that is why it should not be about how much money we have collectively, but that we can come after those who have polluted. Then, unfortunately, there are historical sins where this principle will be difficult to put through, and then the community will have to step in. That's why we have this soil pollution law that was introduced back in the year 2000. And when it was introduced, it was well known that there was a problem in Grindsted and at polite 42 and elsewhere. A total of 420 million has been set aside. kr. a year. Is that enough? I shall not be able to say that with certainty, but what I can say is that it has been agreed with the regions that in one year's time we will have to evaluate their efforts in relation to the major soil pollution tasks which have been assigned to the regions, and this must naturally be looked at here, namely whether objectives and means are in balance with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134348	Thank you. The question is closed. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134355	I would also like to begin by responding to the Prime Minister's introduction and saying that I am pleased that the Prime Minister took the magazine out of his mouth in relation to the risk of a major conflict. I know from my own experience that it is not always equally welcome when you enter the debate, but I thought it was a good thing that the Prime Minister joined it anyway. I would say that this is a view that we have and that we have advocated in many parts of the country in the municipalities, in other words that we must make sure that the money is made available, that we end up in a conflict, then go back to the welfare areas that are affected. So support from it for that, but also for the hope that a result will be achieved. The last intervention that was made is still a part of the negotiations this time and a big crunch, and I think that it is probably better for all parties if a result is achieved, and I am glad to say so today. Yesterday was 9 April, the day of occupation, and the flag was half in many places, and this is a very good time to remember what freedom really is. Today in the newspapers there is mention of some of the limitations that have occurred in the freedom of the people under this government, but perhaps it is more urgent that the debate on Europe, which the Prime Minister has announced, should also be about the fundamental and fundamental values of freedom, which I think one can also worry about, when one hears here today that the biggest bourgeois party, the government's support party, has reported clearly that one is practically cheering with Viktor Orbán in his victory and sees him as a strong ally for Denmark. I would therefore like to ask you something here on the edge of the debate on Europe announced by the Prime Minister: with the course taken by Viktor Orbán's Hungary to intervene in the media, with concrete action against universities, with the abuse of public funds, with what has led to sharp reactions from many EU countries, is it a strong ally for Denmark, or does the Prime Minister see more that what is needed is in fact that we strengthen cooperation in order to preserve the values that we have been able to enjoy for so many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134613	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134614	I do not really quite understand the urge, I had almost said to devalue our own people's rule down to being a reflection of some other countries, which we should then stand here and talk about and ask whether we can recognize ourselves in them or them. I can recognize us in ourselves, and Denmark is not Hungary in no way. It is quite obvious, geographically, linguistically etc., but it is not culturally and politically. So I can't even see this need for me to be mirroring myself in Viktor Orbán or Hungary, and someone else can then ask about Germany or another country, because there are many countries you can choose. I am standing on my own feet and I can easily see that there are elements of what is going on in Hungarian politics that I will not be able to see myself in. I got to know the government-leading party when I was a very young man and we directly on top of the fall of the Wall did democracy development courses in Denmark together with the Danish Youth Council, and their youth organisation took part with a very liberal start, but it has undergone a significant change, which I find difficult to find, as it were, myself in. I can see that. But that does not alter the fact that the EU currently consists of 28 countries and we want to have relations with all the other 27 countries. And there are things we can work together on and build alliances around, and there are things we cannot work together on and build alliances around, and so it will be with Viktor Orbán, who is therefore an elected leader in a country that is a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134744	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134746	Thank you for your answer, which I think fortunately contained more than the obvious that Denmark is not Hungary. Otherwise, we might not have to have a question time to clarify it. But the Prime Minister has also been visited by Britain's Prime Minister, Theresa May, who, of course, has chosen a course with his country in relation to the European Union, which, in my view, is moving towards division and weakening. Here too, the largest bourgeois party, the government's support party, has a slightly different attitude. It seems to me that this is the way England is going and that at some point it must be considered whether Denmark should go in the same direction. That's why the question's gonna be a little bit the same here. In other words, if this is not the Hungarian road, I assume it is not the British one either. But if we're on our way, maybe the Prime Minister could just say a little more about where we're going?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410134842	Thank you. We're on our way to brighter times. And what are brighter times? But it is a Denmark that is getting richer; where the number of people living on public transfers is getting lower; where more children are getting a good start. And what's it gonna take? This requires prosperity and development. What guarantees prosperity and development? This means that Denmark is an active part of international cooperation and, in particular, an EU which this year celebrates the 25th anniversary of the Single Market, on which hundreds of thousands of Danish companies' jobs depend. It has created wealth, which means that in my lifetime we have doubled imports and exports and have become twice as open a country. But we have also become twice as rich, and we must continue to do so. That is why our answer is not a Danexit or something like that. In other words, it is to hold on to an EU that deepens its cooperation where it adds value and makes sense, and which, on the other hand, also respects the fact that there are cultural differences and this has just been highlighted here between countries. And that is the balance that needs to be struck. That is why I am on the line of completing the internal market, i.e. first and foremost the internal energy market and the digital internal market. Denmark will be richer by it, Europe will be richer by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135000	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135001	But I do not want to be a blackseer, but I think there are many who are worried about where Europe is going, given both the things that are happening in Eastern Europe and the things that have happened in Britain. And I think it's time for politicians who want to act and not just look at and make themselves a victim of that development. That is why it is urgent for us to hear what the government intends to do in relation to placing Denmark in the European political debate. Now I started by mentioning the day of occupation yesterday, and I told my daughter the story my grandmother told me about what it was like to live in Denmark during the occupation, where they had to bury certain types of books that were subject to German censorship. And I think it is deeply worrying if we allow some people within the European Community we have laboriously built up to live in something similar to when we could not speak, think and write freely. And that requires politicians who are conscious of their responsibilities and who want something beyond just seeing developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135102	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135104	I agree with that one hundred percent. And what does this require in relation to Denmark and Europe? But that requires sticking together and keeping Europe united, if I may say so briefly. So, a Denmark that adheres to means that we are an active part of European cooperation. Through referendums, we have created some limitations, some reservations. At some point we will have to break the taboos attached to it and reactivate a discussion about the wisdom of it. We'll get back to that. We have to, because we have to stick to it. Europe must keep itself together, and what does that mean? This means, if you ask me, among other things, that you must be careful not to create large-scale federalist institutional projects which in themselves mean that some people are being pushed off in cooperation. And that is why I am so glad that some of the things that have been on the table to beat the President, the President of the Commission, and the President of the Council together in a position, on transnational lists and all sorts of other things, which I can say with certainty that the people of a number of countries, I believe, including the Danish, but at least also the people of some of the Eastern European countries we have talked about here today, would respond negatively to, has not happened. You gotta stay away from it. Then we must keep our noses up and solve the tasks that the people expect of us, who create growth and dismantle youth unemployment, ensure that the external borders are managed, take care of our security, combat terrorism, that is, where everyone can see intuitively that there is common sense in cooperation across countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135239	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135250	I was so happy when I turned on the radio paper this morning at 9:00 a.m. 6.00 and heard that the Prime Minister promised that any lock-out funds would be used for welfare, and I was pleased, because after SF Albertslund, as the first one a while ago, proposed it in the city council in Albertslund and succeeded in getting through with it, it has actually spread like a steppe fire through the country that many of the country's municipalities have said very clearly that they will use the money for welfare. So I'm glad the Prime Minister is following in the tracks of SF Albertslund. However, I hope, like the Prime Minister, that the ambition remains to reach an agreement and not a lockout. So I would also just like to be absolutely sure when we are talking about a lockout and a possible lockout and the money that comes into play in this regard, what the Prime Minister is actually proposing. You always have to dig a spade stick deeper. The starting point is, of course, that all institutions have an unchanged budget, whether there is conflict or not. The money saved in an institution will be based on the institution concerned, unless the municipal council, the regional council or, for that matter, the Folketing decides otherwise. So what the Prime Minister proposed this morning and also in the Danish Parliament today is, so to speak, that you confiscate some of the funds granted and take them from the public institutions and use it as a political stunt? Or can the Prime Minister clarify his proposal a little more and say which institutions can be taken out of the money so that you can reach 250 million? kr. a day?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135430	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135432	Thank you. May I just say that when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that I am now proposing something, if there is a lockout, and therefore completely goes over the fact that there was also a strike warning, I think that a wrong picture is being drawn. So just for the record: an extremely targeted strike is announced. I gave an example of how a strike compared to relatively few veterinarians and others thus sends thousands of Danish slaughterhouse workers home without pay, without a strike box, without any things empty-handed homes and then you react with lock-out warning, and so we have seen together the picture of a potential major conflict that we should preferably avoid, and both parties must contribute to that. I would then like to say, on the other hand, that there are the regions and the municipalities on the one hand, and then there is the state on the other. In relation to the municipalities and the regions: we are not interfering in that. We're making community economics agreements. Economics have been made available to the municipalities and the regions and how they use it is their business. So how people in the individual municipality, in the individual region, will manage to bring an immediate saving into play afterwards, is like their case. I am referring to the state, and in the area of the state, as the big conflict is, there will be a wage saving in the order of around 0.25 billion. kr. per I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of tobacco products. Now I mentioned the example before, didn't I? Well, there will be a driver who should have led a train that never got out of the car, and it is not the case that the next day they say: then we send the two of us off on the same bell. So there will be a salary that will never be paid to the driver. That is why there will be some net gain, and we will have to do so, and then we will have to decide how to ensure that that money can be re-invested in the welfare field. But it's not a model I've developed in every detail, and I hope I don't have to be careful that I don't make a cheat word that I'm ever going to get into the situation where I'm going to develop this model in every detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135655	Well, right must be right. It's strike, and it's lockout. I'm not missing anything there. The point is just what kind of funds we are talking about, and there I am glad that the Prime Minister is talking about the state's resources, namely an amount of 250 million. kr. But with regard to the things operated under the State, among other things. Vocational training and other forms of training will still be a matter of catching up with overtime or at least catching up with the hours that have not been earned, or of making investments at the individual institution, because money has just been saved along the way. Now the Prime Minister says that the model is not fully developed, and I can understand that very well, and I hope that we will not end up in a major conflict in any way whatsoever, but when the Prime Minister mentions precisely this example by train, there are other examples of something that makes the Prime Minister exactly 250 million. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135751	No, I'm not going up to exactly 250 million. kr. I am just saying that if there is a strike/lockout to the extent that it has been announced and that, unfortunately, you cannot exclude it because that is what will happen if you do not find a solution. It will be the case that there are employees similar to employees who should have something similar in the vicinity of 250 million. kr. a day. And they don't get that money because they don't get to work, either because they're on strike or because they're on lockout and they don't get their pay, because after all, you only get paid when you go to work. This is not the same as having a net saving on this figure, because, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also suggests, you will have to sit down and say: Well, what kind of money will never get into play again? And I gave this example with a train that never needs to be driven again, but there may also be other money that comes into play again because you have to pay some people to work more than they had to, to settle a hump. But incontrovertibly it will be the case that some people go back into the system to catch up and that there will be some net saving, I do not know how big it will be, and I hope it will never come, because that will be a reflection of how much is it and how many days it will last? I hope it's not coming. I am just saying that, in order for no one to be in any doubt, when we have calculated the amount, if we should get there, we will ensure that they are brought back into the system to the citizen's welfare in the areas for which the state is responsible, because we will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135927	Thank you. Then the speaking time is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410135930	I think that's good. I think it is a good thing that the Prime Minister will not seize any lock-out funds, but will spend them on welfare. I fully agree with the Prime Minister. But I think it is quite important that we also deal with the element that this strike warning/lockout warning has shown, namely that we have challenges also in the citizen's welfare. Once the hospitals have announced that they cannot lockout because they cannot provide emergency preparedness, we have some major challenges with just the basic welfare out there, and that should be thoughtful. We need to have a discussion when we now have some savings, how we use them wisely in terms of welfare, how we ensure that it becomes citizens' welfare, so that it does not just end up with what I have heard certain rapporteurs in the government parties saying: it is good to have them in a fund, because then you have some extra money that can be used for tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140029	Thank you. We need a little more quiet so we can hear the last answer from the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140034	I do not know what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has heard anyone say. Listen to what I'm saying! So, we have no ambition to save a penny. We have such an ambition that the money we have set aside for pay will be spent on pay because people go to work and do not strike or be locked out, and the prerequisite for that is that we get an agreement that falls into place. That is our ambition. If it does happen anyway and you just have to say that we are also so close to the deadline that you cannot stand and say that it certainly does not happen, because two to a tango I just make it very, very clear that then we have no other ambition to save and use it for anything but that the net gain/net saving must be recycled for citizens' welfare. That is our ambition. Then it will be said about the emergency response, which is also what I spoke to Mrs Pernille Skipper about, that there are some problems. Well, I guess there are challenges in Danish society. That is precisely why we must try if it is not possible to avoid this conflict; no one is getting richer. Since the parliamentary elections, we have had an increase in prosperity, which means that if you divide the increase in prosperity, each Dane has averaged DKK 9,200. richer since the last parliamentary elections. 9,200 kr. richer! I have an ambition that that number should grow, and it will be put back if Denmark closes, so we should try to avoid that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140201	Thank you. That concludes the question, and so is Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140215	There are a few messages that I should like to read out, and I would also like to ask for some silence. On 8 April 2018, Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL) announced that she will resign as a member of the Folketing per year. On 8 April 2018, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in respect of: The Financial Committee has issued a report and a recommendation on the report on the state accounts submitted by the State auditors for the financial year 2016. B 139). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140242	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 46 by Mette Gjerskov (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA), Zenia Stampe (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour, 66 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 37 (DF, EL and ALT). Proposal for adoption No V 46 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 45 by Claus Kvist Hansen (DF), Søren Søndergaard (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140426	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140430	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 93 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140510	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140515	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. Then we wait a moment with the next point until people have left the Chamber. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140641	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140700	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-8, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF)? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 10 outside the report by the tax minister as adopted. It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9 Acting by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140802	The debate is open. Sir. Jens Joel, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410140808	Thank you, Mr President. It is, of course, a law on the promotion of renewable energy and, as such, it is also a positive one. However, I have to say that what is behind the legislative proposal we are discussing here today is an agreement that we have been very critical of because, so to speak, it slows down the green transition. If you take the government's own offer of how much sun and wind, i.e. renewable energy, we get set up, then it is a halving of the pace we have so far developed. This is the first problem, and it is of course the biggest problem, that is to say that we are slowing down our transition to renewable energy and the setting up of renewable energy. However, it is also problematic that a model has been chosen which does not provide the most renewable energy for the money. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party and, incidentally, a number of other parties have been very critical in the debate prior to that agreement. It is also in the proposal that tenders must be put in place and that there must be competition between, for example, sun and wind, and we are not opposed to tenders being made or there being competition. Our prerequisite for this kind of thing is that things can be compared, and we want you to use this model. However, we find it difficult to see the logic of the government choosing a model that costs more and provides less renewable energy than could otherwise have been obtained. And there you could probably hear the government say: well, that's just something the opposition says because they have to find something to be dissatisfied with. But the truth is that this is also what the Danish Industry and the other business organisations say, so that with this scheme we will unfortunately have a slightly bigger bill for the Treasury than we should have received and we will have less green change for the climate. And that's a bad prey, we think. In addition, in the context of the agreement there were also discussions about what the incentives are, i.e. what the carrot is, for there to be local support for setting up renewable energy. And there, unfortunately, some of the carrots that were previously tampered with have been tampered with, but the government has not responded to what, if I may say so, will be replaced. That is why we are really sorry that this, apart from slowing down the conversion and expansion of renewable energy sources, also makes it more expensive than it should have been, and that it weakens the local commitment and the carrot to participate in the green transition. Against this background, the Social Democrats think that this is an unfortunate agreement, but it is also clear, of course, that we will go into the committee procedure to see if there is anything we can improve or correct. We always pursue every opportunity to make this better. However, when we were not in the agreement, it is because we actually believe that it provides too little green conversion for money, that it does so in the wrong way and that it does so in a way that our neighbouring countries do not use. And that also means that in the competition for, for example, experimental mills and other things we are weaker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141124	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141134	Thank you. I quite agree with the rapporteur that it is a bad agreement that is the basis of this bill. So there's a majority going to go through with this technology-neutral offer, and that's it. In fact, I think it is important that it is properly evaluated. For now there have been all sorts of consultation answers and debates about how you could get more money, you could get more renewable energy if you had knitted it together in a different way. There are consultation answers where it says that the industry would like to be involved in evaluating it. That is not accepted by the Minister. In the consultation answers, there is a desire that the industry would like to participate in this evaluation, and it is quite natural that you try to see if there can be something a little more clever than what the law here ensures. Does the rapporteur see the importance of involving the industry in the evaluation that should be done on top of this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141237	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141239	Thank you for the question. I can do that. On the whole, I think that the government should open the doors to reality and listen a little more to the people who have something at stake and which it is about. Because the problem in this agreement and what is now becoming legislation is, in fact, that we have overheard the signals that were from the industry. The government has done so because it has had an ideological agenda, that is, a certain starting point, which was obviously more important. But it has also been said that we would like to test this model, and there it is quite obviously right, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen points out that when you then assess whether it was a good idea or not, it is perfectly obvious to involve the industry again. So I would urge you to do that, as I hear the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141325	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141327	We are faced with the fact that it is now being tested, and it may then be important to have a consultation process after which the Ministry of Finance is consulted, whether they really think it was worth having an entirely safe economy and then only a few wind turbine extensions, and in relation to what it has had with negative effect on employment in Denmark, that you only got half as many wind turbines as you could have had. Thank you for the answer that evaluation of this is important, we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141356	I can say, in addition to the fact that there have been too few wind turbines and too little green conversion for the money, that the Ministry of Finance must also deal with it, that it has paid more for it than it needed. It may be a good idea to have security in relation to the bill, but it is a bit of a shame if the security is that you actually pay too much money, it is at least a little too bad security, from a point of view where you try to take care of taxpayers' and community money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141423	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141426	Thank you. I just hit the button here in front of me when Mr. Simpson... Jens Joel asked the government to listen to those who have something at stake out in reality. Jens Joel formulated it. Mr. Jens Joel not also that taxpayers have something at stake in this context in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141450	Yeah, I certainly think so. The taxpayers are also out in the real world. What's the problem with this scheme is that the government's own assessment is actually also that the total bill, that is. The bill for taxpayers gets bigger with this model than it needed to be. And in this situation, it is not a concern for taxpayers either. It is only a consideration that you can guess how much the bill is going to be, but it is a little too bad if you swap it for knowing that you pay more than you should have done and you get less green conversion. I do not think that is to take care of the climate or, for that matter, the taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141524	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141526	Yes, there is now also a risk element here, but let us perhaps take it later in committee. Sir. Jens Joel also mentions the slowing down in the expansion and that the Social Democrats will not be in favour of this bill because it slows down the expansion of renewable energy. But the expansion of renewable energy is probably the expansion of renewable energy, and this is precisely an expression of the fact that the government and the Danish People's Party will actually continue the expansion of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141555	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141557	Yeah, and on that basis, it's hard not to get out well. If the alternative is that we put the world at a standstill and do nothing, then even this government can appear as if it is moving in the right direction. When we have been critical of the game here, it is actually because we are halving the pace of expansion, that is, the pace we have had up to now, and I find that difficult to see any priority being given to the green transition or any bet or anything else. But, of course, it is far better than if you do nothing. I just hope that there are not many in the honorable thing that had intended that we should do nothing about the green transition in the next few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141638	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141640	I am very pleased that Mr. Jens Joel says you shouldn't make a proposal where you don't do anything. When you look at the Social Democratic Finance Bill, you can see that 0 DKK has been set aside. in this area, so I assume that if the budget bill is to stand, no extra bets will be made. That is why I am very surprised that the Social Democratic Party, when we now have a government that is once again taking initiatives to promote the green transition, is getting off once again, because there are some technicalities that are not entirely satisfied, instead of welcoming the fact that we are running further than the previous government in order to ensure a green transition. Nearly a billion people are being expanded in this area. kr., and then the Social Democratic Party is outside. Well, I don't understand. The same applies to the electricity tax: I do not understand why we can be left outside when we come with funding. In the Social Democracy's own proposal for the Finance Act, 0 DKK has been set aside. Can the rapporteur help me to understand the logic a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141738	If sir... Thomas Danielsen asks if we think it's a good deal you've made, then the answer is no. Of course, I stand by the fact that when there is a majority in the Folketing that wants to make this agreement, it is better than if the majority of the Folketing would have zero expansion. But I think that if you sit out there as an industry and you're doing this, you have a right not only to get the highlight, that the government is going to spend 1 billion. kr., but also that this is actually a halving of the pace we have had so far. 'Cause it sounds great when mr. Thomas Danielsen says you're gonna spend $1 billion. If what has been done so far has been more effective, then we are entitled, I think, to emphasise that we could have had more renewable energy for less money. This is the discussion we have had, and Mr. Thomas Danielsen himself has been involved in the talk and knows that we put a lot of arms around it and that it was very important for the government to know exactly what it cost, that is that it was actually more important than ensuring that the bill was as small as possible and that we got as much renewable energy as possible for the money. That's the conflict we've had. And we have had no interest in standing outside of this; on the contrary, we have tried with all our power to get to the table and make an agreement. However, the government had an initiative which it did not want to change on the essential prerequisites set out by Mr. Thomas Danielsen calls technicalities, but which is what industry actually points out as the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141903	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141904	So it is a little strange to hear that the rapporteur is lamenting that he is predicting a slowing down when there has been a total stop in the Social Democrats' own proposal; 0 DKK has been set aside. So this is a bit of a funny discussion. So we go beyond what you have funding for; we go beyond what was agreed on in 2012, and then the Social Democrats will not be on that agenda. I can't believe it. After all, it is not just a question of giving us greater financial security for the future with this solution. We also ensure that we get more energy when we need it. So it is not just a question of producing as much energy as possible; it is also a question of the fact that, in the context of the energy we get, there are some incentives that encourage us to get it produced when we need it. So it's completely black that Mr. Jens Joel talks about a slow-down when the Social Democrats have made a total stop of DKK 0. on their financial billing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410141959	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142001	Under no circumstances have we stood for a total stop, for the time being that we have made an energy agreement, and then there is next to it the expiry of a system which has so far been in force. So it is very logical for the government to ask: what are we going to do instead of the existing system? And that is what we say: let us negotiate on it. And we say to the government: it's okay if you don't think we should spend more money than this, but we could have gotten more green conversion for less money. That is what we were trying to lure the government with, and the government evidently felt it was more important to stick to an ideological desire for how the tender model should be knitted together than to ensure that we actually got as much green change as possible for the money. That was the reason why we were not included in that agreement, although of course we support and welcome the fact that we are doing something that does not go to zero.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142052	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142054	I just think it's important to cut into this leg. The Danish Parliament is now discussing a bill that leads to more renewable energy in Denmark. It is the very concrete proposal that is on the table, and the Social Democrats, who want to appear as a green party, choose to vote against it, so to speak. This means that the green transition is lifted up by the government and the Danish People's Party, and social democracy does not contribute. This is, in fact, at the heart of this, and I just think that the Social Democrat rapporteur should stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142127	I have not actually said that we are voting against the proposal. I have said that we think it might have been wiser to have made a better proposal. Anyway, I can hear that the spinning machine has started because that is what you want to have a conflict about. Well, peace be with it, the Left itself must mess with it. We think that this is better than nothing, but we would like to point out that we could have had more green energy for less money, and that is why we think it is a pity that we have chosen this model, and we do not think that we should fall on our tail and welcome the fact that the government is now slowing down and halving the pace of the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142209	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142211	It must then be admitted that the paddle was then paddled backwards, and that is so fine. Because in the rapporteur's speech there was opposition to the chosen model by making it technology-neutral and by the way you calculate the price premium. It was a great criticism on the part of the Social Democratic Party. And then I would like to sign if the conclusion of that speech is that the Social Democratic Party nevertheless supports the bill. I would say that is a somewhat different interpretation of a rapporteur's speech than the one I am usually used to when I hear them in the Chamber. But this is probably due to the fact that this bill leads to more renewable energy in Denmark and it does more for the green transition than what the Social Democratic Party itself has proposed and, as my colleague from the Left so rightly said, was 0 DKK.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142302	Was Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen here for the rapporteur's speech? I told you verbatim, we support invitations to tender. We would also like to have competition between the technologies. That was not at all the problem with the discussion we had. Now I understand that we are also opposed to technology neutrality. I am just saying that we are not going to, just because we are then tabling it as a bill, to say to the government: well, now you are doing everything right for the green transition too. If we had been wiser, we could have had more green conversion for less money, and we point that out. Then I say what is absolutely clear, that it is of course better that the government does something, even if what you do is unwise than that you do nothing. It is, of course, the sort of nuance that the Left needs to be able to deal with if we are going to move forward in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142351	Thank you. And that is what we have to do with the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142405	Thank you. The bill, which we are discussing here today, implements the agreement reached by the Danish People's Party and the government in September last year to organise the provision of support for solar cells and wind turbines in the years 2018 and 2019. In addition to the supply, the draft law and the political agreement also contain a few other related elements, such as support for experimental mills and a transitional arrangement. The reason is that the previous aid scheme for solar cells and wind turbines expired in February of this year and that the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed to replace the old scheme with a new scheme which takes into account the development of the technologies and therefore no longer needs the current level of support. The new scheme is designed in a way that takes account of developments in which renewable energy from solar cells and wind turbines is produced more and more efficiently, so that the need for aid has decreased and should be expected to decrease further, so that, in a number of years, it may be possible to cope with market conditions. Therefore, the new aid scheme is designed as an invitation to tender in which those interested in setting up solar or landwind mills with aid must make a bid as to the amount of aid needed. The lowest bid-winners win and receive aid paid out for 20 years, thereby achieving the situation that renewable energy is not supported by more than is just necessary. As an additional assurance that the effects of the falling support need are visible, it is agreed between Dansk Folkeparti and the government that only bids of less than 13 øre per. kilowatt-time may be considered. It has also been agreed that there is a total budget of 829 million. kr. for the aid scheme for all years of payment of the aid, ensuring that public finances are not burdened by an uncontrolled increase in the cost of the aid scheme. In the Danish People's Party we are pleased with the agreement. We are because, with the agreement, we are taking a step towards limiting support for renewable energy, thereby making it cheaper to be a Dane. In the Danish People's Party we have for many years noted that the rapid expansion of renewable energy has required a high level of support because technology has not been competitive with traditional forms of energy. Thus, Danish society has spent large amounts of money supporting renewable energy and thus making it more expensive to be a Dane. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have had an ambition for many years to keep support for renewable energy under control, and that is the ambition that we have come a little closer to achieving with the agreement here. The agreement covers the offer in 2018 and 2019 and thus it has also been said that there is no aid scheme until 2020 and, where appropriate, it must be negotiated and decided politically later. In any event, the two invitations to tender in 2018 and 2019 will provide good indications of the level of support. The Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142638	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142646	Thank you for that, President. Bill L 190 aims to allow energy technologies to compete for support, which is why the draft law must also create a more level playing field between the various energy technologies. With the supply, Denmark is guaranteed a cost-effective green transition, where the support is given where we get the most renewable energy for the money. By allowing the market to play a greater role, we also ensure the socio-economically most appropriate green transition, and in the Left we take the side of consumers. Therefore, it is a great victory that the Danes can now look forward to as smart green conversion as possible for the money. That is why, of course, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142732	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142735	Does the rapporteur not regret not finding a substitute for this green scheme so that people can continue to support the country as a whole for wind turbines?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142747	It's like this is a transitional arrangement. After all, we will soon see the government's energy initiative, and then we will have to negotiate with, among others. The Radical Left, and there are all the possibilities at stake. After all, it is no secret that the green scheme disappeared along with the PSO abolition. However, we must soon start energy negotiations, which must be between 2020 and 2030, and in this respect, of course, we are open to all wishes and discussions in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142824	Thank you. Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142825	Somehow I think it meant yes. So I'm gonna take a new question. In the case of 235 MW, which is thought to be worth about 1 billion. kr., with the model we have proposed, with the ordinary energy price scenarios that the Danish Energy Agency works with, that is, what you expect to be the price of electricity, could actually have been given 400 MW instead, that is to say almost twice as much wind, and then you could have got revenue kr. Could we ask the rapporteur to explain why it is smarter to spend more money and get fewer megawatts than it is to spend less money and get more wind, as we propose?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142904	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410142905	Well, that is an eternal discussion in relation to: What is the purpose of our offer? This is an experimental model where we'd like to try out some mechanisms. If the purpose was to get as much green conversion as possible for every penny we spend, then we could probably get a little more energy if we let the state take the risk. It is clear that it is also a question of who should take the risk. But what I find much more interesting is that if we are to have a hundred percent transition to green energy in the long term, then it is not enough just to produce a whole lot of VE when the wind, for example. blowing, it is important that we produce as much as possible when it is needed. Therefore, this should also be seen in the context of the fact that we do not want to produce as much as possible alone. The success criterion is to be produced at the times when it is needed, i.e. when consumers demand energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143007	Thank you, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143010	Did the rapporteur just say that it was not important for the government to have as much green conversion as possible for the money? I would say that if I do a media search in a moment, the rapporteur is one of the members of the House who says most and most of all that we must have the most green conversion for the money. So I actually think it is quite economically irresponsible of the government to make an offer that costs the Danish Treasury, but also the Danish citizens more money than necessary. What is the government's answer to that, that is, that you just throw the money around and get nothing for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143054	I do not think I will move on to which parties are most financially responsible, but it is true that I hope I have been quoted in several places to say that we want as much green conversion as possible for the money. That is why we are now setting the course for an increased supply model. If the rapporteur then took note of what I said in my speech, then we want as smart as possible what is important is also that we produce green energy at the times when we need it. That's what we're creating incentives for with this model.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143132	Well, that's not correct. Well, if you look at the model versus the model where you get the most energy for the money, you'll see that you'll get about the same energy mix in return you'll get twice as many megawatt hours. So it is really just throwing money out of the window, and I think it is grotesque to do that with the citizens' money, that is to say you have such irresponsible dealings with the funds when we know that we can have twice as many megawatt hours if you had made the supply smarter. I am not opposed to renewable energy supply models. I am actually a great supporter of this. I am even ready to discuss technology neutrality, but that is not what this call for tenders is about. The reason why this is problematic is the way it has been arranged, that is to say that it has been said that you want a fixed price because the boys over in the Ministry of Finance are more concerned with the amount immediately than they are concerned with how much renewable energy we get for the money. In the end, it is actually a cost to citizens. In fact, I find it a little appalling that a party that is normally financially responsible behaves so economically irresponsible!
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143239	I welcome the fact that the rapporteur is in favour of the government's, what should we say, change the course in relation to tenders, because that is precisely the recipe for getting as much green conversion as possible for the money. What we saw at the same time is that we get so much smart that's what we do with this model. It is a new course in relation to what has been done in Denmark in the past. This is a transitional arrangement which will have to run as an experiment, and from there we will have to see what we can agree to in the future. But there is no doubt that what we are concerned with is producing as much green energy as possible when we need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143319	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143322	Thank you. I just got a little curious here, so I would like to ask the rapporteur: why should this clever, as the rapporteur points out, provide a better distribution of renewable energy when we need it, just because you choose a model of supply that very few other countries otherwise use? Why would this smart thing give you a better distribution of VE?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143352	Thank you for the question. So what this is all about is whether we should have a fixed price or whether we should have a fixed price surcharge. That is also the decisive incentive in relation to what we, for example, are doing. must do to get windmill producers to make the mill perhaps produce a little less than the maximum. can provide, by turning it. On the other hand, it may then produce more power at the times when you need it. That is one example, and that is what will be smart green conversion instead of just producing as much as possible, which we will then have to export at a very low price. After all, it is no secret that there are times when we produce significantly more VE than we need. With this method, there are some incentives that we can get manufacturers to produce it a little more smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143448	With all due respect, I don't think these two things are connected. A windmill will, of course, stand and produce what the wind power is now giving rise to, and if we are to make better use of that energy where it, for example, is producing. Blows a lot, so it's all about investing in storing energy... something we also talk a lot about here in the Danish Parliament. So can the rapporteur explain what the rapporteur means by that connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143518	Just when we talk about energy storage, that's one of the things we're going to talk about when we're going to make our energy reconciliation. It is true that there are a large number of parameters that we need to strike when we have to make our energy reconciliation, because of course there is a lot of RES that we want to store. But it is also interesting to produce as much as possible at the times when it is most needed, and that is what this model, which we have now decided to do, supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143550	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143554	Like the rapporteur, the rapporteur argues that this should be a smart solution. Then I will read out what is the concentrate of the consultation answer from Danish Industry. It says: "Danish Industry calls for the price premium to be designed as a variable price supplement based on a contract-for-difference model, which will include: result in lower bids from investors as well as lower costs for the State. So I find it a little difficult to understand that the rapporteur can consider it clever to choose something that is becoming more expensive and where you get less for the money. I would like to hear the rapporteur reflect a little on this consultation answer from the Danish Industry, which, as such, clearly makes it clear that this is a bad choice and not a smart choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143649	It is of course no surprise to me that in the hearings I have read them, just as Enhedslisten welcomes the fact that it is the state that has to take on the risk one hundred percent. And it is clear that you can get some pension companies and other large companies to welcome the fact that it is the state that has to take on the risk. There is another element in this agreement that we do not approve of, and it is about who is going to take on the risk of these investments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143723	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143725	After all, it is a majority in the Folketing that has decided on an energy policy. That is why it is also very reasonable that it is the state that is taking a certain risk. In fact, when you have an energy policy that is forward-looking and that must take account of some climate challenges, I think it is reasonable that there is some risk in it. Many things are adopted in the Folketing, in which there is a certain risk. Then I think it might be interesting to hear the rapporteur about this with the smart stuff. Wouldn't it be smarter to have a model of supply that ensured an energy mix where there was also room for solar energy so that we don't risk that wind power only wins on this offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143805	We are a majority in the Folketing which goes even further than the previous energy policy circle has decided. That's right. That is why we are now throwing even more money into ensuring a green transition. That is also correct. We have just created a model that tries to make some kind of neutrality so that sun and wind can compete, thereby expecting to achieve significantly better prices, because there will not be the same gain for them either for sun or wind. In this way, we believe that we will get the best prices for consumers. And what we are preoccupied with is ensuring as much green conversion as possible for consumers, and in this case even in a smarter way than we could otherwise have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143852	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next in line on the platform is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410143904	The worst thing about this bill is that there are some bigger perspectives about it. This is not just a legislative proposal, which in turn translates something into the end of the energy conciliation where you should have just produced something more renewable energy. What is worrying about that is that if it is the Ministry of Finance who is going to define the framework conditions of the next energy agreement for the next 10 years, it makes me worried, so if you cannot look at these consultation answers and come to the conclusion that you have to select the tender form in which you get as much megawatt as possible for the money. And you don't do that here, and I think that's too bad. I think it is important that we clarify this in the committee procedure and perhaps have an amendment tabled which makes it clearer how to evaluate it here. For one thing, there is a majority wishing to implement this, and we must accept that, but how will it be evaluated in order for the rapporteur of the Left to be able to evaluate whether it is a smart or unsavory way? We can see it afterwards, and I think it is essential that we involve the industry, because that is what they are asking for in a consultation answer, so that they want to be involved in this evaluation, and you just respond to that as if you are not interested in it. I think we should include as much as possible in the evaluation of this bill once we have settled these two invitations to tender. Nor do I think it is clever that you do not drive after there is an energy mix in our electricity supply that can be better than anything else. We're gonna have to make it 15-20 percent. electricity in our electricity supply, which comes from solar cells, but you just ignore that, because you want to send it in, and then we get to see if something smart comes out of it. I also think it is a pity that we are not listening a little more to the consultation responses in connection with the guarantee system that has been in place until now, when new projects could receive a grant of 500 000 at a start-up, because the development has run from the small amount and that amount should be increased, but that is not what we are doing here. Then there is still a concern in the industry whether you are ready with rules and conditions on network connection, so that those who want to make a bid for sun or wind have a certainty that the energy companies across Denmark know how to define what it costs to be connected to the grid. And there I have asked the Minister earlier where the Minister said that it would be put in place. I can see that the industry is still worried about the guidelines that should be for the companies that need to define what it is going to cost, because the industry is still unsure whether it can be achieved. And I think it could be important to know from the Minister's mouth again today, i.e. whether it is certain that the guidelines will be there in good time before the companies have to offer a price for this solar or wind turbine extension. I also think it is a pity that we have not been able to handle the built-in solar panels in this supply in some way, so we were able to promote it. I have heard that this can be supported by EUDP funds and so on, and that is also true, but it is a real pity that the funds available for research and development in the energy sector in Denmark are now at a much lower level than they have done in the past. There really is something that needs to be restored so that the technologies that can eventually be successful can be promoted. Can we then vote against such a bill here? Yes, it is a bit difficult, because it is an expansion of renewable energy, but I do not think that we in the Enhedslisten will take responsibility for the government and the Danish People's Party choosing a model where you get half as much money, so it will probably end up with us voting blankly on this proposal, because we cannot take responsibility for something that is as economically irresponsible as this one, but I have to admit that it is, of course, an expansion of renewable energy, and then we must ensure that it is evaluated in the best way, so that we do not make mistakes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144325	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144325-2	Thank you. I just think I would sign for it and say to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten that I am actually pleased that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is now expressing concern about whether the Ministry of Finance should decide on the financing of future energy policy. I think that Enhedslisten's rapporteur should maintain that concern, because of course the Ministry of Finance must decide on the financing of future energy policy. It's like what this is all about, and it's all about. Well, this bill, too. So I think the Enhedslisten rapporteur should retain that concern. Of course, we need to involve everyone in this process, when evaluating on these, you can call them a kind of experimental offer scheme here from 2018 and 2019. However, would the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten not also confirm to me that the industry is of course only interested in selling as many wind turbines as possible so that electricity can be produced as possible, but that it is not necessarily for socio-economic purposes the most practical thing, because we will then be selling a whole lot of wind energy that we have Stated on the electricity market and actually paid to get rid of?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144444	If you have to make a very controlled production in Denmark, it is certainly possible to do so, but that is not what has been proposed here. Here it is, in fact, the lack of planning in a supply that you are cultivating, by saying that it doesn't matter whether it's solar cells or wind turbines that come up, and then you choose a model where you don't get as much wind energy as you might otherwise have got, and I think that's a shame when we're in this economic talk. Clearly, I do not think it is up to the Ministry of Finance to decide. It is up to the majority of the Folketing to decide. Second Vice-President The questioner). Well, was it finished? Second Vice-President Is the rapporteur finished? ) No, I've got 20 seconds left. It is perhaps the problem, the dilemma in this, that we have got used to a Ministry of Finance which, like it, has a right of veto over everything. I do not accept that, and I would like us to take some of their calculators and smash them because they use some calculation models that do not involve what we have to do at all in the climate considerations we have to take. As a society, we must take a small risk of expanding here, because that is what we want as a society. If the majority wants something visionary in the area of climate change, you have to take responsibility for it, and then it may be that you do not know the exact price down on the commas, but that is the risk we have to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144600	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144602	Thank you. There can be a little confusion about who really has to say when, of course. Once again, however, I would just like to acknowledge to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur: keep the concern, because what is actually the case is that in this context, the Ministry of Finance brings the market into the Danish energy policy, brings a market-based transition to green energy into the energy policy, and this seems to be one of the objections to Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144631	I note that I apparently agree much more with the wind turbine industry and the Danish Industry in this matter than the Liberal Alliance is, and I am quite comfortable with that. We are happy to listen to all the players, and here there are some in the wind turbine industry and in the business sector who know what is the best solution when it comes to developing renewable energy, and that is not the solution that is the room for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144656	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410144704	Thank you very much. Then we'll get the platform down to my height too. The agreement here, which has already given rise to a great deal of debate, is the implementation of an agreement which I actually believe is a significant and rather important shift in Danish energy policy • away from the planned economic thinking of past times with politically designated technology-specific state aid schemes without any consideration whatsoever for market and technology development. We are moving a small step towards a more market-based green transition with the bill instead of Danish energy policy, and of course a liberal, green rapporteur like me is pleased about this. The old-fashioned idea that politicians can dictate a particular market development and impose a certain technology-specific green transition was one of the reasons why the Liberal Alliance could not initially be part of the current energy settlement. This shift in the approach to energy policy will also be one of the things that the Liberal Alliance is taking along with, which will be very clear in relation to the forthcoming negotiations on a new energy settlement that will reach towards 2030, and hopefully our efforts will also bear fruit. Until then, of course, I welcome the fact that the draft law here guarantees competition between at least two technologies and that we will have more market in energy policy. We will have a full market power through a fixed-price offer and investors will be encouraged to respond to market signals and to maximise the value of the electricity generation that is now to be sold at market prices. And thus it is for the benefit of the Danes and for the benefit of the economy. These are all good liberal initiatives which are helping to break down the planned economic ideas that have been affecting energy policy for decades. In addition, it should be stressed that the agreement also gives priority to the framework for technology development and testing of wind turbines in Denmark, so that Denmark can also in future have the global lead shirt on in technology development, demonstration and testing of mills. This will help to ensure that the Danish wind industry is competitive and will benefit Danish technology exports and jobs. So there's no cow on that ice either. That's why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145003	Thank you, and there is a brief remark from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145008	In that draft law there are also some challenges in relation to experimental mills, and I would really like to hear the rapporteur's view as to whether it has just been resolved, because I agree with the rapporteur that if Denmark is to remain a strong domestic market and a place where industry chooses to produce mills for export to the rest of the world in the future, experimental mills are crucial. The last time I asked the Minister about this, it was not resolved, but when I hear the rapporteur's speech, it sounds as if there are no challenges with experimental mills, so I would like that solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145048	I think I used the expression that there are no cow on the ice. Actually, I don't think there is either. We take this into account, and in other contexts we have also provided for new test sites etc. So I actually think that we are quite well involved in providing the industry, i.e. the wind turbine industry, with good conditions in terms of being able to promote technology development and thus be at the forefront of development and, as I also said, increase technology exports and thus secure jobs in Denmark. So I actually mean, like I said, there's no cow on the ice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145128	If you read the bill, you can see there's a cow on the ice. That is why I am asking the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has any insider knowledge that I do not have in relation to the European Union, and now I am not talking about the experimental mills at Østerild or the experimental mills at Høvsøre. I am talking about the experimental mills which have, of course, been supported, among others. to run and you should have the European Union to extend. This is at least one of the things we are going to ask ourselves in committee for this bill, because it is quite essential for industry to continue to have experimental mills up. Will the Liberal Alliance therefore not share the insider knowledge that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur apparently has in relation to the EU's decision to continue supporting experimental mills?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145211	I think if the Liberal Alliance were to share inside knowledge with someone, it might not be with the SF. It is not because I have any insider knowledge, but it is clear that I will also ask questions, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says, and I will then read the answers from the Ministry very carefully and consider further whether there might be a cow, but then a calf on the ice in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145240	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145248	This debate started with a strange discussion about whether to spend money at all or not putting up renewable energy, and I think that was a little shameful, because of course we should. What it's all about today is the pace. There is not that country in the world, I believe, where renewable energy is not set at all, and if we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and if we are to resolve the climate crisis before it goes wrong, then it is about speed. It's about keeping a high pace, increasing the pace. That is why we also came before Easter with a package which sets out for these energy negotiations that we need to start with, and which have been mentioned several times in the negotiations, where we believe that the pace must be speeded up. The Climate Council has previously mentioned a figure of 700 MW per year we have rounded up to 1,000 MW per year. This bill slows down, both in relation to the grant, but also in relation to the way you do it. You will seek to use a new tender model that provides much less renewable energy for the money. Moreover, there are a large number of consultation responses, not only from environmental organisations, but also from the industry itself, which say that this does not seem well thought out that it does not work out. There will be some imbalances which are unclear about grid connection. All of a sudden, schemes must be put in place to compensate for the trouble of solar cells, and this is equated with the trouble we have with wind turbines. There are quite a lot of other examples in the consultation answers that this system is not properly thought out, so we are very critical of it. As several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is probably not fair to vote against because, after all, renewable energy is coming out of this, and we cannot vote against it. But for us it will probably also be a yellow vote if you will, because we simply think this arrangement is half-finished and has the wrong priorities. It provides far too little renewable energy, both absolute and in relation to money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145519	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145522	Thank you. I will sign up to the rapporteur to mention that the alternative will not actually vote against this proposal. In other words, the logic of a liberal politician such as myself is that, when, as the alternative, we want to force the expansion of renewable energy sources, we do not, of course, vote against a bill which actually extends with renewable energy. However, I can also understand from the rapporteur that in the alternative we want to force a great deal and that we want both to accelerate and to have much more of both one and the other and the third when we talk about the development of renewable energy. But where is the money to come from? What exactly is the alternative thinking as a source of funding for this very powerful expansion of renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145610-2	Yes, it is quite a broad question, but I would like to say that we have tabled proposals for financial legislation both at this round and at the previous round. There you will be able to see that we have expenditure and revenue that goes straight to one another in our overall budget proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145635	So perhaps the rapporteur for the alternative could briefly inform me about the PRS, whether the alternative will actually restore the PRS tax as part of the financing of this much-advanced renewable energy expansion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145655	Yeah, I'd love to. Re-introducing PSP is one thing that we have with us as a proposal in our package that we presented just before Easter, the one called "Good Energy." The PSO believes that we are a very good mechanism in which black energy is paid for green energy, so we have that as a concrete proposal, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145718	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410145729	We have a long debate today on how to organise the green conversion and all the renewable energy we want to put up on land, i.e. solar cells and wind turbines etc. And why is that important? After all, it is both because of climate change and our responsibility to have our entire energy system converted, but it is actually important for Denmark as well. It is a Danish value that we are leading the green transition. This is very important to the Danes. They are very proud that we have led the world, and that is why we must not slow down now. Now that the rest of the world is understanding that renewable energy is the cheapest form of energy there is simply nothing cheaper than wind on land we should not be the country that suddenly begins to shake hands and lower the level of ambition, but then we must keep pace. What we are discussing today is how much money can be spent, and we have always heard a government that has said that we must have as much climate as possible for money, most kilowatt hours for money and so on. etc., and then suddenly you choose a model of support that gives not only a little less for the money, but much less for the money. It just doesn't make any sense. In other words, with the model chosen by the government, it is for those who sit and see it and who may not be experts in support models, they have chosen to provide a fixed price subsidy for a number of years, no matter what the energy price is, and it then amounts to over 1 billion. kr. for around 200-230 MW. That's the model the government has. There they can be absolutely sure that it will cost them at least 1 billion. kr. Then there is another model, which is the one that the entire industry is not just the wind turbine industry, but also, as such, with the support of industry in general in Denmark and for which the whole opposition has advocated, i.e. what is called a CFD Contract for Difference. But it's really just that you have a fixed electricity price or a fixed energy price and what you give in support to the mill or as a guarantee, that is to say to fall the electricity price below this guaranteed price, then they get support from the state. But there's also the reverse in this model, which is that if the electricity price comes over, then there's money in the Treasury. It was there, as we negotiated it, that there was an industry in Denmark that was brave, who took responsibility, and who went out and said: Okay, state, if you have to take responsibility and the risk that it might become more expensive, if the electricity price suddenly falls through the floor, what no one thinks it is doing; the Energy Agency does not have a scenario, as such will seriously make this risky or expensive, then of course you must also have the gains if it goes the other way. And it's not that it's very expensive for the state to take this risk. It's a lot, much cheaper. On the other hand, we have actually made a good investment. If you were an investor, it would probably be a good investment to go in and make this deal. We could then have had 400 MW, almost twice as much wind, and instead of paying 1 billion. kr. You could have gotten 1.5 billion. kr. It is very strange that the government chooses to spend 1 billion. kr. and get 235 MW instead of getting 1 billion. kr. kr. You don't choose to do that, and of course we think that's an expensive and bad way to spend the money. It slows down and costs the whole thing up instead of choosing the other model. Then no solution has been found to popular and local ownership, to the support for these wind turbines. If we are to get them on their feet, it is of course important that people in the neighbourhood can not only gain ownership of them, but that they can also gain some benefits. There we have had this green scheme, which expired in February this year, and instead of finding a new solution to it, we have just closed our eyes to it. This proposal has not solved that either. Then the conditions for test mills in Denmark are seriously reduced. It can therefore risk making Denmark a less attractive place for the wind turbine industry to invest, and with all the jobs associated with this industry in Denmark, it is a little unwise not to give the test mills the best facilities. Now we have just stood and decided that we will give room to new mills in Høvsøre and in Østerild, and we should of course also ensure that the economy is linked to the test mills. So all in all, I have to say from the radical side that the government hasn't hit the dial with this. We can see at this point that there is either no support for renewable energy, or you take the government's little festive model, but we think it is really a pity that right now you miss a huge opportunity to do so much, much cheaper to get much more wind and maybe even get a prize home to the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410150212	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410150222	Surprisingly, the SF agrees with the Social Democracy, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the alternative that we do not get enough renewable energy for the money with the model the government has put forward. We are in SF completely open to using tender. We have also said yes to discussing technology-neutral tenders in this shorter period. But we want as much green change as possible for the money, and we do not do that with the model that the government has created. They have actually transferred the risk to the companies, instead of taking the risk from the Treasury, which means that the green transition will actually be more expensive. It's stupid, and it's a waste of citizens' money. So we cannot vote in favour of the proposal; we will end up voting yellow because we are not rejecting the idea of more renewable energy in Denmark. In addition to the fact that this is a more expensive solution than would have been desirable, there is, of course, also the challenge of the experimental mills, which I mentioned to the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, that is to say the experimental mills outside Høvsøre and Østerild, and we will ask in committee how we can ensure that the industry can continue to set up experimental mills, even though the previous scheme has become illegal by the European Union. Denmark lives among others. of selling renewable energy to the rest of the world, and it would be sad if we could not continue with the experimental mills. Then there are also some of the existing wind turbine projects with which there are challenges, where they have been sought but have not received the funds in time, or have not been fully achieved, and there I think it is essential that individual projects should not be left at such a low cost in relation to the fact that we have a deadline for that, too, I hope that we will be able to clarify this further in the committee process. Last but not least, there is the question of the green scheme. I find it sad that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has dropped the scheme which has actually secured popular support for setting up mills around the country. We have been able to see in concrete terms that we are working on the Fehmarnbelt project, which is a tunnel to Germany, how much it means that citizens have the opportunity to come down to see the project and look at it, that you have a visitor centre, that you have taken some additional initiatives to demystify the process itself. And that is the idea of the green scheme in relation to the mills. The abolition of it was claimed by a rapporteur up here because it had been abolished in the PSO agreement. That is not correct. SF is part of the PSO agreement, and we fought with the Social Democracy and Radical Left precisely to ensure that the green regime was maintained. Nevertheless, those who made the compromise on the offer here have subsequently chosen to say that they are dropping the green scheme, and I find that sad. It is relatively little funding, but funds are important if you want to maintain local support for wind turbine projects, which are quite critical of around the country. If you can do something with relatively little money and thereby also provide local support, it is certainly worth the money. The SF is not going to vote against the proposal; we are going to vote yellow. However, we cannot support the proposal because it is not the cheapest model that has been chosen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410150605	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Orla Østerby as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410150612	Thank you for that, President. Bill L 190 is, in fact, about a transitional arrangement that we are initiating until we have the new energy agreement in place. The starting point is that Denmark must have at least 50%. of the energy needs covered by renewable energy by 2030. That's how everything suggests we're gonna make it. With the intermediate solution that we are making here and now, it is the case that we must continue, but with technology-neutral tenders. It is also the case that we can see that the share of green electricity in Denmark since 2000 has more than tripled. This means that every day 320 more Danes are supplied with green power. This is equivalent to 117,000 Danes a year. By the year 2000, it was 15.9%. of our electricity consumption that was green power. Today, in 2018, we're up to 55%. It is therefore a success that we are now faced with having to extend. The aim must be to continue to develop, inter alia: wind turbines and solar cells. The expansion will help Denmark maintain its global leadership in the green transition. As the aid scheme for wind energy has expired on 21 February of this year and the previous scheme for solar energy has been abolished, a new model of aid for wind and solar energy is needed. The new aid scheme must also reflect the fact that renewable energy is constantly becoming cheaper and more competitive. In fact, we are in the process of a transitional period here in 2018 and 2019, but we can see that in the long run we will have a production of green electricity that will be able to cope with market conditions within a few years. The government therefore agreed with DF in September 2017 a voting agreement on a support model for wind and solar power, which we are now discussing here today. With the technology-neutral offer in 2018 and 2019, we take the first important step away from a firm support system to a market-based approach to support for renewable energy. The bill strengthens conditions for experimental mills in Denmark, so Denmark continues to be a pioneer globally in relation to the testing and development of wind turbines. This ensures that the Danish wind turbine industry remains competitive for the benefit of Danish jobs. We have approx. 30,000 of them, and we have an export of 70 billion. kr., and then we have next to a win for the climate. The bill provides the basis for annual technology-neutral tenders in 2018 and 2019 of solar and wind energy. It is proposed that the guarantee fund be extended to all solar projects meeting the conditions of the scheme. In addition, it is proposed that a special scheme be set up for experimental mills, which are set up within and outside a national test centre. There's 300 million. kr. for experimental mills, of which 200 million. kr. is intended for experimental mills located outside a test centre. The total procurement budget is 829 million. kr. to what we call technology-neutral tenders, and they are allocated to 250 million. kr. in 2018 and 579 million; kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The tender model provides that a ceiling of 13 øre per year has been agreed. kilowatt-hour. We've seen the bills slip in this area before. In connection with the PESO negotiations in 2016, we saw a two-digit billion-dollar budget overrun. We do not want to see this again in the Conservative People's Party. That's why we've chosen this model. We have chosen it because we believe it is the investors who should take the risk, not the taxpayers. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports L 190.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151023	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151026	Thank you. I think the rapporteur has read the answers to the hearings. After all, there are several consultation responses that point out that the model used for supply here will provide much less renewable energy per year. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur believe that the tender model used will provide the most renewable energy for the money and will also do the smart thing, as Mr. Thomas Danielsen of the Left has highlighted this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151112	I will refrain from saying anything other than what this is about, namely that none of us in this Chamber today know what will give the most energy for the money. None of us know that. I can hear that in the red block you are very, very sure about this, but I think you should hold back from that, because only time will show us when we reach 2020 and have to rationalize whether it is the way to get more energy for the money. But I can promise consumers and taxpayers that they will not have to pay the bill if it is the case that something is not going to last and that it will be those who set up the mills and those who will run the mills that will get the bill. And I think it is quite healthy policy that we say that taxpayers should not pay the bill, because we have seen enough of that why we choose the safe model. No one has talked about it today, but it should be borne in mind that this is also an incentive for those who put up the mills to find a place where the wind blows the allerallerlerst. So what I can promise the questioner is that these mills will be set up in the most optimal places, because it will give the most optimal return on the millions you're now putting into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151244	With the model chosen by the government, there is at least a bill of about 1 billion. kr., which is quite firm and which we cannot expect to save on because it is screwed up as it is. Instead, if you lean on the Danish Energy Agency's scenarios, which are supported by international assessments, there is very little chance that using the second model will be so expensive. This means that we can say with quite a lot of certainty that if you use the second model, it will be significantly cheaper, while with the model that the government has chosen, it will surely cost 1 billion. kr. Is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151325	I repeat what I said earlier: nobody in this Chamber can predict how many megawatts we get from one model and the other model. Time will tell us. But one thing is certain, and that is that our finances in what we are doing here will last. We are not going to get a billion-dollar overrun, we are not going to see taxpayers paying for this, but what we are sure is that we are making a model that we can see financially will be linked, and then we will see how many megawatts we get on this model, which the government has now secured a majority for. I understood a little on the Enhedslisten before that it is quite wrong that the Ministry of Finance should be allowed to look at this, but then I just have to say that if we are to continue to have a green energy policy, we also have to look at the money flow, and we have to look at what we are putting billions into this account. We need to see how sensible we are using them and that we do not risk taxpayers' money unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151439	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151442	What I clearly said was that the Ministry of Finance should not decide, but that the majority of parliament should decide. I would like to read out something from the hearing from the Danish Industry. DI calls for the price surcharge to be designed as a variable price surcharge based on a contract for difference model. This will result in lower bids from investors and lower costs for the State. Period. What is relevant here in relation to what the rapporteur says is that the rapporteur says that it will not be more expensive for taxpayers. But it does. After all, even the foot-to-foot government has a vision that we should have at least 50%. renewable energy by 2030. This means that when you make that offer here and get fewer megawatts than if you listen to the players in the industry, you will have to expand with the megawatts at a later stage, and then it will be more expensive for taxpayers. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151539	Thank you. Expensive for taxpayers? Well, it's gonna turn out what this kind of supply is gonna come out of when we get to 2020. I've also spoken to Danish Industry. I have spoken to many from the industry who, for natural reasons, wanted the second model, but from the government's point of view it has been important that we made a model so that we knew where we stood when we were done with these two years, because what we are going to do is look forward to the coming years. What we are facing is, of course, that we can have energy-neutral green energy at zero support crowns in a very short time. That's why it's important that we make this transitional arrangement as a secure arrangement, and then I'm just saying once again: please be aware that these mills will be set up where it blows the most allerallerler, because that gives the allerallerlerest return. So those who come and bid on this will look at the location, and it won't stay in the middle of the country, but that's where they get the wind for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151655	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410151703	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the rapporteurs. The government has set an ambitious target for Denmark to have at least 50% by 2030. of its energy needs covered by renewable energy. Here is the continuing supply of e.g. wind turbines and solar cells one of the key handles to be screwed on to reach the target. At the same time, it will help Denmark maintain its global leadership in the green transition. The aid scheme for wind has expired on 21 February this year and the previous solar aid scheme has been abolished. A new model of support for sun and wind is therefore needed. However, the aid scheme must also reflect the fact that renewable energy is constantly becoming cheaper and cheaper and more and more competitive; we must have a support system that contributes to the long-term viability of renewable energy in terms of market conditions. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, therefore entered into a vote agreement in September on a new model of support for wind and sun in 2018-19. With the upcoming technology-neutral tender in 2018 and 2019 we write energy policy Danish history. We take the first important step away from handheld support schemes and towards a more harmonised and market-based approach to supporting and renewable energy, which will ensure as much green power as possible for Danish consumers. The bill also strengthens the conditions for experimental mills in Denmark, so we maintain Denmark's position as a global pioneer country in relation to the testing and development of wind turbines. This ensures the competitiveness of the Danish wind industry for the benefit of Danish jobs, exports and climate. The draft law creates, among other things: the basis for holding annual technology-neutral tenders in 2018 and 2019, where wind and solar will compete to deliver as much green power as possible for the money. In addition, the draft law provides for an extension of the value loss scheme and the purchase right scheme so that solar cells that gain the right to price surcharges in the technology-neutral tender are included. It is an element in the parallel position of solar cells and wind turbines. In addition, the guarantee fund is proposed to be extended to all solar projects meeting the conditions of the scheme. This should contribute to the harmonisation of the conditions for sun and wind, which will ensure that it is the most effective projects that win. The government wants to maintain and expand Denmark's global leadership in energy testing and development. It is therefore proposed that special arrangements be set up for experimental mills, which are set up within and outside the national test centres. In addition, it is very important to the government that there are no project developers who, in part, risk being caught up in the transition from one support regime to another. That is why we are proposing the establishment of a transitional regime for agricultural mills and a special scheme for small-scale rural wind farms. The draft law also amends an authorisation to lay down rules on the network connection of wind turbines and solar cells to the collective electricity network at the level of notification. In this area, it is also the Government's ambition to ensure increased marketisation and harmonisation across technologies, which will ensure cost-effective expansion of renewable energy sources. The bill will come into force on 1 July. However, a number of the provisions will not enter into force until the European Commission has approved the aid schemes. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law here today, and I look forward to continuing discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I would ask for a favourable treatment of the bill here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152120	Thank you, and there are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152127	Thank you. After all, the minister and the government are very concerned about technology neutrality, and with this offer you want to try to see how far you can draw it. But there are at least two things here that do not look very neutral. One is that we do not have the same conditions for grid connection for solar and for wind, and the other is that we are now going to introduce a system of value losses, as we know from wind turbines, even on solar cells, although there are clearly fewer nuisances, less severe genes in solar installations. What is the Minister's view of these inequalities, and how can this become technology-neutral?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152211	Thank you for the question. It is, in fact, an issue on which I, as a minister, am rather concerned, and therefore it has been absolutely essential for the government to ensure that there are as equal conditions as it is possible to do when different technologies are involved, and that is why there are a number of the different arrangements here which have now been addressed, so that there is as equal a competitive basis as possible to offer this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152237-2	Yeah, as much as possible. It sounds to me when I read the answers to the hearings as if they have not come very far. That is to say, there's so on me it seems like you're not ready. But I would also really like to hear from the Minister why the Minister believes that in most other places the second tender model with feed-in tariffs is chosen instead of the one chosen by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152307	Thank you again for the question. We've done as well as we could. We want to create a competition between solar and wind energy to ensure that we get as much expansion as possible for the least possible tax dollars. Why other countries have chosen other ways of doing so, I will safely leave it to other countries to express their views. The crucial thing for us has been that we have seen that there has been a large budget deficit, one might say. It cost quite a lot of money with the second model, and we saw how the PSO costs escalated very, very strongly, and it was difficult to control the costs. For us, it is absolutely crucial that we have a model in which we ensure maximum security for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152348	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152356	After all, this is a matter in which the opposition gives the government the yellow card, and there are many good reasons for this. I would like to hear from the Minister about these conditions for grid connection. Is it true that guidelines on the supply have not yet been published, including rules on how wind turbines and solar cells can be connected to the collective electricity network? I think it is very important that we do not end up in a situation where a legislative proposal is adopted so late that the rules that should apply are not clear, so that those who have to bid for what they can offer of solutions are not aware of what it is for a network connection and what it is for some costs associated with the network connection. Can the Minister guarantee that it will soon be in place so that those who have to bid know what conditions apply?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152443	Thank you for the question. I can guarantee the questioner that we are working hard to get this in place so that those who enter this invitation to tender know what they are going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152457	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152459	Then there is another aspect. The consultations have expressed the wish that the industry should be involved in the evaluation which should naturally be carried out if it is the case that you want to make a call for tenders that are similar to this, or perhaps a tender that has been substantially changed. The answer is as follows: "It is noted in this context that the industry wants to be involved. Yeah, you've taken note of that. Could the Minister not guarantee that the industry will be involved and not just that it has noted that the industry wants to be involved? I think it would be good to get it right here at the first reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152538	Thank you for the question. I would say that I am in continuous dialogue with all parts of the energy industry, including the wind turbine industry and all the other stakeholders that could be interesting in this context. If I am a minister at that time, I will naturally sit down and also involve them and discuss with them what has been the tender.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152602	I thank the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152624	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Magnus Heunicke as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152641	Thank you, President. This bill's purpose is to create a better opportunity for those who want to leave the biker gang environment. There should be no risk of behaving properly, it should be safe to start over. The proposal is the implementation of the political agreement called gang package III, of which we Social Democrats are part. That is why we are pleased that the draft law here extends the possibility of special address protection to particularly threatened witnesses in criminal proceedings. It is the case that if no one dares testify, no one will be convicted, and then we can't get this thing upset. And in the Social Democratic Party, we would like to make it easy and safe for the brave citizens who dare stand up in court and testify to rocker-gang crime. The bill is therefore a good continuation of our desire for a witness package tailored to victims of gang crime. There should be no doubt that the criminal acts of the biker gang environment are something in which society cannot look the other way. We think this bill is a good place to start, because it ensures that victims and key witnesses can get out of this environment. And in those words, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152827	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur, and the next in line is Mrs Susanne Eilersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410152832	Thank you for that, President. Unfortunately, I am not as tall as the previous rapporteur, so we need to turn this down a little bit. This bill is, of course, about extending the circle of citizens who can be given special address protection. As a starting point, there is thought of exit programmes for people who want to get out of the rocker gang environment, but also a protection of witnesses who have to testify in court cases where they may feel threatened. In addition, we also want to extend the circle of people who are harassed, persecuted or stalked, and this is not about people with conflicts of honour or cohabitation. In order to ensure effective protection for the very person at risk, this bill also provides for the possibility that the protection should cover his or her own children and his or her spouse or partner and his or her children, all of whom have the same place of residence as the person required to have the special address protection. At first glance, it makes very good sense, as it is important that we work to motivate more gang members to leave the gang environment, just as it is also important that we get people to testify, even if they may be threatened afterwards, and that we must protect people from harassment, persecution and stalking. With this bill, we are, after all, expanding the circle of people who can come under special address protection. We must then make sure that we do not hit other groups of people or that other groups of people are caught. There I am thinking of the parenthood of children who, according to the new law, come under special protection. With the many new family patterns we have today, we must be sure that we do not affect or deprive parents of custody of their children or association with the child, just as we must take care of the child's best interests. Even when we talk about sexual intercourse and its children, it is suddenly a large circle of relatives of a child who may be affected by this special protection. As far as I'm concerned, it's a little fuzzy in the bill whether there's any parents or any kids who can get into trouble with this protection and these rules. That is why, at least, I would very much like to ask some follow-up questions during the committee procedure, so that we are sure that we will not enter this power. But otherwise we in the Danish People's Party are incredibly positive about the proposal, and I look forward to the further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153120	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next in line is mr. Carl Holst as rapporteur for the Liberal Party of Denmark) • Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153130	Thank you. The Left can support the proposal in line with what the two previous rapporteurs have said. After all, it is also a proposal which follows directly on from gang package III. That is why people who are being persecuted are being harassed in witnessing, in being a citizen, in saying 'no', must be protected. This is already the case today, and that circle is expanding. It is clearly pointed out that it must be done with care; that there are concerns about that concern, in that it is not easy to live in a society where you do not have a CPR number. All in all, we are doing this for those people who experience that, as citizens of society, they find it difficult to act as law-abiding citizens who have a desire to testify against those who do not want this society well. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153249	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next in line is Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Pernille Skipper Denmark's Liberal Party). There you go, laughter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153258	Thank you. I'd like to challenge sir. Carl Holst on who are the most liberal in reality it is a different debate. This time I just want to pay tribute to the government for a very good bill. Well, maybe we could look a little inwards for all of us and say, "Why haven't we done this before?" It is a proposal that other rapporteurs up here have also said offers some opportunities to protect some people who clearly need to be protected. Those are some people who testify in criminal proceedings with sometimes, unfortunately, life as an effort. These are some people who will leave deep criminal environments and, unfortunately, we have recently seen what can be the result when some try to leave the rocker gang environment it can be really, really dangerous. So, of course, as a society, we must protect those people. I also think that the wording that it should never be dangerous to behave properly is very, very telling, so praise for it. The bill is also about people who are subjected to stalking, and I would like to raise a small flag in relation to those people. There's probably something else we need and more than what we can deliver with this bill. One of the things experts say about stalking victims is that if you change the routines and make it harder to set up a daily life, you will actually almost run the stalker's errand, because that's what a stalker can do. That's where it affects the psyche, because you're not able to make a everyday life work when someone's constantly disturbing. That is why there are also some consultation answers where we have been a little concerned about what this will mean and which have at least pointed out that it cannot stand alone, and also that unfortunately we have an infinitely small use of other tools, which are, to protect people who are subjected to stalking, among other things. restraining order and immediate restraining order. This testifies to the fact that we may have an up-skilling effort to make with the police, at least a task to be solved, to define what it is actually for some actions that constitute stalking. We will try to ask some questions about this either in connection with this bill or in other contexts to see if we can go a little further. But at least support from the Enhedslisten side for a good bill, a necessary bill from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153549	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And the next is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. The Liberal Party of Denmark!). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153558	It's become really modern to be liberal. It's really good. The best thing that can happen to a biker must be for him to stop being a biker... it's also pretty good for society. The fact that the proposal here provides better protection for people at risk who are part of an exit programme, from the biker and gang environments, is therefore very positive. It is a key element of the gang package that the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party concluded last year that you can be helped off the streets as part of the biker and gang environment. Those who choose to leave the biker and gang environment must, of course, ensure the greatest possible security and security in that process. The police are given a tool here to ensure that security and security by being able to provide special address protection to people threatened by their exit program. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that this is a good tool, which hopefully will result in more bikers stopping being bikers, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153714	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we've come to sir. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153721	Denmark's Green Party! Thank you, President. The alternative would like to help ensure special address protection for people exposed to threats when they are part of an exit programme initiated by the authorities to get out of biker and gang crime. And we would also like to ensure special protection for particularly threatened witnesses in criminal proceedings and victims of stalking, harassment or persecution. The guarantee is that the persons concerned may be without permanent residence in the CPR register, so that their address becomes known to as few persons as possible. We think that is wise. The alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153808	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. And then we move on to the next one, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153825	Thank you. As a society, we must do our very best to protect people who have reason to feel insecure and if that means keeping the people's address secret, then we must do so. We already have the opportunity for address protection today, and with this proposal we are expanding the circle of citizens who can benefit from address protection. For anyone who wants to give up a life of crime, threats should certainly not be an obstacle, so it is my hope that the proposal can provide people with the security that is a prerequisite for a good life despite threats. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153915	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410153921	Thank you. In 2017, the government entered into an agreement with the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party on gang package III, "Bander behind bars." We agreed to strengthen the fight against gang crime in a number of areas. First of all, the focus is on hitting the gang environment hard through punishment for crimes involving firearms, and we have decided to tighten the conditions for imprisoned gang members so that they cannot continue their criminal activities while they are in prison. Secondly, we have introduced a number of measures to improve the safety of ordinary Danes and victims of gang crime. We have improved the possibility for municipalities to impose bans on bikers in certain buildings, and we have provided better witness protection for victims in gang-related cases. They are all very important measures. If we're gonna get rid of hard-boiled gangs, we're gonna have to get tough. Having said that, it is also very important that there are good conditions for getting out of the gang environment and being resocialised, on the one hand, an iron fist, and, on the other hand, a helping handshake. That is why we also agreed with the gang package that you can return your firearms without penalty and that there must be a good opportunity for address protection if you participate in an exit programme. Address protection is what we are dealing with today. We extend the scope of special address protection to persons participating in exit programmes, their children and their girlfriends. When you leave the gang environment, you should also have the opportunity to bring your family with you. We want to put an end to the gangs, the hard-boiled ones behind bars, and those who want to leave the environment must be given a good opportunity to do so. All in all, these are sensible measures that the Conservative People's Party supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410154133	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then the trip has come to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410154138	After all, it is very encouraging with the handling of this matter and, in particular, the opening competition between the parties to be the most liberal. After all, I am thinking of Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's accusation against the alternative of being neoliberal. I've never quite understood what that means. I know what classical liberal means, and I assume that is what the fight was about. Enough about that. Thank you for the incredibly many positive comments from the Danish Parliament. Now there was no rapporteur from the Radical Left, so I dare not say in advance that it was a unanimous Parliament that supported the bill, but I hope that is where we will end up. The draft law proposes an extension of the existing special address protection scheme in the CPR, which applies only to persons who are subject to threats in connection with honour or cohabitation-related conflicts. The draft law is the implementation of Initiative No. 21 in "Band Package III" • Gangs behind bars, which the government entered into with the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. Against this background, it is proposed that the applicable protection scheme be extended to persons included in an exit programme initiated by the authorities due to their association with biker or gang environments. In addition, the bill is based on the experience of the National Police, which has shown that the possibility of special address protection is a suitable tool for personal protection in cases where the vulnerable person is particularly threatened. It is therefore proposed that the scheme should be extended to particularly threatened witnesses in criminal proceedings, as well as victims of harassment, persecution or stalking, which are not related to honour or cohabitation-related conflicts, because they are therefore already covered by the current legislation. I think the draft law is a step in the right direction in terms of ensuring personal protection for people that we know need it. In addition, the bill forms part of the government's action towards bikers and gangs. Then the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party made a comment on this with parents and children. There has also been an attempt to make a number of comments on this, but I would like to try to clarify it a little. It is of course the case that protection in some cases relating to the implementation of special address protection has been or is being considered as a result of personal threats in relation to co-life-related conflicts. There it is, then, that it has been estimated that there may be a need to protect the child or children as well. In such cases, it may be necessary for the police, in considering the implementation of special address protection, to take this issue into account and therefore also to consider whether it is necessary, in accordance with the general rules, to do something in relation to the abolition of joint custody over the minor child, to be subject to such address protection. These are, of course, extremely unfortunate family tragedies, and it has to be said that it may be that the personal threats to which one parent has exposed the other parent, and hence also the child, have consequences. The legislation itself in this area is not being changed and, moreover, it is still in the area of the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. If there is any need for further comments on this, I would just like to say that some written questions have to be asked, and we will of course answer them to the extent that we are able to do so. So just a comment on Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who mentioned the question that one might risk going the errand of the stalker. I know that it has to be understood indirectly because one makes some protection that changes the way in which the victim has to live his life: I think that is a dilemma which it is difficult to overcome altogether, but one must of course do so as far as possible. To the extent that it is a matter of police action, as I understood it was said by the questioner, this is an issue which needs to be discussed with the Minister for Justice. Otherwise, I would just like to thank you for not only the competition for the Liberals and for the praise from the Enhedslisten, but also for the very broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410154557	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410154620	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410154635	Thank you for the floor. This is the first of three motions for resolutions that we will be discussing this afternoon and, as I read and understand it, the purpose of the resolution here is to ensure a more diverse system of art support and also to ensure that there is greater popular support. In concrete terms, the proposal is that we should abolish the State Arts Foundation, as we know it today, and instead six regional art funds should be set up. So this is not an economic issue. This is an organisational issue, as I understand it. The funds are then proposed to be allocated a percentage of the current funds by population, and the six funds will then cover North Jutland, Central Jutland, South Jutland, Funen, Zealand with Bornholm and then the capital. The six foundations are also proposed that each should have selections in the fields of music, literature, visual arts, crafts and design as well as performing arts, but not a selection for film and architecture, as the Statens Kunstfond has today. The Danish People's Party also proposes that the rules on the new regional art funds should enter into force in 2021. I would like to begin my own comments by saying that many of the intentions that the Danish People's Party is putting forward here, namely to ensure that art support benefits all citizens in Denmark and that we must ensure that there is also popular support for our art support system, I can easily follow a long way along the road. It is, in fact, my view that it is very, very important that the art support system really reflects the diversity of society and, above all, the spread throughout the country. In fact, the fact that art grants cover the country geographically is also one of the criteria that the Danish Arts Foundation is supposed to apply. With a view to the importance of the geographical spread of aid, we have, in fact, also set aside funds in the most recent Finance Act, although not many, but even funds for the creation of two new regional art funds. The two new regional art funds will cover Jutland and the Islands, and the idea is precisely that we should have some experience of what can happen when you make such two art funds not as a direct parallel, but nevertheless as something similar to what we have done with the regional film funds. The two regional art funds are currently being set up, and they should be very much in operation later this year. Of course, the two foundations that are being set up cannot be compared to the significant step that the resolution would take here, but it is therefore my intention that the two regional art funds should involve local forces in cultural policy in regions and municipalities, but also very much like to ensure that more private funds can be raised. And then it is my intention that they should have a focus on a different form of support than that given today by the Danish Arts Foundation. They must focus on the part of art life that can become a business, including for the artist. I regard the two new funds as an experiment and as a space of experience and therefore want us to take stock of the experience that comes out of the two regional art funds before we embark on a further debate. So, the debate can always take place, but I do not want to support the full regionalisation of art grants on the current basis. Nor do I want to hide my concern about the administrative costs that will be associated with the creation of the six regional art foundations of the proposal in the form it is here, because each of the six regional art foundations will have to have committees for five arts. So I could have a strong concern that this would lead to much higher costs for the administration of artificial support funds than the costs that we have today. I find it very difficult to imagine that savings in rent costs for the current Danish Arts Foundation could cover the increased administrative costs, which must be assumed to include both rent and secretarial services for six foundations, each with a large number of committees. The Danish Arts Foundation is only a small part of the rent in the Danish administration today at Hans Christian Andersen's Boulevard, which contains all the other functions of Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen. As you know, the art support is covered by two political agreements, both of which were concluded in 2012: a broad agreement on the tasks and structure of the Danish Arts Foundation, of which all the parties of the Danish Parliament at the time were part, and an agreement on the services of honour, of which the proposers' party, the Danish People's Party, chose not to be a part. This also means that the implementation of changes such as those contained in the proposal here must, in any case, be supported by the circle of agreements. In the autumn, therefore, I would like to call the circles of agreement for a wide-ranging discussion in general to see whether there is a need for changes in the support of art, as we know it today, and I would suggest that we also include the ideas contained in the proposal here in the debate. Against this background, I must inform you that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155240	Thank you. There is a brief comment from the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155245	Thank you. It was a slightly cautious but also slightly open minister, as I hear the Minister's speech, and of course I accept that. I have a question, though. The government wants a Denmark in balance, and this must also apply in the field of culture and art and especially in the field of art support. But here we do not want to regionalise, to decentralise, but to keep the highly centralised art support model, which is based in Copenhagen. How does this relate to the government's desire for a better balance between Denmark and Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155333	I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Alex Ahrendtsen, that we are actually taking steps, albeit small, in the direction proposed by the motion for a resolution here, in that we have already set aside funds in last year's Finance Act to set up two small regional funds, not with the same structure, not with the same complexity and certainly not with the same economy as the proposal here, but precisely to see whether we can do something different and better, so that we have a better balance than that which we may have today. So we are looking in the same direction as the motion tabled by the motion for a resolution here, but we are not prepared to take such a drastic step as Mr Giscard d'Estaing's. Alex Ahrendtsen and the proposers are going to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155424	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155425	I am, of course, pleased that the Minister will convene discussions on this in the autumn, and there I hope that the rapporteurs of the other parties will be as open as the minister is. My question concerns the two regional funds which the Danish People's Party in the Finance Act supports. If it turns out that they are a success, then the Minister will help to increase regionalisation, as we do, among other things. has proposed in our motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155456-2	We are completely open to that. I think, however, that, for the sake of good order, I should say that what lies in the Danish Arts Foundation today covers much more and more than what is going to be in the two small regional art foundations that we are setting up now, because in the new track we are laying out here, we attach a great deal of importance to ensuring that we can also become financially self-sustaining as an artist, in relation to what we can seek support for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155525	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155529	Thank you. I have two questions, and that is just to be able to fully understand what the Minister is saying. The Minister says that she is taking small steps in the direction that the proposers want. Does this mean that although it is an experiment, it is in the direction that the Minister would like to go about this regionalisation of Danish art and culture support? The second question is that the Minister said that in the autumn she was going to call the conciliation circle behind the National Arts Foundation for discussions where one should look at it. If there is to be a new settlement on the Danish Arts Foundation, will the Minister do so widely in the Danish Parliament, or will it be with the old conciliation circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155611	To take the last point first: I have simply not taken a position on that at this stage. As far as the first question about regionalisation is concerned, my perspective, regardless of what I am working on in this area, is to start with the citizens and not the institutions. In other words, when the goal is that art and culture should be available throughout the country and there I think that a broad circle of parties in the Danish Parliament actually agree with the Danish People's Party; of course I should not be able to say it, but I read it in this way and if we do so from a citizen's perspective, we must also constantly reform either through large or small reforms, so that we can ensure it. And that means that an organizational structure that has been established at one time is not necessarily the best organisational structure at another time. That is why we have chosen to say that we are not thinking of the Danish Arts Foundation one hundred per cent from the start, but since there is actually very good experience with the two small regional film funds which can raise more funds, engage local communities, create legitimacy, etc., we would like to see whether we can do so by moving a small part of the resources that are currently in the Danish Arts Fund into two small regional funds. But how direction of development, pace, etc. I can only say that, when we look a little further forward, I can only say that we have had some experience with the two small new regional art funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155742	With regard to the issue of the conciliation circle, I would just like to call on the Minister of Culture to choose to convene a wide-ranging meeting if new agreements are to be made on our Danish art support. To the last point raised by the Minister, I would like to say: yes, of course it has to go all over the country, but the focus must also be on how we get the art out throughout the country, and not just where we make decisions about it. It is about getting the art at the centre, how we get it out to the citizens, how we make sure that there is a living art life throughout Denmark, and how there can be artists working. It is just important to have the perspective that it is not about where the decision is made, but where the art exists in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155820	I fully agree with that, but as far as regional film foundations are concerned, we have to note that, because they are located regionally, it has actually been possible to raise funds which would hardly otherwise have been raised, and it has been possible to engage local communities, businesses, educational institutions and so on. in a new way, which I find exciting and which I think goes new ways. But even if we have had good experience there, that doesn't mean we have to shut down the DFI. It's about getting the cake bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155854	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. Then I give the floor to Mr. Orla Sea as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410155900	Thank you for that, President. With the proposal, the proposers, the Danish People's Party, will require the government to submit proposals to abolish the Danish Arts Foundation and instead to set up six regional art foundations. I must say that it is important for the Social Democratic Party that we constantly reflect on how we ensure and support the Danes' access to art and culture, preferably of the highest quality, wherever you live. In this context, the Danish Arts Foundation plays an important role in promoting art and culture throughout Denmark. The Kunstfonden's awards are based on professional assessments and thus focus on artistic quality. In 2013, the then government, with broad support, carried out a reform of the State Arts Fund, with the aim of creating a higher degree of transparency in support systems. Our appeal to the proposal now being put forward by the Danish People's Party is that this is going in exactly the opposite direction. This does not create clarity and transparency, and it creates further bureaucracy. On the same ball street as the Minister has now described it, I would say that it is a difficult path to embark on spending money on increased bureaucracy and less transparency. So for these reasons we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. That does not mean, however, that we are not open to discussing how we can ensure more that the whole country gets, if I may say so, a share in the cake that can be bigger, I could hear. I looked through the nominations for the National Arts Foundation, which took place here not long ago, and I have to say that if I look at where the representatives come from, there is a worrying degree of unity in it. I do not think there is a very large geographical spread among those designated for it. The Danish People's Party could have highlighted this as well. I would like to take part in that discussion. Nor is it very precisely described how one wants to have regional influence, and it seems a little strange at a time when it seems that there is a proposal that a different regional size, namely the regional business service, should obviously be placed under the responsibility of the State. So it's a discussion that's • let's say "wrong" what the Danish People's Party is up to in this play. So we think it is on a somewhat incomplete basis that the resolution is presented and we do not like to create additional bureaucracy and lack of transparency. That is why we reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160220	There are questions. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160223	Isn't the answer rather that Social Democracy is the man of culture and especially the man of culture in the capital? One would like to say that one wants a Denmark in balance, but as soon as we get to the culture and Kunstelite in the capital, it is protected in Class A. This proposal, which is based on an overall project from the Danish People's Party, has been worked through, it is visionary, and you have actually seen nothing like it since 1964. What the Socialists are doing is hiding behind an argument that it is bureaucratic. It is not bureaucratic, it is very simple. You take six regional funds and then you give responsibility to either the regions or the municipalities, and that is something you can participate in. So isn't it just because the Social Democrats are the man of culture in the capital? Otherwise, this proposal would have been supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160330	I would very much like to refuse to accept that title. I am by no means a representative of the cultural park; I am a representative of a party that wants art and culture to be accessible throughout our country. I myself have contributed to the fact that in the region where I was active in the past, we allocated funds in the building sums to ensure that art and culture came into the construction works that were set up for the various purposes that were there. So I thought there was a good spiral going on. In the meantime, various political groupings have arranged to cut the municipal economy so that there is no money to do such exciting things that help to give art and culture a place in the daily lives of a great many people. So I would like to reject that title and should Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has now taken part in the discussion that was around 1964, I am sure and it is not 1864, it is 1964 that the Danish People's Party would have set itself a place where they had refused to establish the Danish Arts Foundation. Because what would you do with something like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160448	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160448-2	Another thing I attached myself to in Mr. Orla Hav's speech was the nominations. It is quite true that there is an alignment and that there is a surplus of people based on the capital of the various committees. And that is precisely an argument for us to put an end to this centralized state art model and then create six regional ones, because then we avoid exactly what Mr. Orla Hav has pointed to this alignment and this focus on the capital when it comes to the appointment of members. So why on earth are we not voting for this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160528	I've already explained, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, why we are not voting in favour, and that is because of the lack of transparency and increased bureaucracy. When I would have liked to have had a hand in looking at the appointment, it is because I know that the Danish People's Party sits quite close to the government, and the Danish People's Party had the opportunity to raise it as a problem, if it was found that there was too much one-sidedness in the geography of the appointed ones, but that discussion did not raise the Danish People's Party, and then I have to say that then the Danish People's Party wanted another way of discussing it. But I think the discussion about the appointments would have been more relevant to take up and have more impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160613	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Britt Baker as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160622	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here envisages replacing the Danish Arts Foundation with six regional art funds in all regions. The proposal comes as part of the Danish People's Party's proposal for a major reform of the Danish Arts Foundation in 2018. There are many relevant perspectives in this proposal. I fully agree that we need to tighten up the rules for the distribution of funds from the Art Fund. We in the Left have also withdrawn this in the past. I also share the desire to strengthen art in every way throughout Denmark. We need much more art and culture in the rest of the country. However, I doubt whether we will get more art and culture for the money by replacing the Danish Arts Foundation with six regional funds. We need to have a thorough discussion on this in the rapporteur's circle before we take a decision. We also need to discuss the overall economy. Will this be an expensive charge? Will too much money go to administration? Will there be too much bureaucracy so that there are unintended links in? That is why I am very much looking forward to following the Minister's work in the autumn, when we will have the opportunity to look at the field of art support. With the forthcoming discussions in the autumn, the Left does not support the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party at this stage. We support the intention and we support the fact that we are having a thorough discussion on art this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160814	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160815	It was a cautious rapporteur, though cautiously open. There is one thing, however, that puzzles me. The left, together with the Danish People's Party, has been the banner leader of a Denmark in better balance. I am surprised that the rapporteur of the Left is not much more open to regionalising, decentralizing cultural support. The left is not in the same way as the Social Democrats are part of the parnasse in the capital. Therefore one should say much more openly: you are actually right, the Danish People's Party. We have to break up the Art Foundation, and then let us look at it seriously this autumn. So why on earth does the rapporteur not follow up on the government's proposal for a better balance of Denmark when it comes to cultural and art support?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160908	In fact, I think that in my speech I made a great deal of effort to meet the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and stress that we in the Left are very much in agreement with the intention, because we are. And we also very much agree that exactly the State Arts Foundation needs a check-up. That is why I look forward to having this debate this autumn. I'm really looking forward to dive into and see what opportunities there are. Is there any chance of getting the art spread out even more than it is today? But we must take this discussion seriously and properly, and we must give it a 360-degree review when we start.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160947	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410160947-2	I really thought that was very nice to hear, because it was so clear that even I could understand it. My question then is whether the rapporteur will help us to get an analysis of the Danish People's Party's model and also whether it will increase bureaucracy, what I do not think it will do. On the contrary, I think it will do less. But will the rapporteur help us to analyse the Danish People's Party's proposal for six regional art foundations?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161021	For now, I want to keep open what model we have to adopt. I do, because I am part of a government party, and I would like to see what the Minister is playing with. I think that what the Danish People's Party has played out with is sensible, and I think we should take it into account in our thorough discussion. But I would also like to remain open to what else comes of opportunity. And then, when we see what is on the table, we have to decide which option is the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161048	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161055	Thank you, President. I understand that a party which does not sit in government and therefore does not have the whole of the office at its disposal may have difficulties in working through its proposals in detail. I therefore also understand that such a proposal can be a long way from being a declaration of intent. I can therefore also fully understand it if the Danish People's Party, with this proposal, would oblige the government to investigate the appropriateness of abolishing the Danish Arts Foundation and replacing it with six regional art foundations. But that is not the proposal we are debating here today. It is a proposal to require the government to submit a proposal for the decommissioning of the State Arts Foundation and instead to set up six regional art funds. What, then, is the argument? Yeah, you look for that for a long time. It appears from the text that over the years the State's art support system has been accused of unpopularity and indulgence. I quote again: been accused of. So, one thing is that the Danish People's Party in its comments on its proposals does not document that accusation, but what is worse is that it does not try to argue with a single word that the accusation is correct either in the proposal in the comments or in the material prepared by the Danish People's Party as a basis, namely the leaflet that has been circulated. Nothing! I think that's a little thin. Then it would have been better to have gone down a little and contented with an invitation to the government to produce some material. The fact that a number of the most obvious counter-questions to the proposal are completely unanswered does not make it any less thin. Why should it, for example? to move the funds closer to those who are going to have the money? Where's the logic right there? The closer you are to those who need the money, the less food we have. And why should it in itself be better to set up the scheme in the regions? Is it the experience of the hospital system that has led the Danish People's Party to that conclusion? The answer blows completely in the wind. And why should art support become more popular because one or more participants in the new funds are found by drawing lots among interested citizens and then it says with documented knowledge of culture? Who else will decide who has a proven knowledge of culture? Who is it? That is not clear from the proposal. Is it at all times the political majority in the Regional Council, except, of course, on Funen, where it is probably a municipality that has to deal with it? Funen is not a region, but is still separated from this proposal as an independent place. I don't know if that's linked to the fact that it's there, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has been chosen. Because if it is the Regional Council and the political majority that have to decide this sort of thing, I can guarantee that it will be as well as the innovation, let alone debate-making art. But that may also be the point of the proposal. In the Enhedslisten we are very willing to discuss how we organise the art support system, but this will have to be done on the basis of a minimum of concrete facts and concrete considerations. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161451	There is one comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161455	What a flood of capital prejudices about the country outside the capital. That was very interesting to hear, though. The rapporteur is asking for facts. Is the rapporteur not aware of the P3 afternoon study of how easy and how difficult it is to get an application approved in the Statens Kunstfond? It turns out that the better you know the committee members who sit on the respective committees of the Art Foundation, the easier it is to have their application approved. It's basically the only material and the only documentation we have on food, because it's so hard to document, but there's that study. Does that prompt the rapporteur to perhaps change a little in his speech now that there is evidence of that indulgence in the capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161557-2	Not at all, because what is exactly the strange thing about it is that the problem is that there may indeed be some problems in being too close to those who are going to have the money, by bringing those who are going to distribute the money even closer to those who are going to have it. They're gonna live together. It will be the voters. So that doesn't make me change my mind at all. So for the capital thing: Now it's not that long ago, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, that we dealt with some proposals from the Enhedslisten, which dealt with how we beat culture all the way out into the outermost dunes, provided the opportunity for artistic performance, provided the opportunity for grants for people to choose for themselves what culture they want. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen may now be able to answer how the Danish People's Party put itself on the proposal to bring culture right into the province to those who wanted to make use of it and who carried it out themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161656	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161659	It is very difficult to understand how this proposal for regionalisation can lead to a conclusion that you will get even closer to those who need it. On the contrary, the majority of artists live in Copenhagen, and most of those who sit in the committees of the State Arts Foundation are artists, and many of them also live in the capital. So by regionalising it we will create diversity and we will also create a distance from the environment in Copenhagen, and at the same time we will also ensure that there is a more mixed composition of committees. Is not what we are proposing, however, a good idea that benefits Denmark and benefits the art support system?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161749	No, it is of no use at all for anything but for those many people who now have to sit and have some kind of remuneration or have to sit at some meetings and be transported back and forth and get their taxi bills paid, and for those who have to rent rooms for these purposes. They're the only ones it's good for. It has nothing to do with real regionalisation. Well, we can easily discuss whether the Danish Arts Foundation should move to Aarhus or to Aalborg or somewhere else.I have no problem with that, so it has nothing to do with it.But if there is an idea in regionalisation, it should be that you dealt with applications from artists in the local area, in the region where you were. If that is not the intention, there is absolutely no point in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161833	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410161845	Thank you for that, President. It is, of course, the case with motions for resolutions that there are, as it were, two options. Either you can find a majority and then you can get it adopted, or you can influence and reverse the mood, or you can draw attention to a problem for which there may still be a way out. I have noted that the Minister for Culture has announced that this should be looked at, and this can be seen here, so I am quite happy with that. Because in the Liberal Alliance we have also looked at the policy areas that we think need a review or an adjustment or whatever it might be. That is why I would just like to support the Danish People's Party in saying that it is not certain that the exercise being proposed here will be more expensive, because the system we have today is just expensive. Over 0.5 billion is distributed. kr., you have costs of 8.5 million. kr. at fees, and if you go in and look at the table, you can actually see that there are board fees in this series of committees in the Kunstfonden, which is as high as 20,000 DKK. and 30,000 kroner. per meeting per meeting per meeting per meeting per meeting per meeting per meeting per meeting per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per person per I hope that they really do have a lot of preparation and that these are full-day meetings and things like that. So there's for me to see a lot of consumption in this area, and you just see that by looking at the cost of the schedule. Therefore, it may well be that you can make changes without necessarily having to become more expensive. I do not think we can just say that it is absolutely certain that it will be both bureaucratic and more expensive. But now I've just mentioned how I see the opportunity to get this looked at in the seams and make adjustments. Whether it should be regionalisation or not, we have not dealt with it at this stage at all, and therefore I cannot give a commitment to it either. It would probably also seem a little surprising if I were to stand here and give an undertaking that we would support the motion for a resolution in the wake of the speech made by the Minister, which would perhaps give some attention. So I will not do that and say that I think it is a very good thing that this issue is being highlighted and that we will then have a look at it, in fact, at the series of proposals, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen is in charge of today, and as I would almost think we will get the same message, that is to say that we need to see it. That's why it's really nice to throw light on it. So with the two possibilities in the motion for a resolution, it is within reach to draw attention to it so that it is not adopted as far as I can see. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162126	Thank you. So far, there are two who have asked for short remarks... no, one disappeared from my screen. It was because the technique was faster than I was. The first is sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162137	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen is developing into a master of yes-like rejections of resolutions, and this is not so much a question, but more of a comment: I just want to thank Mr Leif Mikkelsen. Leif Mikkelsen, just as I would, of course, like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Britt Baker, for the commitment that something should be done, that we should look at it, but that we cannot, of course, take a position on it when the government has rejected it. I look forward to the discussions in the autumn. I also hope that the Minister will listen to his two rapporteurs, who have said very clearly that we need to do something. So that is just a thank you to both rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162215	Yes, and of course we'll talk to the minister about it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162221	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen? No. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162226	Thank you. Now Mr. Leif Mikkelsen will discuss what committee members like to receive on a fee and how much money is spent on it. So it's really just a call for Mr. Leif Mikkelsen looks at the number of applications and may try to meet with some of these committee members and see which applications they are going through and how much material they have to decide to sit at a very short meeting and decide on it here. I can tell you that I have contacted these committee members and board members to find out how and how the work is related. And it is a fantastic task that is being solved by some performing and creative artists to the delight of the whole of Denmark. So it is actually mostly a call to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162311	In fact, I said that I very much hope that there is a lot of preparation and that it is a rather long meeting to achieve this. Because I just note that when I look at the table, it is exactly the figures I have mentioned that are part of the real world. And in my view it is a high fee to get for a meeting, if there is not much preparatory work, much basis, I just want to say. That is all I wanted to mention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162338	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162356	Thank you. The comments of this motion for a resolution start with the fact that it was created, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned, on the basis of a debate and some accusations. I just have to say that I am quite puzzled when I look at this proposal that it is not based on how we get art throughout Denmark, how we create the possibilities of art throughout Denmark. Because when you look at the grants of the Danish Arts Foundation, you can see very clearly in the figures that you live in the Region of North Jutland, you have much more chance of having your application accepted than if you live in the metropolitan area. And that is precisely because the committee members of the Danish Arts Foundation take the training about how it is that we get the art out throughout Denmark so seriously. I do not believe that we will get more art by cutting the State Arts Foundation, as we have chosen to do. I do not believe that we will get more art by cutting our cultural institutions, as we have chosen to do. And I do not believe that we will get more art throughout Denmark by doing as fragmented an effort as this will be far from being. Because there is actually the work of these committees, which are very open about what they are doing, if you grab them to hear how they think, how they work, that when they sit and give distributions, they are also trying to think overall strategies for: how are we getting around all over the place? How are we also doing some combined projects that will be of great benefit to a great many and that create an artistic value for our society? That is what I think should be the purpose, but that is the accusation of non-popularism and indulgence. I just think it's a shame. I think it is a pity that one wants to destroy an institution which is actually known in many places because it is uniquely constructed, precisely in the way that it is artists who sit and distribute to artists. It is professionalism that is high on the agenda, not politicians, not civil servants, but professionalism. So the alternative does not support the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162623	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162625	Is it not true that the increased geographical spread of art support has taken place under the new Law on the Danish Arts Foundation, in which the Arts Council and the Arts Foundation were merged into one and we had some geographical criteria written in, among other things. on demand from the Danish People's Party, and this is not due in particular to Danish People's Party's persistent criticism of the Copenhagen and the eating in the Art Foundation, and that the two things combined and together with a new chairman under the leadership of Gitte Ørskou have resulted in more consideration being given to the whole of Denmark in the last four years? Is it not the truth, and does it not show that, firstly, it is good to criticise that, secondly, it is good to change the state of things and, thirdly, that the Danish People's Party is actually an excellent kick in the whole debate as we do today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162729	I cannot agree with the questioner on that last point. On the contrary, I believe that this debate and the wish of the Danish People's Party will tear our art life apart in Denmark in a very unfortunate way. But yes, it is because in the framework of the State Arts Foundation we had to decide on diversification, just as we have to decide on equality and various other things in that legislation. And that is precisely the framework we have in place, and we are not going to make such detailed planning or complete dismantling as we would like with this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162802	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162803	The Arts Foundation should not decide on equality. It's just to point it out. However, the rapporteur admits that it is useful to change things. The rapporteur admits that it is useful to criticise, as the Danish People's Party has done. So should the rapporteur not at this stage listen to the Danish People's Party? We usually have our finger on the pulse, and what we propose is well worked, it is often visionary, and it often comes against reactionary, conservative forces in the Folketing, so shouldn't the alternative be alternative and then embrace this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162844	The self - esteemed person stands at the author's own expense for self - benefit. No, I cannot stand here and support the fact that we are smashing a unique size which, on the contrary, we should look at how we can improve. That is why we have proposed that you should look more at how to put more money into the Danish Arts Foundation, because that is actually where we get art out throughout Denmark. It is a unique size that we have created in Denmark, so let us develop it instead of dismantling it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162915	Thank you to the rapporteur. Did the rapporteur forget to say anything? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162918	I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162927	Thank you to the rapporteur. I guess there's nothing more the rapporteur has forgotten about this. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410162944	Thank you. Now I just didn't get my speech paper printed out, but then I have to try to get by without it. Today we are debating a number of motions for resolutions from the Danish People's Party on the Danish Arts Foundation. The State Arts Foundation is not something that I have spent much of my political time discussing, so for me there was a little such homework in both talking to some of the people who are dealing with the State Arts Foundation, talking to some of the artists who have suffered from it, and then putting myself into the arguments that are for and against the Danish People's Party's proposals. This is about dividing the National Arts Foundation into six regional funds. I actually believe that my starting point when I discuss cultural policy proposals is that we should make it easier to be an artist in Denmark and that we should make it possible to make art in Denmark. Artists must not only depend on free market forces, which support art, because that means that it will always be the popular one that will be elected. There must also be space for art, which is not necessarily popular, but which challenges. Nor must artists be completely dependent on the private foundations that exist. It is really nice that we have a number of private foundations in Denmark that support the art, but I do believe that the Danish Arts Foundation and the half billion kroner they have to do well with are quite unique in supporting the creative art in Denmark. Therefore, it is very important to have the Danish Arts Foundation. When I read the motion for a resolution, I can see that some of the concerns of the authors of the motion for a resolution are that there should be an in-eat in the State Arts Foundation. You can also see that if you delve into the press stories about the Danish Arts Foundation. It can be seen that there has been a debate in Denmark that this should be the case. But then I have tried to find some real facts about it: is it really the case that there is food in the Danish Arts Foundation? I have to say, I haven't been able to find that. I have also listened a little to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Søren Søndergaard's arguments and has thought that if you assume it is true that there is food in the Danish Arts Foundation, is it right to move it out locally? Is it the right thing to put it into regional funds? Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen said that it is easier to get grants from the Danish Arts Foundation, if you know someone who sits in the Danish Arts Foundation, but with my knowledge of local politics and how the local and regional often work, there will be even more danger if it becomes regional, where you know each other locally and regionally, that it becomes even more in-eat. I don't really think that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen rightly replied that there is also a risk of that. In fact, when I look at how the municipalities and regions sometimes work, I often think that the pools that run over and over again municipal and regionally are very often given to the same. When I was in the municipal council, we decided at some point to throw up all the cultural subsidies we gave, because now they had been giving subsidies in the same way for a very, very many years. So I would be a little afraid that what the proposers are actually proposing to get rid of the food if it is there you will not actually succeed. So I would like to discuss with the rapporteur what makes the rapporteur believe it. Then I have tried to delve into the figures of the Danish Arts Foundation and how it works. As I can read out, it is actually the case that there are 12 committees and that in the 12 committees there are representatives of large parts of Denmark; that is, there is a representation for all parts of Denmark. The fact that you have these 12 different committees, but where the application criteria are the same, and where Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen helps to handle it, makes it easy to understand how to get your hands on this money. There is, like legal certainty or some ease in that whether you come from one part or another of Denmark, it works in the same way. Then I am personally pleased that one fifth of the grants are given to children and young people. When you have a central pool, sometimes it makes it a little easier to make a national effort. If it is a national objective, which I can hear that it is both for my party and also for several others, that the means of art reach widely, then it is easier to steer it from the centre, and if it is a goal that they should be given to children and young people, it may also be easier for it to be controlled centrally from the centre. Then there is the whole argument about the administration, which takes up a lot for those who are sitting with the Statens Kunstfond. There are several rapporteurs who have mentioned that with this proposal we can actually risk that there will be less money for creative art because more will be spent on administration. So without being an expert in the field, but for the purpose of having more creative artists and more culture in Denmark, I don't see why I should support this proposal, because it doesn't seem like a proposal that will create more art and culture throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163448	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163450	In a small country like Denmark, it can be difficult to get rid of the food, especially in small environments. The rapporteur, like the Enhedslisten, is asking for documentation. I would now like to refer to P 1 Afternoon 17 March 2017. That shows, among other things, that:: In the case of applications where none of the members has declared themselves inadvisable, 35 percent of the applicant projects received funding. However, the figure was 52 percent for projects where one or more members of the committee declared themselves inadvisable and went outside the door. In addition, the review also shows that those projects where no members declared themselves inadvisable received 61 percent of the amount applied for while it was up to 85 percent when someone in the committee was inadvisable. Does this give the rapporteur the opportunity to say that this is at least some form of proof that there is a certain amount of food in the Art Foundation and that we therefore have to deal with it politically?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163549-2	As the rapporteur himself said, with such cultural pools there is always a danger that there is some kind of food. That is why the figures are interesting, and that is why I also say that we would like to continue the debate or see if we can get more information. But what this proposal does is that it comes with its own finished model of six regional funds, and I have still not heard the argument of the rapporteur who has convinced me that the six regional funds should mean less eat-in, on the contrary. And then there are just still the figures that show that you actually support widely throughout the country, that is to say that artists from all over Denmark can actually get support, and that you also give to children and young people that goes another fifth. I would like to examine more, but I have just not received the argument that has convinced me that there should be a better logic in doing what the rapporteur thinks should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163642	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163643	In our proposal, we also say that in the committees that must be in the regional art funds, there must be fewer artists, they must not be the majority. As it is today, far more members of the State Arts Foundation are artists or performers or have been executives in their subjects. Does this give the rapporteur an opportunity to consider whether he might be involved in the discussions in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163710	The rapporteur must know me well enough to know that I always want more information and that I never say no to an analysis because I think it is exciting to learn more. What is the advantage of having many artists, I think, first of all, is that artists know a little about the conditions of the artists who are applying and artists have a professionalism. I'm not sure that just because you put in other types than artists, there's less eating on the contrary, there are sometimes people sitting on board posts like this and committee posts around where I think it seems like they live in such a small bubble, and then you support and help each other. But, as I said, if there is a problem, we would like to help investigate it and talk about what to do, but I am convinced that this proposal is not the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163758	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr von der Vring's report. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410163824	Thank you, President. And thank you for a frank and fresh and straightforward debate. I can of course welcome the fact that the Minister has been cautiously open and will also call for discussions in the autumn to see if there are any things we can change in the State Arts Foundation. I accept the outstretched hand, and we will of course take our resolution along with us, and then we will ask for some kind of analysis as to whether it is possible, i.e. disadvantages and advantages. The Minister also mentioned that this might lead to increased administration, and there I am pleased that Mr. Leif Mikkelsen said that it could lead to less and that it did not have to be expensive. In fact, I agree with that, and the Minister himself has also said that we have some regional funds that need to start now on the basis of the Finance Act. I look forward to following their work, and we can use that as a springboard to possibly make these state regional funds. I am a little disappointed with the Social Democrats, and perhaps this is because they are the main architect of the current State Arts Foundation. It's their baby, and they cherish it. That is, of course, one thing, and the other is that the Socialists are, in many ways, the man of culture. As soon as there is the slightest criticism of cultural life, the Socialists are there immediately and back up, no matter what the views are. And in the Danish People's Party we believe in criticism. We believe in the open debate and we believe that artists are not holy people who should not receive criticism. On the contrary, criticism improves them. It was a little grotesque to hear Mr. Orla Hav actually provides a good argument for creating regional art funds. Because, as he says, there is an alignment in the current State Arts Foundation, and there is no geographical spread among committee members. And it is not the fault of the Danish People's Party, and why is it not? Yes, it is because the majority of committee members have been appointed by the board of directors of the Danish Arts Foundation, and it is the individual artists and cultural organisations that are setting up their people and they all come together from the capital. Then there is also the Minister who is recommending, and it is most often in consultation with the rapporteurs, of course, but certainly also with the staff. And the Danish People's Party does not have the opportunity to recommend a whole lot to the committees, and neither should we. So this is an argument for us to have to look at some form of regionalisation. This is crucial for us. I welcome the expressions of both the Left and the Liberal Alliance, which in many ways were elegant rejections, which sounded more like a 'yes' than a 'no'. I understand, of course, that when you are in a government, you naturally support the Minister and the government. That goes without saying. However, as I heard the rapporteurs, there was an approach. One would like to look at what one looks forward to discussing, one believes that some kind of regionalisation cannot necessarily make it more expensive, perhaps cheaper, but we do not know it. You want an analysis of it. At least that's how I heard Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, whom I even heard said that there was a need for a thorough discussion. And the Left even said that it was sensible what was proposed. On the other hand, a bandbull came from the man of the capital, Mr. Søren Søndergaard, who spoke up with prejudices about Denmark outside the capital, and it was very cheerful. I am a great supporter of Mr. Søren Søndergaard's speech. They're always cheerful, but this was a little out of line, I think. I have actually documented that there are problems with inability, by referring to P1 Afternoon study, and that is all we really know, in addition to artists who have themselves reported on the consumption over the years. And it is extremely difficult to document, especially in a small country like Denmark, and especially in an area where people are afraid to tell about the network that exists after all. It is perhaps not surprising that the Enhedslisten is opposed to changing the Danish Arts Foundation, because they have suffered in the same way as the Social Democrats when it comes to the cultural park: you would rather not criticise them, which I do not understand. But I do hope that the Enhedslisten, which normally sees itself as a revolutionary party, will participate in some kind of small revolution within the State Arts Foundation. For the proposal we have put forward on the basis of our proposal is the most visionary since 1964 when the State Arts Foundation was established. There is no one else in this Chamber who has proposed such radical changes, except to abolish it completely. No one has proposed such radical changes to the Danish Arts Foundation, where on the one hand we create new ones, but at the same time retain a model of art support. And our reason is simply to secure popular support. We know from measurements that what citizens and voters want most is to give art support to artists, and by giving regional ownership to citizens, politicians and artists, we also ensure a better knowledge of the art support model, instead of it being something that is happening there in the capital. So I don't really understand why Enhedslisten is usually in favour of basic groups and popular democracy and citizenship and experience... isn't part of this regionalization. Then there is the alternative, which is no longer alternative, but rather conventional. So no matter what the Danish People's Party proposes, you pour it down the board. No matter how well worked it is, you're totally closed. Well, I was really looking forward to it when the alternative came in, because perhaps there would be a fresh breath in the Folketing. But it's not a breath of fresh air. On the contrary, it is a breath that needs a little mint, and I really think you should take the Danish People's Party mints in this area and accept the outstretched hand and take part in these discussions. 'Cause it's good for the State Arts Foundation to get blown through, and I'm a little disappointed that you guys aren't in on this at all. I would just like to say that there are three criteria for the Danish Arts Foundation, and one is, of course, the geographical criterion which the Danish People's Party weighed very heavily when we amended the legislation on the Danish Arts Council and the Danish Arts Foundation. And this has brought about a change, and it has also brought about a change, that we had a chairman in Gitte Ørskov, director of Art in Aalborg, who had a very clear goal of spreading art more geographically. And she did, among other things. on the basis of the criticism made by the Danish People's Party against the Danish Arts Foundation. So it is useful to criticise and make new proposals instead of doing as the alternative, just leaning back and saying that everything should just be like old times. That's not good enough, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Finally, I would like to say to the SF that we hope that you will be wiser, as Mr. Jacob Mark said from the platform if there is a problem with the State Arts Foundation I heard the rapporteur. And there's a problem with the State Arts Foundation. There is no popular support, there are problems with eating, it is a centralized part of the state apparatus, and the city's artists' representatives often send their own as committee members. So there is a problem, and I hope that the Socialist People's Party will help to look at a small revolution of the State Arts Foundation. Because if we do nothing, there will be no popular support at all in the coming years. With these words, I would like to thank you for the debate and I think there will be a few questions. But if it has not been a pleasure to discuss the Danish Arts Foundation with my honourable colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410164733	That is a pity, and it is a good thing to say to the honourable Members, but then we should also remember to speak in the third person in the other rapporteur's speech, I would just like to say to Mr Beazley. Alex Ahrendtsen, just for the record. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410164748	Thank you. Well, the problem is, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen, that we are not discussing whether there are any problems with the Danish Arts Foundation. That is not what the proposal is all about. The proposal is a very specific solution to the alleged problems that there should be, and that is what we are criticising. - Sir... Alex Ahrendtsen does not confirm that the Danish People's Party's paper states: The tasks of the regional cultural foundations will be to distribute art and culture support to cultural and art institutions in the region, i.e.: That you're getting closer? And sir... Alex Ahrendtsen does not confirm that it says further down: it will ultimately be up to the regions themselves to choose which model they want to use for the composition of aid, etc.? Is it not the recipe for bringing cultural support very close to the risk of abuse, that it is not used to create more culture, but, for example, to create more culture? is being used to cover up cuts in the cultural institutions to which money can now be given? So, no, we're not discussing whether there are problems with the State Arts Foundation. We are discussing the proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward as an alternative, and that is really bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410164907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410164909	The proposal arises from the problems which have arisen with the National Arts Foundation since 1964. This is among other things. That is why we have proposed it. We have presented our model of solutions. The Enhedslisten has not presented any model at all. I look forward to seeing Enhedslisten's proposals to solve the problems that the rapporteur himself points out. And, of course, as the rapporteur says, it is the region itself that has to put together a model in some way. That is what we have proposed. What the rapporteur is just forgetting is that all artists will then be able to apply. It is not just the artists of the region but the artists of the whole country who will be able to apply. I think that is actually a good model because it creates ownership, it also creates regionalisation, it creates decentralisation, and it also creates some popular support. At least that's our faith. And if Enhedslisten has a better model, I'd be happy to hear about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165007	Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165009	One of the problems that the Danish Arts Foundation has been accused of, namely that there were artists who were not supported but were kept out of the parnasse, was something we proposed a few months ago in this Chamber, in other words what we could do about it. Unfortunately, the Danish People's Party did not support it, but it was an entirely objective proposal for a tax credit that could help artists who had a certain income by making creative art. But okay, that's not what we're discussing now, but I'd like to take the discussion again. Maybe I should re-table it just so we can have the discussion again? But I just want to ask one thing at the end: what is actually the reason Fyn has got regional status in this proposal? I find that interesting. I also think that the municipal reform that was carried out, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen may be able to indicate which parties helped to implement it, was a disaster ~ a disaster of centralisation, but it is not solved by exactly taking Funen out as an independent area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165107	The Enhedslisten's proposal was not acceptable because it created a special fiscal position for artists, and that is not a way to work in Denmark. With regard to Funen, we thought it might be a good idea to divide Funen and South Jutland into two regional art fund models, because the region is very large and there are two very different identities. It is therefore important, when we talk about popular support and co-ownership, that there is also some regionalisation within the art support model. That is the reason for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165149	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165152	First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, that I don't see much fresh air in winding up the Danish Arts Foundation, which is what you want with this proposal. That is why, of course, we are not going to support it, even if we are urged a great deal and are told that we have ugly breath or what else it was. I would like to say to the six regions that it is a little strange to invent that we are now making some new regions instead of the regions that are. Has the Danish People's Party looked at exactly how much or how little money there will be for distribution in the individual regions, even when you make these divisions of one region into two smaller regions? What will the economy look like in relation to the distributions to be made in each region in each subject area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165239	In our proposals we have calculated the economy, and we believe that with our model we can unleash about 100 million. kr., and they can of course be used for different cultural purposes, or you can also save them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165255	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165257	But as far as I understand, you take a budget from the National Arts Foundation more or less as it is, and then you hand it out in these six new regions you have created. What amounts will be available at each small region, for example South Jutland or Funen's art region, for the individual purposes, which are the art types we know today, except the film and architecture, which have nothing to do with art, it is the builders?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165329	This kind of thing has to be seen in an analysis when we hopefully get the government on this model, and I very much hope so, and then we have to have the authority to figure it out. We didn't do that on purpose. We have said that there are the total funds, but minus 100 million. kr. that we can save, and that money we're handing out on these six regional funds proportional to the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165407	Thank you. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165411	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Alex Ahrendtsen for a proper svada. There are not many gaps in the prejudices of Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen about who are sinners and who are not sinners. I just need to ask you a question. In the years I have heard Dansk Folkeparti argue, Dansk Folkeparti has argued against regionalisation. This has been the case with our health services, which should be done by the state; it has been the case with large parts of the public service, which should be done by the state. Is this a new trend on the part of the Danish People's Party, where you want to regionalise, or what is the reason why Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen and Dansk Folkeparti now suddenly see the greatness of regionalised solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165501	I'll refer you to Mr. Knox. Orla Hav to discuss such things with the health rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Now we are discussing a proposal to regionalise the State Arts Foundation and thereby create popular support around the country for the state art support system. That's why we're here. I cannot begin to discuss health and hospital services and regions in general. These are regions understood as locally anchored art funds, and this should not be confused with the administrative regions that have been decided upon in the context of municipal reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165547	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165548	Then I can see that there is no line at all in the political approach of the Danish People's Party. Sometimes you want a regionalised solution, and I have a feeling, like other rapporteurs, that it is because here you see the easiest way to reduce the dissemination of art and culture that we are a lot of people who want to benefit the whole country. That, then, is what you choose here, while in other contexts you argue that it should be done by the state and the sooner, the better. I think it is a pity that there is no better line or even a line in what the Danish People's Party is doing in this area. I just have to say that there isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165637	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165637-2	I don't understand why, sir. Orla Hav then does not support this proposal when he seems to be in favour of regionalisation. This is a clear proposal to regionalise the Art Foundation, it is well worked out, it is visionary, and it should actually be in the tail of Mr. Orla Hav's speech, where he just pointed out the problem of the alignment and appointments of the Danish Arts Foundation. So I just don't understand why you don't just say yes. That's all that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165706	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165732	The debate is open. Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410165739	Thank you for the floor. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 81, together with the other two proposals we are discussing here today, aims to create a greater diversity in art support and greater popular support and involvement. B 81 will contribute to this objective by requiring the Danish Arts Foundation to change the practice of distributing its grants. Indeed, the proposal envisages that in future it will no longer be individuals, but cultural and artistic projects, cultural and artistic institutions and cultural and artistic companies which can receive grants on application. The institutions and companies can then offer artists to create art upon application or award artists a scholarship. In addition, it is proposed that the institutions receiving grants, etc. must itself guarantee an amount equivalent to that received from the Fund. I would like to start by saying that I again share the intention behind the proposal, namely to create more diversity and greater popular support for art support, and I also believe that there is always good reason to look at whether our current forms of support are the most optimal. However, when it comes to precisely the scholarships, I believe that the very direct support for artists can be a good and unbureaucratic way of investing in artistic talents. The procedure has been used for hundreds of years, and the personal support already provided, for example. Hans Christian Andersen the opportunity to unfold and develop his artistic talent. I would also like to mention that I can be a little bit concerned about whether the idea of first giving support to institutions and companies, which then have to pass on the support to artists, will not just mean an extra administrative layer in the distribution of art aid. However, I can easily see that we could make grants to individuals more up-to-date. It could, for example, be done. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. It could be to teach one of the artistic courses to some extent or be required to convey artistic ideas and methods that have been worked on during the support period. So the thing about getting a look at the fact that you don't just deliver a scholarship, and then there's nothing else that needs to be returned, I'm kind of open to. In other words, I do not think that the requirement should be that there should be a book, or that there should be 12 pictures or such things as this work artists, but I would very much like to take part in discussing some form of consideration, and I would also like to discuss this with the rapporteurs, when, in the autumn, as I also mentioned, when we discussed the previous proposal, I expect to call the circle of agreement to discuss the support of art and the possible changes that we can look at, but in a general perspective. Against this background, I must inform you that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170049	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170052	Thank you again for being cautiously open, for which I would like to thank you. After all, there is already a scheme that is a little like what we are proposing, namely the house artists' scheme. We just picked it up and blew it up, making it a little bearable. Could the Minister perhaps imagine doing a slightly larger experiment based on a house artist scheme, a little bit of what we have in the proposal, to test whether it will 1) give more money to art, and (2) whether it will not also create more diversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170134	Now I have just been sitting and enjoying a few mints while I heard the rapporteur round off the previous debate, but I think we have to look at it in a whole when we try to look at how it is with the rules on art aid, which I will open in the autumn. But I will certainly not rule anything out in advance. I think that would be too thin a basis on which to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170201	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170201-2	What is so interesting about this proposal is that it is a decentralization of decentralisation. In other words, the previous proposal created regionalisation, and this goes further, by adding it to a variety of institutions and businesses, which will then have to cooperate with the artist. Couldn't the Minister see it as an attempt to create life in this art support model that's about to freeze?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170237	As I said, I am willing to discuss any proposal that might be put on the table when we move forward, and I will have the expectation that the Danish People's Party will carry in a proposal such as this, if you are serious, and I think the Danish People's Party is doing so. So that way, I'm actually willing to look at anything. But I would also like to maintain that I also think that we should speak quality when talking about art, and also when talking about art aid. How to tighten it up, so that you can both accommodate some of the intentions of the Danish People's Party in this proposal, and yet maintain that this is not just such a blind distribution, without we also discuss quality and ensure quality in the way we manage it. After all, it is public funds that we have to discuss and look at, both what attempts we may have to make, but also the whole quality discussion, which I think we have actually gone a little outside of here in today's debate. But I just think it would be important for me to maintain that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170339	Thank you. Then we can move on to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170350	Yeah, that's so the second set of a three-setter we're out today. The Danish People's Party will require the government to change the practice of awarding grants from the Danish Arts Foundation, so that the support is given to cultural and art institutions and cultural and art companies rather than to individuals. Social democracy cannot support the proposal. Of course, we are always open to discussing what helps to provide the people with high-quality art and culture. We just don't think this proposal does. One of the main reasons for rejecting the proposal is, of course, that the criticism that is often made against the art and culture policy pursued in Denmark is that we are very skilled and very nice in creating bricks and frames around art and culture, whereas those who make sure that there is some content in it do not worry much about it. Here is another example of the fact that the Danish People's Party then goes and says that no, so we should not ensure an opportunity to practice their art and to help create an exciting content for all those people who want to experience art and culture in everyday life in the institutions and in museums and elsewhere. We simply do not think that this is the only reason why the proportion of the State Arts Foundation's resources is made up of these grants. Yeah, that's 15%. I know that the Danish People's Party is in pain because of the Danish Arts Foundation and that it does not think it is fair that we have it or that it should be there. After all, we are also spending our speaking time talking this down and putting the system of hatred under control. It has no popular support," says the Danish People's Party. No, as long as the Danish People's Party travels and tells how unreasonable things are, despite the fact that something can easily be fixed. In fact, it is not as bad a system as the Danish People's Party makes it. For example, the Danish People's Party does not hear it with the 15%. So in these words, I just have to say that the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party B 81.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170630	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170633	Well, lots of measurements have been made that show that voters will not give art support to artists, but leave it at that. My question is about the house artist scheme, which today exists and which takes place in such a way that an orchestra could be the Aalborg Symphony Orchestra, which will get money from the Danish Arts Foundation to hire a composer for a period of time, or it may be a kindergarten that will be able to hire an artist or musician for a while. That arrangement already exists, and that is the arrangement that we are blowing up to become the cornerstone of regional art funds or the State Arts Foundation. My question to the rapporteur is whether he believes that the housekeeper system is a bad one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170726	No, I certainly don't think so. So, I tried to give an example of where I myself helped to ensure that artists had an opportunity to create an income and realize an idea they had with a work of art, so I think it is both interesting and reasonable that we think about where we give artists the opportunity to make a living and translate their ideas into works of art. Where the shoe prints is, the Danish People's Party has helped save 640 million. kr. in the arts and culture budgets, and this is one of the challenges the artists face, namely that this huge saving has been achieved in the whole field of art and culture. Then it may be that you talk nicely about the house artist scheme... and I can only say nice things about it... but it doesn't help when you've taken the money away from it, and you can't talk that away from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170819	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170821	Just for information, no savings have been made on the Danish Arts Foundation and DFI they were freed from the re-priority contribution, so it is actually wrong what the rapporteur says. The rapporteur therefore thinks that the scheme for house artists is a good one, but why on earth do we not support the Danish People's Party's proposal, which is based on the house artists' scheme? That doesn't make any sense. That's one. The second is: could the rapporteur be interested in perhaps making an attempt based on the model of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170855	But when we reject it, it is because this is phase 2 of what the Danish People's Party is doing, namely that you want to break up the Danish Arts Foundation first as a national unit and then distribute the money, and then you want to break down what is possible for the individual artists in the cultural field. We do not think this is the right way to go and we do not think it will be possible to get the quality of the money we want with the proposal. Of course, we are always open to discussing better alternatives, but this does not belong in the drawer with better alternatives.This only intends to help reduce art and culture in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170938	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Britt Baker, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410170947	The motion for a resolution here is about changing the distribution of grants under the Statens Kunstfond. We are again dealing with a part of the Danish People's Party's proposal for reform of the Danish Arts Foundation 2018. I will be brief so as not to repeat too much. My main appeal to this proposal is that we may risk increasing bureaucracy if individual artists are to apply via an institute or a company. However, I would like to emphasise that I support the intention of the proposal, because I think it is actually time we cleaned up the art support structure. We in the Left have also expressed this point in the past. I look forward very much to the autumn and our forthcoming discussions on developments in this area regarding the current agreements and the possible solutions to the problems that we in the Left also think there are with the distribution of these grants. Out of respect for our future work in the autumn, the Left does not support the resolution now, but we support the intention to review the distribution of grants once and for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171100	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Be careful not to lose your breath. You have to be able to say something when you get up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171133	I apologise to the President for being concerned about important side negotiations. In relation to the proposal that we were discussing a moment ago on the decommissioning of the State Arts Foundation, the background and consequences of this proposal are much clearer. It is simply a question of adding another link, another taster, between the creative artist and the population. Today, an artist can seek a scholarship to produce a particular work, after which production can begin. Following the proposed scheme from the Danish People's Party, it is made much more bureaucratic. As the Danish People's Party writes itself, and I would like to quote: "An art museum in the Region of Southern Denmark seeks the regional art fund for a new sculpture and gets a commitment to it. Of course, the regional fund will decide for itself how much it will contribute. The museum has guaranteed to co-finance an amount which it could possibly. has received an undertaking from a private foundation. Then sculptors from all over the country can send suggestions to the museum, which then selects an artist to make the sculpture. ▪ It's much more complicated and with more taste judges in it. Already today, we can criticise the current support for art for being reasonably opaque. With such a system here it will get even worse, plus that it will be more expensive administratively, but in my opinion it is really a detail. What is crucial is that such a system will become another obstacle to the free thought. The art will be further institutionalized for the benefit of the safe and for the benefit of more of the same. The innovative and the naughtier will be even more excluded, and perhaps that is the purpose of the authors of the motion for a resolution. For Enhedslisten, the opposite is true. We do not think that we need any more of the predictable. We need more of the unpredictable and the provocative. We are one hundred percent in agreement with Salman Rushdie, the well-known English-Indian author, when he somewhere in his book Satanic verses writes: "A poet's work consists in mentioning the unspeakable, in identifying deception, taking sides, starting quarrels, shaping the world and preventing it from falling asleep. What is being proposed here will not contribute to this. This will contribute to predictability. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171438	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171442	It was, however, quite a verdict on the many talented cultural institutions and companies that work every day to spread art products to citizens, but it was quite an ointment. The fact is that even today the Danish Arts Foundation's awards are quite predictable; it is usually within a very narrow art ideology framework that something is being awarded. So by making this change you will create much more diversity, because there will be many more people in it in relation to hiring artists, instead of being relatively few people in the State Arts Foundation who are in it. So wouldn't this diversity be a good idea? I know that the Enhedslisten is in favour of diversity. With this, we're decentralisation and we're creating diversity in the support system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171541	Well, I have to say that the idea that it should create great diversity, that the local regional mayor sits on some kind of council and has to deal with applications that have come from museums which, moreover, must ensure co-financing, etc., is simply not the way to create diversity. In other words, I think it is right to criticise museums which do not make sure that they are safe in the situation which the constant 2-percent cuts in the field of art impose on them. There, of course, you have to bet a little on the safe, of course you are, because otherwise things could go terribly wrong. That's why this is a way to bet on the safe instead of on the unpredictable. In our view, this is a completely erroneous view of why we need art.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171637	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171639	It's really very strange. I do not know what Louisiana would say to the accusation that they are going solely for the safe, or a museum like the Ark, in other words that they should go only for the safe. They're professionals, they know about it. Is the rapporteur not confident that the many, many thousands of professionals around in cultural companies and institutions can make their own choices and thus dare to challenge instead of being dependent on a very narrow circle in the capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171714	Well, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen: You cannot make your own choice. It's a mistake. After all, they have to guarantee 50% of the co-financing... that's what the proposal says... and that means they have to get others to take part in that election. And who has the money to make that choice? Who is the co-financing? So no, they can't decide for themselves. If it was a question of them being able to decide for themselves, maybe we could talk about it, but it isn't even in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171742	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171754	Thank you. This is, of course, one of the proposals and it is pointed out here to change the support so that it does not go to the artists but to the institutions. It's actually hard just to say what it's going to mean out there in the real world and what it's going to move. At any rate, one thing that is a clear signal here is that there will be some people out there who will have to take responsibility for cofinancing. That means that it must provide more money in the system than there is today. It is worth searching in a conversation that the Minister has already signaled will take place in the autumn. That's why I don't really have much more to add to than that it's fair, since we're in the process of this review... you can say that we're taking it all along, and this too, and we're assessing: are we getting more money out of the money, and could there be more money in the system? Is there a better way, or could it be a combination of these things? Maybe these shouldn't all be personal grants. It could also be for institutions etc. I think this is a light cast on this issue, which is worth including in the discussions invited by the Minister for Culture in the autumn. So that part of it we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171913	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410171920	Thank you. Now I do not know whether the rapporteur for the authors of the motion will again call this proposal a breath of fresh air or a mint fit for you, but I must at least say straight away that I hope my breath is good enough to hear that we say no to this proposal. We do so for two reasons. One is about cofinancing. I am fully aware of the success of the House Artist Scheme, and I have even written in several debates about a proposal on how to extend it, so that a number of others could also make use of the fabulous scheme, which ensures that artists can actually be taken to work in jobs and in public and private institutions throughout the country. But I am not willing to say that the entire amount of the State Arts Foundation should be added here. I don't think that's a good idea. I do not like the marketisation that will happen if you have to crown by crown to co-finance. Nor do I like the fact that we suddenly focus so much on the institutions that initiate it, and not on the art and the value that art has in itself. I myself have, at one point, been out on a trip with the rapporteur for the authors of the proposal in the broadcast • Far from the Castle. Here we saw, among other things. a work at home in a kitchen, and it was a puppet theater. It was the artist himself who had sought a work scholarship to develop some working methods. Where would that happen? Where should the free frame of art where one works with art as a field that develops, but maybe doesn't come out to anyone right at the first moment, but which later can change some things and become something very big, be? I do not believe that can be supported when I look at this proposal and if it is implemented. I think it is important that we focus on the fact that it is artists who can seek a work scholarship where there is no focus on the work, but where there is sometimes just a focus on the artistic work process that is happening, because I think that has an important value for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172138	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172141	The market is good for art. The art needs the market, and I am rather surprised that the alternative does not think this is a good idea. After all, the alternative is to be a party for entrepreneurs and, in particular, alternative entrepreneurs, cultural entrepreneurs. Will this proposal not mean that, as Mr. Leif Mikkelsen said that there will be much more private funding in the field of art, and 2) this will involve cultural companies and cultural institutions in a completely different way from today, thus benefiting the entrepreneurial culture that the alternative normally talks about?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172225	No, what I can actually fear from this is that you suddenly have some money from the Danish Arts Foundation that can go in and cover the gaps created by a number of 2-percent savings in the institutions, so that the money gets away from art. This is supposed to cover the gap that the Danish People's Party is also helping to create in the Danish art and culture environment right now. So no, I don't see this as an option. Unfortunately, I see this as a way of winding up. However, I would like to say that if the Danish People's Party wants to help extend the scheme of house artists, one can, among other things, do. look at our financial bill, where we can find funding to exploit, that we could actually get house artists out on private companies, where there will be a need for cofinancing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172306	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172308	I have to say for the second time that the State Arts Foundation is exempt from the re-priority contribution. Now is the second time in the matter, it is said that this is not the case. My question is: if the alternative does not want to be part of the whole proposal, could one imagine that one would be in favour of some of the proposal, namely that we are making an attempt to see whether an enlarged version of the house artists' scheme could be a good idea here, simply to see if it does not strengthen the cultural entrepreneurship in Denmark? Could the alternative be a part of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172347	First of all, I said that this would cover the two-percent savings that are in the institutions, not in the State Arts Foundation, which has been cut, among other things. to create two new regional funds. However, if the Danish People's Party helps to find new funding and does not help to undermine the Danish Arts Foundation as it is, the alternative would very much like to take part in this. And I can at least tell the rapporteur that, if it is of interest, I should like to send our financial law proposal where there is funding for such a model.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172413	There are no more brief comments. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left, should be covered by the alternative, and then we move on to Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172430	Thank you. I actually think, as I did when I looked at the three motions for resolutions today, that the best process for the rapporteur and the authors of the Danish People's Party would be to have a basis on which to take this debate, i.e. to examine all of this with indulgence in the Danish Arts Foundation and to find out what is in it. I understand that something has been going on in the media today, but I actually think it would be a little better if we sat down and among the parties talked about what we would like to have investigated. That is why I think that the right way to do it is to meet in the ministry and discuss whether there is something that needs to be changed. Because it will be a great deal to change small parts of the Danish Arts Foundation, and then you can make a lot of motions for resolutions on it, and we can each time as a party and that is what I want to say this time: we want to be involved in discussing whether there is something that needs to be changed if we can see that something can be done better. But it will be based on facts and to do better, to support artists and create more art and culture in Denmark. When I look at this proposal, I can be worried about whether it will mean that there will be such an extra administrative link, whether the protection or what the Danish People's Party is trying to gear the cultural money can actually help create more administration. It may not be the case, but I can be a little worried about it. The next is that I can be a little worried about whether there will be longer from the Art Foundation to the artists and that it will be harder for artists around the country to be allowed to apply for a share in this money, because it will be a few fewer institutions that will get a share in it even if some of what I actually heard Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said in his arguments for the last resolution that it should be easier. I just think that if you adopt this, it will often be the same kind of institutions that get a share in the money. So I can be concerned that what the rapporteur intended to do with the last proposal would in fact be harmed by this proposal. Then there is the slightly more nerdy part, which is that if you institutionalize this further, I may be afraid that the art that will be allocated funds for in the future will thus reflect the prevailing thinking. In other words, if it is such finished art projects and some institutions that you know will probably get this money over and over again, then I am afraid that the prevailing thinking about art and culture will be challenged enough. And I think again that the Danish People's Party must have an interest in the fact that it is not the thinking of the ruling institutions, although it may also be good, but that there is also the possibility, like overtaking them and just getting money, if you as an ordinary artist have an idea. Then there is what has also been mentioned by several other rapporteurs: the demand for it to be very complete. I can be a little concerned that the projects for which support is sought should be very much completed. And finally, there's this part-financing thing where I'm a little split up. I am afraid that if you take all the money and say that it should now be tied up to co-financing, it will mean that there are some projects that are killed in advance that there are some that might have been quite relevant, but which may sound crazy as a starting point or where those institutions think that it is not just them, that it is not exactly their profile and that they will never happen. However, a discussion on how we can gear cultural money and get more co-financing is, in my view, interesting. So I would like to discuss whether there are some models for how to do it in the future. With these comments, the SF cannot support the proposal, but, as I said, we would like to continue to discuss the Danish Arts Foundation later.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172812	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172813	That was once again a pleasant, cautious openness on the part of the rapporteur, and I am, of course, pleased about that. So this motion for a resolution is part of an overall proposal that we have published in the past, and it is all connected. But to have a more detailed discussion, we have divided it into three. My question is that we already know models like what we are proposing. There is the house artist scheme, but it also exists in the world of film. It is often producers who apply for DFI money for a project, and DFI only comes with part of the funding of a film, the rest you find outside. Has this resulted in a lack of experiments? On the contrary. Danish films are known throughout the world for being innovative. So why on earth will we not try that model in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410172913	It is actually funny that the rapporteur says so, because I was sitting with both some actors and with some directors who had a lot of opinions about the way we give film crowns in Denmark because we are about to discuss film crowns. And they said that even though it is good in Denmark and we have a good system, it becomes quite guiding for the thought process, when you make a film, that you are so dependent on funding from the various funds, i.e.. This is about whether to make movie clips from different places in the country... which I think is a good idea. But it's gonna be governing. It also becomes governing that we have to think about: where else can we find funding? And there it is just, I think you can't transfer it directly to artists. And if you transfer it directly to the artists and it becomes just as governing for ordinary works of art, I am afraid there are some works of art that we miss and that could otherwise have been very good. So we would like to discuss how to get cofinancing in and make it a bigger part than today. But I'd be afraid to make it as comprehensive as this, because I think that's going to be doing it for the governing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173018	Well, it's nice that you want to help find co-financing, and I look forward to seeing SF's own model. But the fact is that art and the artist benefit from being challenged, not only by their colleagues, not only by art critics, but also by those who have to pass on the work of art. It may be a gallery owner, it may be a publisher who challenges the author, who has written a script where you then work it through. There are plenty of books that have been improved by the fact that cultural activity has worked with it, for example. Jakob Owner's boss, Liberty. So isn't the conclusion that it will benefit the arts and artists that we follow the model of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173104	There is the risk that if artists are to be challenged for money, let's say that they have to be further challenged, they will be, because it is not the case that, just because you are looking for the Danish Arts Foundation, you get money today; that is also what we need to do and we make a system where you have to have cofinancing in this way, you will be challenged by someone who will ask: What is popular? What is popular, what will many see? And I think it is not only artists who want to do something that many will see needing support. On the contrary, I believe that it should be broader than that. Or you will get support if you do what is the prevailing thinking, because that is what money is given to. I also believe that it should be possible to obtain support without necessarily proposing it or doing what reflects the prevailing thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173147	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber. That is why we move on to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173206	The prevailing thinking, Mr. Jacob Mark got his speech off with, and it's pretty central. Because today there is a prevailing thinking in the Danish Arts Foundation, and this is usually because it is the same people who are most often elected, with the same approach to art. With this proposal, which we are discussing in the Chamber now, we want to create a diversity, a huge diversity, and a decentralization of decentralisation, and I have given some examples of what could be done, for example. The scheme of house artists, which already exists in the Danish Arts Foundation, and which I remember is that we could blow up to become the guiding principle. I have also pointed to the world of the film, where it is usually cultural companies that apply to the DFI, i.e. the Danish Film Institute, for the means to make a film, after which they get script support. They can hire a scriptwriter, then they can pay them, and then they can return and get further support for the film, then they can go out and search the market for finance and shoot money themselves in it, and it has been a success; the combination of public-private, of culture, of DFI, of support, of fund has been a success. This has meant a great deal to the talent stock in Denmark, and we could open it up to the rest of the art. And it is as if in this Chamber, and yet I do not want to say the minister or the bourgeois parties, but in particular on the left, there is a fear of rethinking in this area, and that is a pity. I would really like to thank the Minister for being cautiously open again and calling for discussions in the autumn. Leif Mikkelsen and Mrs Britt Baker, who have pointed out the need for us to think about it and to look forward to discussions on it, and I look forward very much to those discussions in the autumn. But on the left, you've been a bit of a foot drag. However, I would admit that the SF has actually been open. Sir. Jacob Mark has shown openness, but the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and Social Democracy have certainly been somewhat conservative and reactionary. The rapporteurs are not progressive. Sir. Orla Hav claims that this system will lead to deterioration, but he does not really know this because it has not been attempted, except on a smaller scale with the domestic artist scheme, which is a success. The Enhedslisten believes that it creates taste judgment, and one does not believe that the institutions and cultural companies and the many thousands of professionals around the country are in order, so that they will also be able to challenge the arts, and then one does not understand at all, except for Mr. Jacob Mark, that this is going to create more money for cultural life because there has to be some form of co-financing. And I am rather sorry that a party such as the Alternative cannot understand what a boost it will be for cultural entrepreneurs in Denmark. It's good for the art that there's a market. The market is good for art. There must not be too much market. There must be a balance between public aid on the one hand and the free market on the other. It is good for art that there is that interaction, and that is really just what we are trying to do with this proposal. I think it is a whole-cast game, I think it is innovative, and it is based on something that is already known, namely the housecraft scheme and the world of cinema. I really think that the rapporteurs should have supported it, but I look forward to this autumn's discussions, and then we will see how far we can go in the rethinking and innovation of the somewhat reactionary artistic environment in Denmark, because that is what we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173633	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173637	No, the Danish People's Party does not create balance. What you do is that all art support is in the market. That's what this proposal is all about. All art support is in the market. It's not balance. It is the opposite of balance. Balance was that one had something where the market was not in and that one had something where the market was in. What the market is not aware of today is what we want to do away with. It's anything but balance. Then I do not understand the argument about the housecraft scheme that is so good and needs to be disseminated. It is not two months since the Enhedslisten put forward a proposal exactly to extend the scheme of house artists to people in institutions, hospitals, nursing homes, demenscent centres, etc. etc., and what was the Danish People's Party's position on this proposal? What was the position on the proposal for an experimental scheme of 10 million? kr.? Don't come here and talk about conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173734	After all, a museum is financed by the public sector and therefore it will not be the free market. But it will still be a market, though financed by the public, which then, in cooperation with the artist, creates a new product. Others will be on the free market, for example. publishers, if they get their hands on some money from an art fund, and that is only good when the market is over. It's good for artists. It's good for the writers. I have mentioned Liberty, who without the editorial staff of Johannes Riis would not have been the book we know today because he passed away before completion. We said no to the scheme of house artists and the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten. As far as I remember, it was something about funding that we did not agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173835	Then it's mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173840	Sounds touching to me when Mr. Knox... Alex Ahrendtsen would like our art institutions and museums and others to play a greater role in the market that is for art and culture, but the truth is that exactly these institutions have got the love to feel by the current government and its support party. 640 million kr. you have removed. How is it that these institutions should be given the opportunity to carry out this task when the love for them is so great that you have removed a lot of money in this area? Doesn't it sound a little hollow to talk about all the glories that the housecraft scheme could have created when the reality is that it's dry pocket pain that's out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410173929	We agree so far that the re-priority contribution is not very clever because it is a green harvester, and that is why I have also proposed that we give priority to saving and targeting. I've said that many times. At the same time, however, this proposal will create more money for art and will far outweigh the two-percent savings that the institutions have suffered. There will also be a large number of private cultural companies that will have the opportunity to seek funds, so overall it will generate more funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174007	The truth is, whether Dansk Folkeparti has regretted that Dansk Folkeparti has helped save 640 million. kr. in the field of art and culture. That's the way it is. Then it may well be that you had some ideas that it could be done in a different way. The truth is that we have voted in favour of this. My second question is just this: is it not the case today that private foundations are quite nice to participate in the financing of various artistic installations and other things that come under the artistic field? From my own home region I can point to a single project where private people come with 200 million. kr., so it's not any new money, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen talks about it being money that can already be put into play in the current system. Then why is it that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen will destroy the current system?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174103	I just have to say that the State Arts Foundation is not included in these 2-percent savings. That's the third time I've said it. They're freed by them. And then I would just like to point out that, as a general rule, funds do not support operations but support installations. The proposal that we have in the Chamber now will be able to support operations because you have to co-finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174129	The next question is Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174132	I have to say that I am a little puzzled by this whole proposal from the Danish People's Party, because I just don't understand how this was supposed to get more money. If those who are to co-finance the funds are cultural and art institutions that are already dependent on public funds and receive a great deal of money in public support, as several of the Danish People's Party have rightly said, I find it difficult to see how more money is to enter the system. Isn't the reality here that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen creates a much bigger bureaucratic system? If a single artist has a good idea and a project and a work that he or she would like to put into practice, he or she can now apply directly to the Art Foundation, while with the proposal here he must go through a new bureaucratic link in order to realize his or her ideas as an artist. It seems more like some Kafkask application system with greater bureaucracy, and I do not see that at all for the benefit of free art, and I certainly do not see that the individual artist should have the opportunity to achieve his projects more than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174245	It's so good to see Mr. Knox. Mogens Jensen in the Chamber and take part in the debate. It's nice. It will create more funds because much more will be able to take action, for example. Funds, e.g. private cultural companies that today cannot apply for the Danish Arts Foundation. And then it will create a much more diverse market. It will create a much more diverse cultural world, a decentralised world in which thousands of people become involved, instead of being relatively few people in the capital that set the direction for the distribution of grants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174327	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174330	Well, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen may have many explanations, but what I just want to hold onto is that the starting point today is that it is quite simple. After all, we have a lot of artists in Denmark distributed throughout the country, and a lot of artists, even outside the metropolitan area, get a share in the Kunstfonden funds, but with Alex Ahrendtsen's new hokuspoku system here, they first need to convince some others that they should be allowed to apply for their project to be realized, and then it has to enter into a system where it is decided. It is just another bureaucratic link which helps to prevent artists from having the opportunity to realise their projects. I can't see it any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174422	It's always good when you have to convince others. After all, we know that film ideas and scripts are getting better from having been through DFI, we know that it is getting better from having been through producers when they have to find funding, and through television companies, and in the same way we know that it always gets better when artists have to work with others, among other things. institutions where there are professionals who know things and who can challenge them. So, on the contrary, it will benefit cultural life and it will benefit the artist. That is my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174451	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174506	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410174527	Thank you very much. Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-84, together with the other two motions for resolutions which we have discussed here today, aim to ensure a more diverse system of support for art and to strengthen public support for Danish art and culture. B 84 then has three elements. Firstly, local referenda on art in public spaces must be required as a condition for the grant of such art. Secondly, it is proposed that support for foreign art activities should be abolished in order to free up funds for art and culture in Denmark. Thirdly, it is proposed that the National Arts Foundation's honours should be replaced by a State or Royal Prize, which, together with a gift of money, should be awarded every three years to an artist as a special prize for lifelong work. In fact, when it comes to decisions on art in public spaces, I take the view that decisions of this kind must be taken on two legs. Firstly, as a matter of course, we should ensure that citizens who actually have to live with the work of art are involved and, secondly, that, like the other leg, an artistic expertise should be included, so that knowledge about art and experience from previous projects is also included. As far as the involvement of citizens is concerned, I would like to mention that the Danish Arts Foundation is already very much involved in local representatives and that the fund also encourages the local actors with whom it cooperates, and that is typically the municipalities, to involve the locals in the project. I would also like to mention that the initiative for the projects we are talking about here, i.e. art in the public space, into which the Danish Arts Foundation is part, always arises locally, in other words, the initiative arises locally. In my view, it is very important that the Kunstfonden and their local partners experiment with different forms of citizen involvement and adapt it to the different contexts in which art is to be incorporated. And I would just like to say that I personally am not convinced that referendums are the best way. I think it is very good that we have a democracy, and I think it is actually very good that we have a non-direct democracy in all areas. And now I say something that does not sound very nice, but I think that when you drive through all the many fantastic roundabouts we have had in Denmark, you should think that it is very important to ensure that the two legs are there on the one hand the local involvement where the citizens are affected by art in the public space and can be pleased that there is an involvement that you have to find out for yourself how to organise out there locally, and on the other hand also that we have an artistic expertise. It can create dynamism, and I think it is difficult to put such a thing on a clear list as that there should be referenda, because unfortunately I have to say that, although I have been very kind today, it is not a good idea. As far as foreign art activities are concerned, I am not very friendly either, because I would actually like to say that this is support for Danish artists who can present their art abroad. And it is, we know, very important for the development of the Danish artistic talents that they can go out into the world, equip themselves and meet a foreign audience and thus also a demand for their art. Again, I would like to say that this was actually what Hans Christian Andersen did with his great travel activity. In the end, it will also benefit the Danish audience if the Danish artists can assert themselves at an international level. The Danish artists' activities abroad thus help to make and market the Danish artists, but they actually also help to draw a picture of a small country like Denmark in the big world, and I think that may be very useful when you are such a small, albeit very lovely country, as we are here in Denmark. So I do not think it is a good idea to stop supporting international activities. The two proposals I have mentioned here are both covered by the political agreement on art aid, which deals with the tasks and structure of the Danish Arts Foundation, which, as I mentioned earlier, was concluded in 2012, and that also means that if changes such as these are to be implemented, they must be approved by the contracting circle. Now, for the third time, I am going to call for a wide-ranging debate on possible changes in art aid in the autumn, and I would also like to say that when it comes to the services of honour, I am, on the other hand, more accommodating, because there I would like to say that I basically agree that the form of support, as it is now, is hardly the most appropriate form of support, and I would therefore very much like to see how we can reform this area. At the same time, however, I must stress and make it quite clear at this stage that the abolition or alteration of the benefits of honour will be something which will take a very long time, because the artists who receive the benefits today obviously have a right to be able to receive the benefit life-long, and that means that the benefits can only be abolished or changed to another system as the life-long recipients die. So the benefits of honour can in fact only probably be fully abolished in 40 years' time if that is what you want at that time. Of course, those who have been granted benefits today have a legal right to have them on the grounds on which they have been granted them. So if the aim is to save money, I have to say that it takes quite a long time to collect the proceeds from the abolition. That does not mean that we should not discuss it and not possibly change it; I am just saying that we should have that perspective. Again, also about the change in the benefits of honour, I would like to say that this is something that requires agreement in the circle of agreements. So I would like to propose again that we discuss it in the autumn, and I can therefore say that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175136	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175141	It is gratifying that the Minister would like to look at the benefits and the model we have today. I thank you for that. I am not sure that the Minister is right in saying that the recipients of the services of honour have a right forever. I would like to challenge that, I hope we can, because otherwise it would mean that we would not change any public services forever and ever, and that is not true. What I want to ask is the involvement of the citizen. The minister does not believe in referendums. What if I can show that research abroad has emphasised that citizens are actually becoming wiser by being involved in referendums and that they know more about things than before, because there has been a referendum? Would the Minister be prepared to look at this aspect as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175239	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175241	It is clear that if there is experience now I do not like the word evidence, because it is being used in all kinds of and especially impossible contexts in these years, which one can be inspired by also locally, then we must do so. However, I believe that it must also be based on a local decision, in other words in local, democratic, elected bodies, how people want to be involved when it comes to art in public spaces. Of course, we must not just make decisions without talking to the citizens about it. I am just saying that I am very sceptical about precisely the referendum instrument. On the second part of the legal requirement for the services of honour, I would like to say that you should never be too confident from the parliamentary platform, and I would like to go back and check that I simply cannot see that, when you have received a benefit on certain terms, you do not have a legal requirement. If it had been a favorable change, it might have been possible to talk about it. But it will not be if a benefit has been awarded, and then you come and say: we gave it to you on these terms, but unfortunately we have now changed our decision. The way we use public resources today is, of course, something that is regularly under discussion, also in relation to the way we support, for example. cultural institutions and the like. But here we are talking about a personal benefit to a specific living person. And it has to be said that in a community governed by the rule of law we stick to the fact that when we have made a decision of that nature, we also keep our word.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175413	In Switzerland, three scientific studies have been carried out over a period of 20 years, which show that three out of four citizens participating in referendums actually have a good or very good knowledge of the content of the referendum. And that you get involved in a completely different way than if they weren't there. And I should like to take this opportunity to discuss whether referendums on art awards could be an idea in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175445	I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen, that everything can be brought. But I think we are talking about two things. One is whether citizens become wiser by getting involved and engaging in things. And I hope that this will be done when we have to vote in a referendum. I do not doubt that; I think people generally learn more from that. However, the second question, i.e. whether you get art at the level of quality that we want to ensure, is one that I can have my doubts about, i.e. whether it is suitable for a referendum. It can do that in some cases, but I am not sure that it will also be as a general instrument. I am actually convinced that this is not a good thing as a general instrument.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175524	I thank the Minister. We move on to the list of rapporteurs, and the first is Mr. Orla Sea as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175533	Thank you. In this third set in today's game, the Danish People's Party will require the government to introduce local referendums on art in public spaces and then I will comment on the rest afterwards. I cannot help referring to my favourite example from Danish art and culture, namely the brave mayor, Kaj K. Nielsen, in Holstebro, who at the time took the discussion with his own citizens about the timely setting up of a small iron sculpture on a cart in the pedestrian street in Holstebro. It raised a rather strong discussion in the local area, and you scratched your head and wondered if the mayor hadn't gone crazy. The truth is that as time went by, the holstebros took Maren o e woun When, at one point, the citizens realized that she represented a value of 1⁄4 billion. kr., they also agreed that now she should have a glass cabinet to stand in at the stroke in Holstebro. It created an involvement of the citizens in the matter of making a courageous choice about the use of art and culture to lift the pride of a region over its own abilities and being. It is easy to do that, and of course we must involve the citizens, but I am surprised that if Kaj K. Nielsen had chosen a vote, there would probably have been a fellow party member for Mr Kaj K. Nielsen. Alex Ahrendtsen, who would have stood by and said what it was like to spend taxpayers' money on such nonsense. This is based on the fact that there are elected representatives of the citizens, who have both the courage and the vision to discuss with the citizens, and who also dare to take decisions which will then prove to be both beneficial and beneficial to the area. Lately, I can only refer to what Hjørring Municipality has done by creating Vendsyssel Theatre, which citizens use and are broken with pride over. So that's it, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen is asking for an instrument to limit enthusiasm in a region so that you can derail the discussion from brave local politicians who dare to use art and culture as part of the way you create development. We do not think we want to contribute to that. On Saturday I will help cut the string at a JCE Biennale, which takes place in the Art Building in Vrå, which is an international exhibition of artists under 40 years of age from seven different countries. It helps to raise self-understanding in the Vrå area so much that you are involved in such an enterprise. Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen forbids us to spend money on. I think this is quite contrary to the interests of the country, it is quite contrary to cultural interests, and it is a pity that we have to spend time on such destructive behaviour. Alex Ahrendtsen's choice, that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175904	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410175907	Sir. Orla Hav has an attitude that can be described as we only know, and this suggests that the rapporteur does not have the slightest confidence in the citizens. 'Cause when sir... Orla Hav and his Social Democratic colleagues have been elected, they are so much smarter than the citizens who seem to be so stupid that they cannot be involved. With regard to Holstebro, it would have been wise to have involved the citizens before the decision was taken. This is where the decision was made, and then they were involved. I think that is a strange way of looking at the citizens, the voters, democracy. In fact, I think it is very unpleasant and very disrespectful. Then it would not be wise to involve the citizens before the decision is taken instead of after, Mr President. Orla Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180009	I mean, I'm gonna have to ask myself not to have to represent anything better-knowing. The representatives of the local democracy to which I refer have obtained re-election on re-election, because they have been really, really good at being in constructive interaction with the citizens who also have to choose them. But if we do not have the expectation that the same representatives have both a broad and a vision for the part of the country they are part of, then why should they engage in local politics? They must take the lead, and they must set good examples. That, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen wants, is a probate means of derailing any discussion that something new, something exciting, something different can be introduced, because one can always suspect that. Who, as a citizen, would have voted in favour of putting up a small iron sculpture down in the pedestrian street in Holstebro? I do not think many people would have wanted that in advance, but there was a city government that dared to take the discussion and go to elections, where one time after another they defended that they had bet on raising their region in this way. And you succeeded, and you took it in. So it is about having vision and also dared to realise it with the citizens. So don't do that about the
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180132	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180135	Well, that's just sir. Orla Hav, who knows better, for he believes that because he is elected, he has vision and wisdom. He is of the opinion that because people are involved, the rethink prevents that from being the conclusion of Mr. Orla Hav's speech. But we do not really know it, because it has never been tried to involve the citizens, for example. through a vote. It has not been tried when it comes to culture. So would it not be a good idea to involve the citizens before the decision rather than after? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180217	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen seems to be more unaware of how political programmes are being developed locally and regionally. After all, they are created in a prior discussion between Members and citizens, who are helping to set the points for what they should be working for, and in that work there is, of course, an involvement of citizens. But to introduce a requirement that you have to make a referendum in advance before anyone has any picture of what this might turn into, there may be 50, who have an insight into what this could bring about... is strange. But it is there that you have to have an involvement with your citizens, which makes you dare to show that you also have vision for the region for which you are a representative, and Mr. So Alex Ahrendtsen wants to derail.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180312	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next is Mrs Britt Baker as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180323	The third motion for a resolution we are debating today is whether the State Arts Foundation contains several elements. The main headlines are: local referendums on art in public spaces, the abolition of support for foreign art activities and the reorganization of the system of honorary services. This proposal is also part of the Danish People's Party's proposal to reform state art support. I very much agree that we should rethink the benefits of honours to see if we can usefully update the framework so that the scheme is more up-to-date, and I also share the proposers' intentions to involve citizens in local art in public spaces. That is already possible today, and I am therefore not convinced that a referendum is necessarily an appropriate solution in this context. In my opinion, this will lead to more administrative trouble, for which I do not think we are getting much more citizen involvement. But let us have a thorough discussion of the Danish People's Party's reflections in the autumn when we also discuss the other two motions for resolutions. As the Minister also mentioned, the government does not support the removal of support for foreign art activities. We in the Left are very much in agreement on this. The activities that are taking place abroad benefit us so much, and we therefore continue to support the possibility of foreign activity. I look forward to discussing this in the autumn. I am sure that together we can come up with better solutions to the challenges that we are facing with the art support system today, but, as in the other areas, we must have a thorough discussion of it, and we must do so in the autumn. We therefore do not support this proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that neither do they.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180537	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Søren Søndergaard as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410180554	The proposal before us is one, what should we say, rooted in proposals in very different areas. With regard to the part of the proposal which deals with the issuing of a referendum in housing associations on art in the area of a housing association, we believe that this is completely meaningless. That possibility already exists. It only requires that you appear at a resident meeting or department meeting and get it adopted. So Parliament does not need to interfere at all with what the Liberal Alliance's housing rapporteur also pointed out in an earlier discussion when it was presented here in the Parliamentary Chamber. With regard to the part of the proposal which deals with a referendum in a local area on art in public spaces, there is also the possibility, although I admit that it is somewhat more difficult and in a more limited form. This requires a majority of the city council, and the result is only indicative. But by the way, I think it's a hammer bad idea to hammer a bad idea. Now, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen made me a representative of Copenhagen several times. I would like to protest against that. I represent the surrounding area of Copenhagen, i.e. the West Region and around Copenhagen. I live in Gladsaxe and am chosen in Gladsaxe, where we have Gladsaxe Main Library. There we had an artist to decorate the entrance to the Gladsaxe Main Library. His name is Bjørn Nørgaard, and he had taken three different pillars from very different times, and it created a worse palaver because people said it was style confusion etc. But there were some who said: Surely no one will notice in 1,000 years' time. And that's probably right, because when the time goes by, you don't notice. If anyone were to suggest that it should be removed today, then it would be voted down. People like it; people get used to it. You can see that it belongs. But when it's on a piece of paper like a drawing, you can't get the full experience of it. That is why I think that, if we are to have a referendum, we must have the referendum after it has been set up. I'd like to make an alliance with sir. Alex Ahrendtsen says that it must be possible, 10 years after a work of art has been set up, to have a referendum to take it down again. It would, of course, be to give opportunities and space for innovation and give room for challenges, but also to give an opportunity to get it removed if, after a period, it does not fall into people's liking. The second is, of course, just a desire for the predictable, and that is, as I have stressed in previous points, contrary to the very nature of art. With regard to the part of the proposal which deals with a change in the services of honour, we are certainly open to discussion. We've always been. After all, we helped to change it last time, because it was totally absurd to give credit to people who had a good income. You don't do that anymore; we all know that. But the proposed proposal, which is then called a guarantee of the future, in which honour is to be replaced by a prize of honour, which is awarded in collaboration with the Royal Danish House So, excuse me: future and the King's House? The two words in the same sentence alone make absolutely no sense. What would be the argument for involving the Royal Family in this? Equally absurd is the proposal to abandon the Kunstfund's support for activities abroad. In Enhedslisten we naturally support Danish art being presented abroad. That's all I needed. Well, now we've paid for it, so it has to be shown out and influence outside, and that, of course, also applies to the part that is not just about making money. International cultural dissemination also contributes to the development of Danish art. Now the Minister for Culture has mentioned Hans Christian Andersen. I had written that here too, but I will not mention him, because he has been mentioned. But then you could mention Thorvaldsen. Well, I'd like to invite Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen to go to Bertel Thorvaldsen's Square after the meeting here. There are tens of thousands of demonstrators demonstrating for proper public contracts, but I am sure that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen can get them pushed away and maybe come to the museum and see all the inspiration that comes out of taking out. If you do not want patrons for the people who have money, then of course you must also be able to give it via cultural funds, and we absolutely support that. As the proposal stands, the Enhedslisten cannot support it. I would also like to welcome the rapporteur of the SF and say that he is always in favour of looking at the proposal more closely, but that he rejects it in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181104	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181107	That is very funny, because normally the Enhedslisten is in favour of basic democracy, votes and referendums, and at their national meetings they have tons of votes that also determine the policy of the Enhedslisten. But when it comes to art and culture, to statues in open spaces, you no longer think it is a good idea. The proposal is actually that, when it is money from the Danish Arts Foundation, people should also have an opportunity to be involved. Then it is proposed that ten years should pass, but will we also wait ten years when we have voted on the legal reservation to see whether it is good or bad? In other words, what is good in a referendum is that it involves people in advance. It makes them smarter. I think it is a little too bad that Enhedslisten has the haughty social democratic attitude towards the citizens. Have faith in them; they can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181211	As I think I pointed out, the possibility exists of making binding votes at least in housing associations. When we talk about public seats, it is not binding votes, but the possibility does exist. Then we can see which politicians dare stand up against that referendum. This, of course, requires a little activity; I recognise that. But what is really the function of art? That's what I've been trying to discuss in this discussion a couple of times. I don't think it's a coincidence that sir... Alex Ahrendtsen doesn't relate to it. The function of art is not to confirm what we already know. The function of art is not to be predictable. It's fine with a big painting at home of that I don't know if I can say such curtains that hang in a certain way. That's all right, and that's fine, and there's no problem with that. But the real function of art is to challenge, and challenging, as I quoted before, the good writer Salman Rushdie, who was able to challenge and also challenge the right ones, is that people may not immediately understand it and that is not exactly what they want. But you can get to that, and it can set some thoughts in motion. That's why there has to be room for people to be challenged. Then I think it is quite all right that after a period you say that you don't want it, because you don't like it anyway, away with it. I think that is very democratic. I think it is democratic to take a position on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181344	It is true that in housing associations and town councils referendums can be held, but it is just not happening that it is about art. It's because of that attitude, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard has for the citizens, and that there are similarities between referendums and predictability. How does the rapporteur know? We haven't tried it. We have not dared to challenge the citizens on that. Will the rapporteur not be involved in this experiment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181410	It is because it is negative referendums that are being proposed here. It's just to prevent something from happening. Okay, then I completely misunderstood. If so, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen imagines that any citizen can make suggestions for artistic decoration around the world and that it will then have to go to a referendum, I think it is interesting. However, as has been said, and as most people have read it, at least as most people have said, this is a negative view, namely that there is a proposal that can be considered. We can then vote 'yes' or 'no' to that proposal. This does not mean that we have more thoughts about urban roots or regional people than we do about citizens. It is simply a question of giving art the opportunity to challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181503	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181514	Thank you for that, President. Well, this is kind of like a football game: to prevent targets from becoming targets, you shoot to the corner. That is what we have said about all the proposals here: we are talking about them in the autumn. Therefore, I may not have to say much about this because we will have the opportunity to discuss it again, and that is actually good enough. As several have mentioned, there are three elements to this proposal. These are very different elements, and that is why it is rather difficult to relate to, because there could be something positive about, and other things you did not like, and that can lead to the fact that you cannot support the proposal. Whether local referendums will increase engagement is hard to say. It can also prevent art, because if you can't agree on it, it doesn't work out. You risk this kind of thing being stopped against something else, you'd rather have a bike path or something like that, and it's incompatible sizes. It is like when you talk about whether you should increase the subsidy to the local sports association for the sports hall or you have to ensure that there is nothing missing in home care or whatever it may be. It's incompatible, because there's nothing you can do without. Therefore, it is actually a difficult discussion, even locally, if you have to deal with it that way. Then I would say that I do not have the imagination to imagine that the Liberal Alliance has an interest in creating border controls so that Danish artists cannot work out of the country. I don't have the imagination to imagine that. We haven't discussed it, but I don't have the imagination to imagine it. On the other hand, I would like to say that we have actually discussed stopping lifelong benefits so that no more are allocated to it. That's an interesting thought. I know that we have had something done that prevents it from being assigned to people who are not missing anything where it is completely ridiculous. But it might well be worth considering, and that is why I am a little too sorry that there are so different elements in this proposal. But I am comfortable that we have now kicked this to the corner and that we will then discuss it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181719	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410181726	Thank you. I need to get right to it right away. As I said, there are three proposals which do not really have anything to do with each other in this proposal, and I will take them one by one. First of all, there is the matter of referendums. I want to say that I love every way we can talk about art in our society... every way. Something I don't love is alignment, so there's only one right way to do it, one right way to involve, and we've decided that in here. What you have today is that you have opportunities to do so in a lot of ways. If you are curious about the work of the Danish Arts Foundation, if you want to reach out and hear how they actually work, they are very concerned about having that dialogue, finding the right art, finding the right place, having the dialogue, not just with those who decide where to put it up, but actually with those who have to look at it, those who have to enjoy it, those who have to be provoked by it, those who have to be moved by it. The Danish Arts Foundation is very concerned about this. You've had some fun projects, including... We have also voted on the subject of art, for example. •Our Art from 2011, where three projects were selected and voted on. What can I get you? There was the ferry on Ærø, where those who won • I think it was by 35 votes was elected to decorate it. There were other fantastic projects where they also said: how can we get the dialogue on art in public space? So no, thank you for one way of doing this, yes, thank you for involving and involving in all possible ways. I think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentioned the possibilities that already exist, and many of the possibilities that are also used around are precisely inclusion, involvement, involvement. Something else I think is worth discussing when we talk about art in public space is how we can sometimes do it temporarily. Well, why should a rider's statue stand in the same place for 100 years? Or: Why should a beautiful sculpture stand in one place, instead of moving it around, every ten years or something, to revisit art? I believe it was a director of the Copenhagen City Center who once actually suggested that all art in Copenhagen in public space should be moved around with a certain number of years between. It is also an exciting solution if we want to talk about the art of public space. I do not think it comes as a surprise to the authors of the motion that we absolutely do not support the part which is concerned with the fact that we must now stop the activity of our artists outside the borders of the country. On the contrary. We have been out suggesting that we actually hired artists at the Danish embassies so that we could have even more work, which is about meeting with the art of our society, from our culture with other cultures and having the cultural meeting, which is so crucial to working against conflicts and for a greater understanding between people. So no thanks, but let's turn up Danish art around the world and Danish artists around the world. Finally, in relation to the services of honour, I am quite happy that we can talk about whether there are better ways to do it; I am very, very open to it. We just have to remember that there are also some artists who receive this, for whom it means that they get butter on the bread and who have made a fundamental artistic difference for Denmark. I think we should take that into account. But to abolish the certificates of honour in order to make one award that is awarded once every three years to an artist, we say no. We have many more artists who need glory in Denmark than one artist every three years. I also think it is important that it is the state, in other words the community, that gives it. The Royal House has their grants and awards, and I think they should do so in peace and without our interference. Now I remember saying from the Radical Left that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182131	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182134	The rapporteur says that the alternative would like to involve citizens, but that it should not be a specific but a whole range of different forms of involvement. Does this mean that there is also a positive attitude towards referendums, as an instrument among a great many citizens' involvement instruments?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182156	We believe that any residential area that wants to make a referendum among citizens, whatever they want in that area, should be given the opportunity to do so. Surely we should not stand in here and decide that they should let us give opportunities and open opportunities instead of restricting them, as this proposal will do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182221	So the rapporteur thinks it is a good idea to make referenda for art projects where citizens get involved, in other words when it comes to art projects in public spaces. The rapporteur is positive, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182236	I don't understand what it is, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen is trying to make me say. I can just say that we think it is positive to create involvement when we talk about art. We thought it was a good thing when you did our art, where you had votes, and if it is the right way in some residential area, that is to say to do it with a vote, then you do it like that. It could also be that you could find out more than just voting, so that you actually started talking about art and thus had a better involvement than maybe just a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182306	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. And then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182326	Thank you, President. Then we are coming to an end after a glorious afternoon in which we have discussed art and cultural support. And it has been a pleasure to listen to the objections and suggestions of my honourable colleagues on the three proposals of the Danish People's Party. The Minister was not as open this time as the two previous times, but has nevertheless opened the door for us to discuss it. And with regard to the principle of referendum, a large number of studies have been carried out, among others. in Switzerland, which shows that the principle of referendum is a great way of involving citizens, and we use it far too little in Denmark, especially when it comes to art in public spaces. My business is actually just to tell my colleagues that we need to have a little more confidence in the citizens. We have not really done this before, but I would urge that we do it more often. The Minister also mentioned the benefits of honour, and I am therefore not sure that the Minister is right in saying that these citizens have a right to the end of their lives. I am sure that the Folketing is actually allowed to change it, but we can check that out. I'm sure the Justice Department has some talented lawyers who can tell us about it. After all, the Socialists exposed a strange, haughty view of the citizens today. We only have a broad view of the citizens, where we do not have the slightest confidence in the electorate or the citizens. But because you have been elected because you are elected by the people, you are immediately a thousand times smarter than the citizens. I think this is a strange way of looking at the citizens. Involvement works, but that, sir. Orla Hav said in her speech and in her answers that referendums and involvement prevent innovation. And we don't actually know that because we haven't tried it. So that's it, sir. Orla Hav actually wants to make the decision, and then you wait for the reaction, and then you involve. But it is not citizen involvement, it is dictation, and what I think Mr. Orla Sea has not understood that referendums are one of many instruments for involving citizens before taking the decision. And we know that art in public spaces produces many reactions. Why not take advantage of it? Why not take advantage of the public's interest? I understand from the Enhedslisten that you think this proposal was created to prevent innovation. But let me just read from the proposal what it says: "The Danish People's Party is proposing that local referenda on art be held in public spaces in order to involve citizens more closely around the country. ▪ We want to involve citizens, and it is not to prevent anything and not to ensure that there is no art in public space, and not because there must be a certain taste of art. However, because we know that it creates debate, that people are interested in it, and we are actually confident that citizens will also rethink it. They want to be challenged, but they also want to be involved. So a thick line underneath that it is not about a particular art direction. No, we would actually like to involve the citizens, as opposed to among others. Social democracy. I must also say again that the alternative is not particularly alternative. The alternative is reactionary and not progressive. You don't want to be involved. I asked twice whether referendums would not be used as a tool among many to involve citizens and that other forms could be used when it comes to art in public spaces. But I couldn't get an answer, it wasn't buh or poop, and it's kind of disappointing. I'm going to say to the alternative that now you're gonna have to become an alternative. At the moment, it is the Danish People's Party which is alternative, especially in this area. I actually understand Enhedslisten that you will not let the royal house become part of it, for Enhedslisten is a revolutionary party that does not want a royal house and wants a republican rule in the country. I actually understand that. But that is why it may be a good idea to change the benefits of honour because they have lived out their time. We live in a modern society. There is no need to provide lifelong services for people today. There are so many opportunities to make a living. That's not the slavery of hunger. Artists don't live in a lonely chamber on Nørrebro up on the fifth floor. There are opportunities for help. We have a welfare society. So I'm actually gonna ask Enhedslisten to come into 2018 and then change the honorary benefits scheme. I think it's time. Thank you again for the debate. I think it has been interesting to listen to my colleagues and their opinions on art and culture. I hope that we can have something more like this in the Parliamentary Chamber. I always think it's exciting. And, of course, I look forward to the Minister's call for discussions this autumn, and I hope that the rapporteurs will then be open to change. Now we'll see how far we can go. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182955	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410182957	The Enhedslisten will be happy to come in in 2018, but then I think the rapporteur should come in with the proposals made by the rapporteur himself. After all, the rapporteur presents himself as such as an anarchist who wants referendums everywhere and so on. Nothing's from the truth anymore. The rapporteur is a taster who only wants to have referendums on a few very limited matters, and that is why I have to read from the booklet which the Danish People's Party itself has sent out and which the rapporteur probably has written. It says: If the Regional Arts Foundation distributes funds to a work relating to art in the public domain, the condition for its execution is that a local referendum be held on the work. It is therefore only in cases where some taste judges have been in and say that this is good enough that there can then be a referendum. It is not a question of allowing residents or citizens to have referendums on the works of art they want to run. But if it really was, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen would have written before the system took over, if that is it, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen really believes and is actually passionate about, so I am sure that we can then come together to make a proposal on this so that people can have more influence on public space. But that is not the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183119	After all, the present system dictates that the Danish Arts Foundation dictates, and the citizens can then just say yes and amen once it has been decided and the work of art has been set up. And there we really think it is very reasonable that we should have that as a condition, otherwise these votes will not come. That is the reason for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183143	Why would Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen and Dansk Folkeparti do not help to give citizens more influence on public urban spaces? Why will it not be possible for citizens' groups to collect signatures, or whatever, for a referendum to put some art in place? Why should it only be something that some taste judges have approved, where one can then say no? It is such a very negative influence rather than a positive democratic influence. This is not clear from this proposal, I know that, but in order to maintain the good atmosphere here on the table, I think that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen must unleash the anarchist and support that proposal. We will then be able to work on how it is to be formulated in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183223	I am happy to do so, because I myself have put forward a proposal for petitioning for referendums in the municipalities, both on decisions made by the city council and which citizens would like to have on the agenda. Unfortunately, it was voted down by the whole parliament. The only thing that was agreed by the government was that in future there may be binding municipal referendums issued by the city council. That's all. So, yes, I would like the citizens to also collect signatures and ask for a sculpture in an open place. I'd love to. I'm in. That's an amazing principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183303	Then it's mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183305	If I have to say something positive, it is of course that after a three-setter where Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has lost 7-0 in all sets, so he retains the mood and even has the profit to put preachers on others who have different opinions. When I have expressed a scepticism about the negative referendum procedure, which Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen advocates, it is a little related to the fact that I know the history of the views and opinions represented in the Danish People's Party, namely rindalism. Rindalism was, by its very nature, totally opposed to anything that even challenged the people, and it was prepared to bring up a negative majority against this. That is why the way to ensure citizen involvement for me is by taking the discussion with the citizens in good time, dares to show vision, dares to realise them and to continue the good dialogue with the citizens. And that's something quite different than that, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen says he's heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183418	If we are to stay in the tennis language, I really think I did quite well, because that would be like Caroline Wozniacki playing against eight worldets, and that is where I think she would lose 3-0. So I'm not ashamed of that. As far as rindalism is concerned, it is always the one that comes back to when we talk about changes in the art support system. I am a little sorry about that, because it really is a shadow of innovation; it means that you per. reflex says no, only because it comes from the Danish People's Party, and because one could be accused of rindalism. I think that's too bad. Come out of that hoofy bubble, dear sir. Orla Sea! However, listen to what is being said: we want to involve the citizens, we want to change, we want to renew, we want to modernise rather than stay in the reactionary cultural bubble in which the rapporteur finds himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183522	I do not think I am in a position to express pride, but that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's interpretation of it that we have a different view of things. Well, that's gotta stand for Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen's bill, that's how you settle. I find it deeply shameful that this is how labels are distributed. I just want to ask you something. If we could ignore what posterity has shown, where would Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's party would have joined Holstebro City Council if the mayor had come and suggested putting up a tiny iron sculpture on the pedestrian street? Would one have applauded enthusiastically and said: we must go out and support a referendum on this issue? Or what would you have done?
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183604	You get answers like you yell in the woods. Sir. Orla Hav has offered to dance, and I have accepted. It was so little violent. I just note that the attitude of the Social Democrats towards the involvement of citizens is zero because you feel so much smarter than others, and that is just too bad. I cannot answer what the Danish People's Party would have voted in Holstebro at that time, because we did not exist at that time, as far as I know. So it's a hypothetical question I can't relate to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183636	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183653	The debate is open. And I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Astrid Krag as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410183712	Thank you. I would normally like to thank the Minister for bringing forward a bill which we in the Social Democratic Party believe is urgently needed: the bill here, which prevents bankruptcy in the care of the elderly and creates security for the elderly who choose private home help providers. However, in this case, it is probably more appropriate that I thank my colleagues in the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party, because they, together with the Social Democrats, pressed the government to call for the negotiations on the prevention of bankruptcies that we would otherwise have to understand from the older minister and the government that there was no need to do so. But the government came on better thoughts and fortunately for it; a reverse sinner has great value. We can also read from the comments made to the government's bill that over the last five years there have been more than 40 bankruptcies among private carers providing practical help and personal care under the free choice system in the area of home help. More than 12,000 elderly people have experienced standing without the firm and well - known home help from one day to the next. It is elderly people who are deeply dependent on the help they receive and who have experienced unacceptable insecurity, while municipal home care has immediately had to step in without notice, with what has had consequences for the other home help recipients. The consequences of the individual bankruptcy are therefore great, especially for the elderly, but also financially for the municipalities that have to step in when private suppliers throw the towel in the ring. And so it costs us all when the tax dollars go to pay bills after a bankruptcy instead of for our common welfare. That is why, as I said, we in the Social Democratic Party, together with other good forces here in Parliament, pressed for the government to call for negotiations on an agreement on the prevention of bankruptcies and then to get as ambitious an agreement as possible in order to secure the elderly against future bankruptcies. The deal was made last autumn. It is no secret that we would have liked to have seen more initiatives in the agreement. For us Social Democrats, it is primarily not to ensure an attractive market to make good money on for private companies. The crucial thing for us has been that the bar to enter the market is so high that we have sorted out the companies that are not grown up. And here I am concerned that we have a government that seems more concerned with holding hands under private suppliers than with ensuring the safety of the elderly when choosing a private supplier. Nevertheless, we are pleased with the agreement we ended up being able to make. The agreement gives the municipalities better opportunities to keep up with private suppliers' finances and see the early signs of economic problems so that earlier action can be taken before bankruptcy with just a few hours' notice means that hundreds of elderly people are without home help. And the agreement ensures that bank guarantees will be available everywhere in the future which not only guarantee local authorities financial compensation in the event of bankruptcy, but also ensure that economically unsustainable firms cannot have access to publicly funded home help. With the agreement and the bill we are discussing here today, we are creating greater security for the elderly, who are deeply dependent on help to cope with everyday life and who want to choose private suppliers to whom they are entitled. We can therefore support the bill. When the Minister comes to the floor a little later this evening, there are two things from the consultation process that I hope she will address, and otherwise we will pursue it further in committee. First of all, it is FOA's point that it will be crucial for there to be a central guide with recommendations for contingency plans so that it does not become a paper tiger, that is to say new bureaucracy that makes sense in one office or another, but does not make a real difference in everyday life, but a guide that the FOA is calling for, which can ensure that all municipalities have a contingency plan that strikes in the event of bankruptcy, no more or less. I would like to know whether the Minister will take this further in the process. Secondly, KL raises the objection that it is not considered that all municipalities will be able to assess the suppliers' accounts. Here we are over in the a little more serious section, because if the municipalities are not in a position to assess the quality and soundness of the companies offering to take over responsibility for some of the weakest elderly citizens, then we have a problem that is greater than what the bill here solves. KL writes that this would mean that the municipalities would then have to use external consultancy services. It will therefore cost money that will go from welfare to, for example, welfare. private audit firms. I believe that there is already too much of this in our older sector today. So I would very much like to know how the Minister responds to the objection of the KL and whether one can imagine a central backup for the municipalities that do not feel able to assess the economy of the companies on the basis of the information that the bill gives them access to. And those were the words of the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410184154	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410184203	Thank you. 53 bankruptcies since 2006 FOA has estimated the scale of the problem. I have no reason to doubt that. Less than a month ago we had the last one, and this year we have already seen four. Every time a bankruptcy hits the care of the elderly, it creates insecurity and uncertainty for the elderly about who comes in through the door and helps them with the challenges they face in their daily lives, challenges that relate both to well-being and health, much down in what can be called the bottom of Maslow's pyramid of needs, which determines whether we can function as human beings. The insecurity was that which caused the Danish Parliament, as Mrs Astrid Krag mentioned, led by the Social Democrats, the SF and the Danish People's Party, to call for negotiations on these challenges with the many bankruptcies. However, after too long a Parliament and a report which was only a long time in the process and which subsequently proved to contain everything other than what it was going to do, we reached a negotiating table, and after tough negotiations there we reached the agreement where the legislative measures are the ones we are dealing with now and here. That is, for example, the case. the requirement for municipalities to have a readiness if they enter with private suppliers, so that some thought has been given to what should happen if things go wrong. It's always good to have a plan. It is matched by a guarantee that must now be demanded of private suppliers, so there is money to carry it out if things go wrong. It is, of course, most of all aimed at cleaning up, but what we would like to do was to avoid bankruptcies, and therefore there is also an important part about requirements for those companies who wish to bid for home care, so as to prove that they are running a healthy business that has a chance to survive. It then allows the municipalities to follow up regularly on the state of affairs of the companies they have within the door, so that you can make sure that you can avoid and prevent these bankruptcies in good time through close cooperation with the companies. There are good experiences with this from among others. Odense Municipality. Finally, I would also like to mention a fine clause that you must not have debts due to the public for more than DKK 50,000. It is not a sound starting point for cooperation with the public sector if we do so in order to be able to pay back the money that is already owed to the public sector. Then you already have a pressure ball in relation to having to withdraw money instead of spending money on the near welfare. With those words, I must inform you that the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410184538	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Jane Heitmann as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410184546	In the Left, we are pleased that today we are dealing with a legislative proposal to curb the number of bankruptcies in home care, because there is a need for security in the provision of care and care. Since 2013, when the red majority changed social services legislation, we have all too often heard about bankruptcies and crashed care companies, unfortunately. Understandably, this creates insecurity among our elderly. The very scenario that an increased focus on price rather than quality would create a breeding ground for many bankruptcies worried us in the Left, and this was the reason why the Left did not support Thorning-Schmidt's bill back in 2013. But we must eliminate insecurity, so that we as an elderly citizen do not have to wonder if there will be help tomorrow. Not only do our older people experience insecurity, but the many bankruptcies also create insecurity among the employees. That's one of them. Therefore, today we are first dealing with a new legislative proposal to prevent bankruptcy in the future. I am sincerely pleased that we broadly agree politically on the direction and I understand that the Socialists still support the bill. And let me be quite honest and say that it has been a difficult birth, if I may say so, because we have had many discussions on what areas we should legislate and in which areas it would make sense to conclude an agreement with the KL. It is widely known that the government wanted legislation on new municipal contingency plans to deal with possible bankruptcy in the future and on-going calculation of transfer prices, so that we ensure that the calculated prices reflect the actual and current costs of the municipalities. We supported that starting point in the Left. Now we have come up with a legislative proposal with a binding law, which is based on the political agreement reached with the parties of the Folketing. We also support the agreement on the part of the Left, although it should not be a secret that we would have liked to have seen less intrusive or bureaucratic legislation, if you like. Indeed, there has recently been criticism of the draft law here, among others. because KL believes that the requirements for better supplier management, bank guarantee and presentation of accounts are precisely bureaucratic, if you like. In fact, I am surprised that the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag, is out on Facebook with the rake in relation to precisely the bureaucratic side of the bill, because in whose garden is it that the desire for increased legislation has grown? It's not in the Left, and it's not in the government's. But having said that, it is important that we look ahead, so let us not point the finger at each other. Now it is a question of putting the ship in the lake, as it were, and ensuring that the care of the elderly is taken care of, whether you have chosen a private or public player for home care as an elderly person. Fortunately, the elderly are happy with the free choice. For the most recent survey by the Ministry of Health and the Elderly, 79 per cent. of the elderly are either satisfied or very satisfied with the help they receive, like 61 per cent. It is important or very important that there is actually something to choose from. Because we all know it: people are different and have different preferences throughout their lives, and that does not change simply because you are a pensioner and dependent on help from others. Personally, I welcome the very possibility of choosing. I believe that choice strengthens quality, but it is clear that there is a need to change the framework, and that is what we are doing now. Because a dignified care for the elderly is all about a lot of things. It's all about care, competence, humanity, professionalism, and then it's all about security... the security of knowing that there will be nursing staff once you've agreed, and the security of knowing that it's basically the same person who comes every day at the agreed time. I understand that, as older people, stability and security are valued. Do not most of us really have that desire? With the bill here we are making new demands on both municipalities and suppliers. In the event of bankruptcy, municipalities must have contingency plans with guidelines on how to deal with the situation with private suppliers, and local authorities must in future impose requirements on private suppliers. This means that in future the municipalities will have to see accounts, have bank guarantees and make sure that the suppliers have no debts of more than DKK 50,000. to the public, and it all makes sense. Now I would like to emphasise that the post-calculation exercise in particular has been an important fence stake for us in the Left. It is only fair to ensure a uniform starting point. We also have a uniform starting point with the bill, because all parties have agreed to the agreement on which the bill is based, and that certainly points in the right direction. The Left can support the bill as tabled, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that it also supports the bill from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410185034	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Someone regretted it, and that's okay. Then we move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410185048	Thank you for that, President. We in the Enhedslisten also support the bill that lies here; we have also been part of the circle behind the agreement on which the bill is based. Several of my colleagues have already mentioned that we have seen a series of bankruptcies in home care, where private companies that provide home care to older citizens and other citizens who need home help have gone bankrupt. Now I went to Konkursindex.dk today, and there I could see that the latest figures are that today there are about 53 companies that have gone bankrupt; at least 13,090 citizens and at least nearly 2,300 employees in about half of the country's municipalities have been affected. So this is indeed a major problem. It has, of course, caused great inconvenience to citizens who are dependent on a so-su helper or a home helper coming through the door and helping with personal care or providing practical help. We also know that this has had major consequences for employees who have ended up in companies that have gone bankrupt and have not known what was going to happen to themselves, just as it has had consequences for the municipalities. After all, my colleagues have mentioned all this before me. From Enhedslisten's side we believe that the fundamental problem is that the Danish Parliament has dictated in this area that the municipalities should use private suppliers and that in a municipality it is not possible to make the assessment of how it is wise to organise home help itself. This means that the private suppliers, because the municipality has a duty to ensure that help is provided, can play grocery stores in the home help area and close down the business if it is not going as well to make money as it had been hoped, and then it is the municipalities' job to clean up afterwards. We do not think this is a very appropriate way of organizing this area, and I have also noted that there is support for the view of at least some mayors that it is too much of a constraint on the use of private individuals in this area. However, since, according to the legislation in force, municipalities are now forced to use private companies in the care of the elderly, we of course believe that it is sensible for the Danish Parliament to go in and make demands on how to involve and how to cooperate with private suppliers. That is why we are in the agreement behind the bill here. This is also the reason why we, together with the SF and the Alternative, put forward a proposal about a year ago to make a number of demands on private suppliers who provide home help. Some of the demands are also contained in the proposal. It is acting, for example. the requirement for a bank guarantee from the private suppliers, so that it is not the municipality that hangs on the bill in the event of bankruptcy. There was also a demand in our proposal for a contingency plan. So there are some things that we can easily recognize and that we are glad to have brought here. I see it as a step forward. Whether it can prevent bankruptcy? Yes, perhaps to some extent, but I think that I share the assessment that I can also read that the FOA has of it, namely that it is probably most of all a proposal that goes in and mitigates some of the consequences that will be of bankruptcy. Perhaps some bankruptcies can also be prevented, but it is probably first and foremost when we have looked at the schedules of the guarantees to some extent also the last thing that is the case, i.e. that some consequences of bankruptcy are mitigated. But that can also be a good purpose in itself. I agree with some of the follow-up questions raised earlier by Mrs Astrid Krag, on the one hand, with regard to the guidelines for the guidance for the contingency plan and, on the other, with regard to the concerns raised by KL. And I would like to add one more point on which we would like to follow up a little and which concerns the guidelines for the provision of guarantees. Because I have noted that the draft law is very close to the recommendations made by some of the parties in this area. It may be a good idea to include these experiences, but I think it is perhaps also something one-sided if it is only the experience gained from a single municipality, from which, as some of the parties involved in the area, we are based. It could be a slightly broader basis. In conclusion, I would like to add a point which goes a little beyond this proposal, because I think that the most important thing for many of the elderly who receive home help, or relatives of older citizens who depend on home help, is the quality of home help. It is not, of course, whether it is a private or a public supplier that is the most important issue for people; it is of course how much help you can get, whether there is the help you need, in relation to the needs you have, and there we see, unfortunately, that something is happening with quality. Most recently today there was a story about the discussions they have on Bornholm, when they might have to cut back on how often you can shower, and we see, unfortunately, that the quality is too low. That is why I just think it is a reminder that, although this is also important, the most important discussion for us is to ensure a better quality and to ensure that there are sufficient resources for the fact that we are getting older and that there are also more elderly people who need home help in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410185615	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410185625	Thank you for that, President. Our rapporteur in this area takes part in negotiations elsewhere and then looked around the group and saw who had the age for this, and that was me. I can see that this is not the tactic of other parties, so that is the way it is. This is an incredibly important area, because it is a matter of people's close care and help when you need it, and it is, in fact, an area that has had a long run, and therefore there is reason to rejoice today that all parties have been behind what has led to this proposal. After all, the discussion about private/public care has been going on for a long time, and especially at its start there have been many discussions about whether the private parties that should now bid were in a competition with the municipality, where all costs were now included, or whether they were pressed on a false basis. It has often been the discussion whether you were quite sure about it, and it has continued a long way off. Then there have also been some less serious bidders in this area, which has then led to bankruptcy and thus to problems. I just think we should recognise that there has not been the necessary follow-up to it or control, and that these are the elements of this proposal that we should have a contingency plan and that we should ensure that there is some solidity behind the companies that offer. These are good tools. But for the Liberal Alliance, it is actually important that we stick to this and continue to guarantee freedom of choice for the individual, so that it is not just the case that you have to choose between the municipality and the municipality. Many of us have, of course, had family members who have been very close to this service, and I would just like to say that, fortunately, very skilled work is being done by private providers, who also often become better than the municipal one, or that you get the municipal one to be better because there is a competition for it. And if these foundations are provided for contingency plans and economic foundations, I would also say that over time the worst and weakest firms will probably also fall out, and then quality will remain. Fortunately, therefore, there are many good examples of private care being quite excellent, and it is therefore very good that the parties of the Folketing agree to support this proposal, which, when it is put into practice, can become a force, so that we do not have any more of these situations where we have to intervene, because there is a sudden lack of care for tomorrow, and that is bad, and it is obscene, and it is irresponsible. So real competition, freedom of choice and so good and secure economic conditions in these companies, so we avoid bankruptcy. It's an important tool, and that's kind of what we see the contours of here. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410185929	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410185937	In fact, when a private care company goes bankrupt, the big losers are not the company that goes bankrupt, but the older people who need the daily help. For bankruptcy, the recipients of home help are uncertain whether and when they will get the help they so badly need and from whom. About 13,000 elderly people receiving home help have been severely affected in recent years by the bankruptcy of private carers. About 50 bankruptcies we have seen since 2013, and thousands of older people have experienced changing home care in recent years. When private home care companies go bankrupt, it is true that 50 per cent. of the municipalities have a plan for what to do. But that also means that for half of our municipalities it is quite unknown how to provide elderly people with the care and help they need in such a situation. We cannot do that, and I am therefore pleased that we are taking a necessary step today to ensure that it is changed. Let me give you an example: on a Friday afternoon in March around 8 a.m. 17 the senior manager in Favrskov Municipality received a call from a lawyer. The lawyer could tell that the private supplier of home care had been declared bankrupt. This meant that Favrskov Municipality should be ready the morning after kl. 8 to take over the task and help the 73 citizens who were now without home help. Thank God the municipality did the job very well, but one still saw examples of older people who experienced being forgotten in the transition between the systems, and examples of the elderly themselves having to use emergency calls to get the help they needed. These cases are in different order of magnitude. Even more difficult it must have been for the municipality of Lolland, as the last few years were without help to some 400 citizens. This is not an easy task. That is why, as the Enhedslisten mentioned earlier, we have also tabled a motion for a resolution together with the Enhedslisten and the SF to demand that the price, for example, be guaranteed. does not become the only parameter in the selection of private suppliers. So the conclusion is clear. We must have a stable and dignified care of our oldest fellow citizens. In the alternative, we want to have a meaningful life in old age, even if you have a nursing old age. Of course, it must be the individual citizen who is at the heart and, of course, it is the quality of life of the elderly and well that we must start from. Everyone must be sure to be able to get the help they need and claim. Therefore, the alternative was also included in the rate pool agreement on bankruptcies, which requires, for example: contingency plans and bank guarantees, which is why we are also voting in favour of L 209.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410190302	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410190311	For the Radical Left, it is important that you as a citizen of Denmark can be safe when choosing the provider of personal care and practical help. It is whether the supplier is the municipality or a private company. And since for a number of years we have seen a number of bankruptcies in private suppliers with great insecurity, we have radically supported the legislative framework that the municipalities will have to comply with in future. The Radical Left was included in the October agreement, and we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410190351	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410190400	Thank you. How do we put an end to too many bankruptcies in the care of the elderly? Granted, as others have also mentioned, it is a bit of a Gordian knot. On the other hand, it is certain and shown that bankruptcies in the care of the elderly have fatal consequences for the elderly, who are dependent on having help in their daily lives, and every button that can help prevent bankruptcy should be turned around. This is why SF proposed last year that municipalities should require bank guarantees and solid accounts in companies that want to try hard with good and dignified care for the elderly, which should, of course, have much more focus on quality than on how much you can earn from the needs of older people. The proposal was not adopted at the time, but it will now be, thanks to good cooperation with colleagues in the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. I would like to thank you for that. That's really good. Having said that, I agree with both the FOA and the municipalities when they claim that the bank guarantee is only one of a series of buttons that should also be turned on. The area must be closely followed. The budgets in the municipalities are tight and do not match the fact that more and more elderly people will need help. If the municipalities do not receive correspondingly more money for the care of the elderly, this affects both the private suppliers and the municipal care of the elderly. This is among other things. Therefore, we in the SF have also put forward a proposal that budgets in the care of the elderly should be regulated to match demographic developments. And we have put forward proposals that work in the care of the elderly should be organised so that citizens have permanent helpers. Both would facilitate both the work and the everyday life of the elderly. And, above all, it would ensure that bankruptcies due to excessive budget cuts would be reduced and that would increase quality. But one thing at a time. In the SF, we now welcome the fact that we can finally adopt the proposal that we tabled last year and, of course, we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410190611	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And the next to speak is the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410190639	Thank you for your comments and for the positive reception of the bill. The bill is the implementation of the political agreement on the prevention of bankruptcies from October 2017. Here all the parties of the Folketing agreed on an initiative package to help prevent bankruptcies. Since 2013, there have been too many bankruptcies and bankruptcies create insecurity for citizens and employees. At the same time, we know that citizens are happy with free choice in the area of home help, and that is why we should not restrict it. I am therefore pleased that with the political agreement of the autumn there is agreement on preventing bankruptcies. We do, among other things. By making strict demands on both municipalities and private suppliers. With the bill, municipalities must have a written contingency plan with guidelines on how the municipality handles bankruptcies with private home help providers. Local authorities shall carry out the calculation of transfer prices at least once a year if they apply an authorisation system. At the same time, the municipalities must make more demands on the private suppliers, so that we ensure more robust suppliers of home help. The municipalities must require a bank guarantee or equivalent guarantee. A bank guarantee or equivalent guarantee may cover the costs of any bankruptcy. It can, for example, be done. be for exceptional temporary agency coverage. Municipalities must also require presentation of tax and audited accounts. Finally, private suppliers must demonstrate that there is no debt due at the time of the contract of DKK 50,000. or above to public authorities. We will probably never be able to completely avoid bankruptcy in the area of home help, but these measures will help prevent bankruptcy while ensuring that municipalities are better equipped to deal with possible bankruptcies. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for receiving the bill and for the debate here today. I am pleased that there remains a broad consensus on the initiatives that we agreed in the autumn. Then two questions were asked by Mrs Astrid Krag. One was the question of a central guidance for contingency plans. Our joint political agreement on the prevention of bankruptcies shows that an understanding is sought with the KL to disseminate experience and tools to strengthen the ability of municipalities to become aware of warning signals in the form of e.g.: poor economy or breach of contractual obligations. It is also clear from the agreement that the development of the tools can be about the preparation of contingency plans, and we are in dialogue with KL to help the municipalities to improve supply management. To the second question from Mrs Astrid Krag that KL does not believe that the municipalities have the necessary conditions to assess the accounts they are getting, I would say that with the bill we oblige private suppliers to send accounts to the municipality. And the municipalities now have a great deal of experience in concluding contracts with private suppliers, among others. in the area of home help. I would therefore also think that the municipalities should have the competence to assess what the accounts of a private supplier are. And, by the way, they already do so in several places, for example. in Odense Municipality. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, of course, I respond to the questions that the committee had to put to me during the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410191047	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180410191106	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 11 April 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
