ParlaMint-DK_20180518100015	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others.: Question No. F 38 (What can the government say about the development of EU defence policy cooperation and what ambitions does the government have in relation to the Danish defence reserve? ) The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment has informed me that, pursuant to Rule 12 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment has been informed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4, has taken up Bill No. 160 (Proposal for a law amending the daily offer law and the law on primary school) to be referred back to committee between the second and third readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518100058	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518100115	Thank you. We have reached the annual regional and rural policy statement. After all, every year the government has to present an account of the status of what might be called a Denmark in balance. How is growth, welfare and good life spreading throughout Denmark? Where should a little more be lifted, where does it run on its own, should there be dampened in some places, how are things going? Overall, it has to be said that the statement reflects an optimistic view, which I, as a Socialist, share, a view that when things go better in Denmark as a whole in terms of employment, population growth and housing sales, such key parameters, well then things are actually better not only in the largest cities, but also in our rural areas and in all five regions. But it is also the case that municipalities are still very challenged. There are still municipalities which are still experiencing a decline in employment and a decline in population. That is why it has not been done with this statement. More coal needs to be put on, much more needs to be done to ensure better conditions for growth, jobs and education throughout Denmark. There is no doubt that this statement by the government has listed some of the old figures here in the Danish Parliament, which certainly contribute to a better balance. These are measures such as the planning agreement and measures such as the relocation of state jobs. These are positive measures that we Social Democrats are involved in in a conciliation and support. What is then not mentioned here in the statement are the elements of government policy which, unfortunately, are drawing the opposite path, which is not only socially wrong, but also geographically wrong. I am thinking in particular of three areas: 1) the Government's repeated proposals for top tax relief. It's one of the most geographically skewed things you can give. We have seen the maps printed in the country's newspapers. Where's the prize? It is primarily in the North Zealand. Where isn't the prize? It's in our rural areas. 2) The Government's repeated proposals for housing tax, which will only benefit the cities. And, most recently, the proposal from at least several of the governing parties to abolish, or at least lower, the inheritance tax. You can figure out that this is something that is socially wrong, but it is also geographically wrong. This will mean that there will be a further division between land and city, east and west, north and south, small and large. It is distorting Denmark, and we do not need it. We need the opposite. That is why I am pleased that until now a majority in the Folketing has managed to prevent the plans for top tax relief and prevent the government's plans for a new housing tax. And hopefully the same majority will also succeed in preventing the proposal for a reduction in inheritance tax. Let's take a concrete look at the latest example here: If you look at two different areas of Denmark, Gentofte as one just north of Copenhagen and as the other Lolland, which is a rural area, then the legacy of single people that you can get in Gentofte is on average seven times higher than the legacy you can get on Lolland seven times higher. Therefore, it is clear that if you want to relax such a tax, the prize is seven times higher in Gentofte than it is on Lolland. That is why we think it is socially wrong and the wrong use of our funds, and it is also geographically wrong. Another issue I would like to raise is the repeated savings on the country's upper secondary education, which are still being rolled out. This affects, in particular, the slightly smaller upper secondary education in our rural areas. In fact, since the parliamentary elections, 4,000 posts have been cut around the Danish educational establishments. This is 4,000 teachers and employees, and it actually means that the total calculation is such that, even though the government has also, with our support, moved jobs out of the capital, there are still fewer public jobs outside the capital today than there were two years ago, because there have been such sharp cuts in what is really important, namely training, which is also located outside the largest cities. The last thing I want to mention is that they are less but of great importance: cuts in LAG funds, funds for local action groups, which have been a thundering success and have meant a lot of jobs and a lot of concrete projects that would not have happened if we had not had the scheme. It is therefore constantly incomprehensible that the government should insist on cutting back on such a system that is so popular and gives so much growth, development, optimism and innovation in the Danish rural areas and villages. Enough about the government, now I will focus my last part of the speech on what Social Democracy has of alternatives. In addition to the parts in the statement here, which we naturally support, we have proposed and will continue to propose: 1) an evaluation of municipal reform, which is probably the most centralist reform in recent Danish history. 2) A parliamentary ban on centralisation, which means that from here we have to look into each other's eyes and, by a broad majority, stop further centralisation. 3) We have also proposed the creation of four new tax centres located in the different Danish regions except the capital, which has plenty of tax workers. 4) When it comes to education, which I have mentioned in the past, our alternative to the cuts is to continue and transfer welfare education to the whole of Denmark and to draw up a concrete plan for the relocation of welfare education. It may be educational education, teacher training, social and health schools, which are what you really need in our municipalities. We know that if the young people have to travel too many kilometres, they do not defect or get an education. So it means a lot to get those educations out locally. 5) We have a proposal for local welfare centres in our villages where you can think of the old-fashioned assembly house new and put some municipal services into such a local welfare center. 6) Of course, we also stand by our railway fund proposal, which is not least a massive investment in public transport throughout Denmark. (7) We have proposed a national coastal protection fund because we believe it is a historic task that we are facing, which is also a national task: to secure our coasts, especially with regard to the climate change that we are in the middle and facing. 8) Last time we proposed, with our growth initiative, to give more funds to the Growth Fund, which is directly targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises, many of which are in our rural areas. To conclude, Denmark is a fantastic country. We are not the world's largest country, and therefore it is not right that there is so much difference between where you go in Denmark. And you really shouldn't drive far from one part to another until you experience huge differences. For us, the big cities cannot do anything without rural areas, but the rural areas cannot do anything without the big cities. Therefore, it must be about reuniting Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101011	Thank you. There are some comments. First, it's sir. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101014	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. After all, the rapporteur and I work closely together on rural areas every day, and I know the commitment of the rapporteur when it comes to rural areas. But that does not mean that the rapporteur and I look at things the same way. If the rapporteur is now doing so much of the inheritance tax, which will also mean that it will be easier and cheaper to regenerate in rural areas, where we have many of the family and privately owned companies that create growth and employment, then I would like to hear how all the initiatives mentioned by the rapporteur will help to ensure that there is a more equal relationship between those who will inherit Lolland-Falster and those who inherit Gentofte. Because I do not think that any of the things that will mean achieving a more socially balanced distribution, if that is the objective. That was one question. The second question is that the rapporteur said that the Social Democratic Party would ensure that the education courses that were citizens-friendly here I am thinking of education for primary school teachers, educators, social workers, etc. We already have those opportunities today. As a Bornholmer, I can see that we have courses for both educator, teacher and social counsellor. It's called paid training. The opportunities are already there today. The last question is about all the initiatives and centralisation measures that the rapporteur would like to bring together in large funds. Last time the rapporteur's party was in government, a similar attempt was made, and this meant savings in municipalities and regions. How will this benefit rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101150	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101151	Thank you very much for the three questions. The first question concerns the inheritance tax. The number I read out is a correct number. I do not know whether the rapporteur from the Left has had the opportunity to see the report of the Workers' Trade Council which appeared yesterday or the day before, and which very precisely defines that if you choose to facilitate or abolish the inheritance tax, it is quite clearly a huge gift to the most well-off people I am sorry to use the word beach waybillionaires, but it is there, in North Zealand, that you will make the most of it. As I read, Gentofte gets seven times as much out of such a relief as you do on Lolland. I don't think that's fair to Lolland. Then we are asked about the education programmes, and there we have unfortunately seen that there are many courses closed and that there are 4 000 fewer employees on our upper secondary educations in the country since the government arrived and the small courses are under pressure on the economy, and this may, unfortunately, result in direct closures or cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101315	I just have to say that the rapporteur has no policy on the shelf. If the rapporteur's main problem is, you do not have the same assets on Lolland-Falster and in Gentofte that is how it sounds, how will the rapporteur's party correct it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101334	After all, I mentioned a large number of proposals that we Social Democrats have put forward and put forward, so the fact that we do not have a policy on the shelf is completely incomprehensible to me. I have no problem with some people in Denmark being well off. I have a problem with the fact that, as a government, they will be given an additional billions of relief in their economic policy, while rural areas will have small crumbs. This is a geographical problem which I think the government should consider very, very carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101412	Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101414	Thank you. Yes, we came a long way with top tax and inheritance tax, I have to say that when I look at what this statement is about. But leave it alone. What actually made me press the button was thinking about education. Now I have been working in that sector for a very, very long time, and we have the self-employed in the education sector, where boards and management decide where the training should be located. It's very thoughtful, because if you do it wrong, you can go downstairs and go home. There are constant economic considerations as to whether there are needs and so on. You want me to understand that, sir? Magnus Heunicke disagrees with the way he organizes himself? Does the state now have to transfer training? I understood it in this way that welfare education should go to the regions to a greater extent than is the case today. Are we heading for a new model of governance if we one day have a new government, so that it is in here from Slotsholmen that we define where individual education should be, whether there is need or not, and no matter what the cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101528	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101529	Thank you for the question and, in particular, thank you for coming from the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, whom I have praised in the past for his tireless work in order to get education into the province, and I would like to do that again. If you take the train past Slagelse on track 1, you can see that there is the building of the University of Southern Denmark. It has to be said that this sort of thing does not come naturally; it requires someone to really work for it, and it is not least the Liberal Alliance rapporteur who has done so. So thank you for the effort that really matters in the region that has the least education. But it also shows very well that something more needs to be done. And when we talk about professional high schools, which are the ones we define as welfare education, our very clear goal is that more young people should be able to take welfare education within a distance of 30 km. All experience shows, according to one study, that's where we have the pain threshold. After all, this requires a more balanced distribution, and that is why we have proposed, not a new steering mechanism, which is being asked, but the creation of an economic model in which there is a greater incentive to maintain and maintain training places in a decentralised manner. This need not only be up to the bottom line at a board meeting, there should also be an economic incentive to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101641	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101642	Thanks for the line. Another thing that just hit me was the comments on the Train Fund DK. And now it is a former Minister of Transport that we have in the square. And that's why Mr. Magnus Heunicke well that Togfonden DK was something with 28.5 billion. kr. Or something like that. And then we were also going to buy lightning trains... we didn't really have them with us... and that's maybe 15-20 billion. kr. Upstairs. That's a lot of money. Is it sensible to do something good for the weak outermost regions? I believe, in my book, that it will primarily benefit the Djøfs from the ministries that are going to meet in the country, or the other way, i.e. some who are going to Copenhagen, public employees. Thank you, President-in-Office. ) Compared with the very few extras that will come and where it costs between 5 and 10 million. kr. per Is it a good effort, then, for the areas which we know are very heavily affected in the very outermost regions and where growth and employment go down? President Yes, please! ) Is it a train fund for so many billions of dollars?
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101751	I would ask you to keep to the speaking time, and that applies to everyone, both rapporteurs and those who ask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101758	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. As you know, the train fund DK has a positive socio-economic situation; there is a reasonable internal rate of interest, which is what we always assess transport projects on the basis of. One more thing: when you travel around the kingdom and visit these station towns, you can see that if there's something you measure, it's how long it takes to get from A to B, and if you can get there a little faster. And today it is just the case that the timetables have not improved, travel time has not been reduced since the 1950s in many places. In some places it even takes longer to travel from a station city and somewhere else. And this is a step to reduce travel time. And I think that is very, very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101840	Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101842	Following on from that and just to inform the debate, I would just like to ask the former Minister for Transport, Mr President. Magnus Heunicke, to confirm that in part of the Train Fund DK we set aside over 1 billion. kr. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101914	Thank you for that question. I can confirm that. I did not have time to say this because we have to keep to our speaking time. I have just received from the President-in-Office of the Council, and thank you for that. So I can confirm that. That's right. And I may be a little sad that the debate on the Train Fund DK has become a lot of this one hour between the big cities; it is an important thing, but it is certainly not the only thing. It is thus a powerful upgrade only that we now have our Danish railroad electrified. There are two countries in Europe that do not. It is Denmark, and it is Albania. Now we are also electrified, which means that we can buy some trains that can actually also drive. And all of Denmark's commuters are satisfied with this and I don't think it's only public employees who sit on our train.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518101953	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518102010	I have a small puppy of 4 months, which unfortunately came to bite a little in my rural statement, and actually I can understand my dog, because when I look at the rural statement, I actually think it is quite edible overall. There is an increase in employment and in the population of rural areas; job relocation is going quite well; and then there is even a small crack in the population curve of the small islands, so it is going up again, and we in the Danish People's Party just hope that it will continue to do so. Two years ago, in the Danish People's Party, we made a proposal to increase the base allowance for holiday rentals. Fortunately, the summer houses are located in our good rural areas, and it is the case that every rental summer house generates an average of DKK 300,000. per year to the local area in which it is located. This means that it is money that goes directly into the pockets of private operators in rural areas; they go to the cleaning lady; they go to the craftsman; they go to the grocery store, to the swimming pools, to the museums, etc. At that time only the Minister's party, the Conservative People's Party, supported the Danish People's Party's proposal and I am glad that we have now obtained a majority in favour of it. That's great. And that will mean that there will actually be approx. 1,000 more rental summer houses on the market. 1,000 more rental summer houses on the market means 300 million. kr. extra for the private sector in rural areas. And it is money that does not even come by moving out Copenhageners and they get mad about it, no, we invest in the people who already live in rural areas, and I think that is absolutely fantastic. I would also like to say that there is room for improvement in the rural statement. In Chapter 3, there is a section called "Cheaper ferry charges'. Recently I was called by a journalist who was supposed to portray me, and then he says: And then you are also the woman behind the cheap tickets to the islands, but I know you don't like it being said that way. And then I said, no, I don't like that. Because when we in the Danish People's Party raised it with the traffic equality, it was precisely because we wanted traffic equality It should not cost more to sail to an island than it costs to drive the same route on the road. It does not cost anything to go on a road, nor does it cost anything to ride on a road, but you still take away the fare when you transport cyclists and pedestrians to the islands. It doesn't cost anything when you're on the road, compared to whether you're one, two or four in the car. Nevertheless, it is necessary to pay per person. passenger, when you transport people to the islands. So we still have a long way to go before we are in line with traffic equality. But my concern is that when the government writes in the statement cheaper ferry fares and when we in the Danish People's Party fight for traffic equality, then we are far apart from each other. So I hope that the government will agree that what we are fighting for together, and what is our goal, is the traffic equality in relation to the islands. I hope that both the government and the other parties will help us to achieve what is missing. I would also like to say that regardless of whether you are the director of a company or whether you are the Minister of Business, it is actually very important to use people for what they are best at, and the business rapporteurs in the Danish Parliament are very good at safeguarding the Danish business community; they are very good at taking initiatives that make it easier to be entrepreneurs in Denmark. They're really good at that, and it's amazing. We rural rapporteurs, on the other hand, are very good at taking care of rural development; we are very good at dealing with the development of the small villages in Denmark. So, once the Committee on viable villages has come forward with their report and it has to be debated and we have to discuss it, then I would urge the Minister to put forward the strongest team and invite the rural rapporteurs to the negotiations. When it comes to getting even more people to move to rural areas, we politicians have a huge task. In order for a lot of measures to be taken to make sense at all, we need to start by looking at the basics, and that is people's mentality around rural areas and islands. How do we view them? How do we talk about them politically? In England you have a term for living in a rural area, and it's called "the good life," the good life out here we live the good life. They also have a magazine called Country Living, which pays tribute to living in the countryside. So when you talk about rural areas in England, you do it with a good feeling. And it is the same good feeling that we who live in rural areas have when we sit in our homes surrounded by the beautiful nature; we see the seasons changing; we see the deer in the garden; we talk to our neighbours; we talk to those we meet in the supermarket because we really get to know each other much more in rural areas. There we just feel really good, and we need to be able to explain that feeling, and we need to be able to pass it on to others. And it can just make it really difficult with the media we have, which would rather focus on lack of infrastructure and lack of mobile coverage, etc. At one point, a reporter from TV 2 News called me to talk about school closures in rural areas, and she said that it is quite awful for the poor children to close schools and then you have a longer way there and it can water down villages and so on. And for a while, she actually tricked me into thinking that she even cared about rural areas. When she asked me if I wanted to be interviewed, and I said that I would be happy to do so, but that it depends on whether TV 2 News's concern for rural areas was so great that one might even consider moving into a rural area, because right now I was actually at home in my house at Mols, then the interest was not there. And that is actually what we are seeing with the media in general, that is, when they have to move into rural areas, it is not that interesting anymore. There is just not the same coverage of good life in rural areas. And frankly, I think that we politicians can be better able to say that when they receive state aid, we can therefore also require them to cover the whole country widely. I don't think it matters that we can move Radio24syv to Jutland, honestly, we have Radio24syv, and we have Denmark's Radio, both of which are 100% state-funded, and they're both in Copenhagen; that doesn't make any sense. But that is not the only thing that needs to be moved into the province. We also need to be better at moving education into the province. We must also be better at moving even more state jobs into the province. And we need to be better at moving them even further into the province so that they get out on the islands and into the very small parishes. We have a lot to do to get even more Danes to see the good life that lives out there, where it's the most beautiful to live. But I also think we can enjoy what we have achieved. And with the help of the government and with the help of my other capable colleagues from all parties, I think I can actually say that we are not standing still. A lot of improvements are constantly being made, and let us continue to work at the same pace and with the same commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518102803	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518102806	Would Mrs Hjermind Dencker agree that the major municipal reform from the 00s in particular, but also the resulting reforms, the judicial reform, the police reform and something like that, has been a part of the process, and it was reforms that the Danish People's Party supported to drag Denmark wrong and that we are still struggling with the aftermath of those reforms?
ParlaMint-DK_20180518102841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518102842	Yes, I would like to admit that centralisation, which is among other things. The reforms are also, as Mr. Henning Hyllested mentions, so much has helped to draw Denmark in the wrong direction. I don't want to be without it either. I don't want to be without it, so we were back to the way it used to be with the municipalities. This has had a positive effect, but it has also done something about rural areas, and there is nothing to say about that, and we must clearly correct that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518102912	Sir. Hyllested place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518102913	I very much agree with that. We should correct that, but then I would like to see Mrs Hjermind Dencker's proposal on how to correct it. I am well aware that there will now be an answer in the direction of moving jobs out and something like that. I consider this to be a kind of excuse for those reforms, but what are we doing about the fundamentals of the imbalance in the reforms in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20180518102939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518102940	Well, that's where we have to be better at, for example. to say to the individual judicial institutions that they must actually take advantage of what they can do. When, for example, The right to change in Grenaa works, so there are many lawyers who do not want to drive that way, and therefore there are many cases that are settled in Randers. I remember at one point we looked at it and said: okay, if we are to be realistic, in relation to how little activity there had been in the court in Grenaa, then that would be like there had been no divorces in the year that had not been anyone who had died etc. When those who have to do it, the lawyers and the judges, do not bother to move, and they just take the dishes in the big cities, then I think we should be better at saying, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, that's where it's supposed to be. So that's some of what we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518103032	There are no more comments. Thank you to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518103046	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by commending the Minister and, therefore, the government for a good and comprehensive statement which, in addition to providing a good basis for today's debate on the development of our rural areas, also provides a good overview of developments and what has happened in our rural areas. Before going much further, I would also like to welcome the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party and say that they are behind my rapporteur's speech and that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservatives in this matter. The conclusion of the statement must therefore be that the focus that the government has had has made a difference, which can not only be read in the statement, but in fact is also the picture we meet when we as committees come around the country. There is optimism, there is hope, and there are visions and dreams in our rural areas. The 120 rural initiatives, of which 110 have been implemented, and the 9 billion. kr. in the period from 2015 until 2019 has given rise to growth, has given optimism and has given renewed courage. The glove has been taken up: fire-souls, municipal councils, associations and businesses have set the rural areas in motion, as we have never seen before. There is growth, there is development and it is actually going well. Well, the government's policy has made such a difference. It is clearly felt that Denmark has a rural government. But we're not at the end of the road yet. In general, population growth appears to be steadily increasing in the areas around the large cities, while parts of the more peripheral areas are experiencing a standstill. In the Left, we are ready to continue working to ensure a better balance and balance throughout the country, even when it comes to population growth. I would like to go through the 120 initiatives in all, but that does not allow the speaking time. But let me instead draw attention to the fact that there is work to be done. Rural and urban development is not at the same rate. The Left will therefore continue to focus on rural areas. But I don't want it to end up being a either-or-discussion. In Denmark, strong rural areas are needed, but strong cities are also needed. In short: Country and city are each other's prerequisites. From Christiansborg's side, attention must continue to be paid to the fact that there are no two rural areas that are similar. In other words, when the legislator sets the framework, it should not be one size fits all, no, it should be initiatives that support the development of something locally. It must be initiatives that support initiative and our fiery souls. Our rural areas are very different, so the greatest help we can give to rural areas is to unleash freedom, remove bureaucracy and unnecessary regulation and support steps in the right direction. Finally, as chairman of the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands, I would like to thank the Minister for his cooperation, but I would also like to thank my colleagues here in the Danish Parliament and, above all, in the committee and commend them all for their good and serious work. In fact, I think that all of you are doing the rural areas honour. I would also like to thank the partners all around and to thank all the areas and islands where we have either opened our doors or come by to dress the committee better to do what we are set up in the world for, namely to ensure that growth and employment are something that is happening not only in the larger cities but throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518103437	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. There are no brief comments, and then we can move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518103456	After all, we in the Enhedslisten believe that there are still many problems in relation to rural areas, but there is certainly progress to be made, and this is also evident from the rural policy statement that has been made. It's a nice day and good weather, so let's just start on the plus side and say that we're like... the reduced ferry rates. After all, it has been a huge success, and we hear nothing else from the islands but that far, by far, in most places, it has been a huge success. This has led to an increase in tourism and in some places, in fact, an increase in settlements. It is a very good thing, and I think one of the reasons was that we, together with the government, did so in such a way, what should we say, very much local influence by the municipalities and by the islands, in relation to how we would organise these tariff reductions each, and therefore they have also become different. The emphasis has been on something different around, and I think that has certainly helped us to see the success of the reduced ferry tariffs. Yesterday we had all the parties in the Danish Parliament, even Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten) made a teleconciliation, and it is not because we find it extremely ambitious, but there are actually some improved possibilities. It can be said that where the market does not strike, the first thing is in our outermost regions. There are, in fact, still some 250 000 households in this country suffering from poor mobile and Internet connections, and it is, in fact, essential to ensure settlement and also business development today that there are good and fast Internet connections and mobile connections, as there are in the rest of the country. That is absolutely crucial, and it is of course gratifying that the teleconciliation process should begin, although it is not enough at all. However, otherwise it is clear that we are out of the crisis and that it is of course also contagious in many parts of rural areas. However, I think that we are still struggling with the consequences of the major reforms of centralisation from the 00s. In my question to Mrs Hjermind Dencke, I have already mentioned the municipal reform, and I think it is a very good initiative from the Social Democratic Party that we should probably sit down and evaluate it and find out whether it might not have to be adjusted on some points. The Court of Justice reform and police reform have also been mentioned, and it was all reforms that speeded up the exodus from one country to another which is already taking place and which, moreover, is a global trend beyond a trend in Denmark. But in Denmark it got an extra boost by means of these reforms, and compared with the economic iron grip in which the municipalities and regions are kept, this naturally meant that they experienced school closures and cuts in public transport, etc. etc., all things that contributed to the migration. One of the government's major battle numbers has then been 'yes' in this regard, as I have called it indulgence in moving a number of state jobs to the province. It has obviously been an expensive affair, and I am sure there is soon not the governing body that does not experience an extension of the processing times. It is quite clear that the plan is underfunded, and that means, of course, in that it must govern and advise so itself clear, actually indirect cuts around the budgets. From Enhedslisten's side, we think it might be a very good idea to move jobs to the province, but this should be done on the basis of a comprehensive and thoroughly analysed plan, where, moreover, much more is being done to get the employees in the past. That is very much what has been the problem, i.e. that they do not move out, and therefore you lose both experience and knowledge, and this naturally means that you have to spend a lot of effort and money on training new labour, and that means extended processing times around. We may think on the part of Enhedslisten that there could be much more idea in transferring courses. We know that young people prefer to be educated in the vicinity of where they live. We can see that it actually has a positive effect on young people if they can get to education near where they live. It is true that the government has actually opened up that part of the so-called second wave of relocations, but what has been shown there is also rather unambitious. It must, if I may say so, be much more the whole of education that is being moved. It should not be part of an education where people are still about to move at some point, with the danger of not getting it done. I also think it is gratifying to see that in some of the governing parties at least there has been a reaction to this very massive relocation and this massive, what should we call it, I think it will be called Copenhagenerbashing in the discussion. I think that's fine. It is a realism and a self-knowledge that is spreading, although this is due to the prospect of a poor election result in the cities around us. But it doesn't matter. It's a good thing there's some realization around here. I do not think that has been mentioned at all, nor does it appear from the statement that we have received, as far as I can see, that the misguided compensatory reform counts on the negative side. This was an obvious opportunity to correct some of the imbalances, which are, of course, economical between the municipalities, but in our opinion this had to be done by adding more funds to the municipal service around. Instead, they turned it into a zero-sum game, and then it was entirely expected that the municipalities would fight among themselves. They were actually about to tear the KL apart, and now you've started the economic negotiations, but they started fighting among themselves, instead of sitting down at the table and simply demanding some more money and getting a little bit out of this economic iron grip you're being held in. For boring things, I think we still have to see it there, should we not just call the petty cut in LAG funds? Well, it was bald 30 million. kr. The amount was cut by some 90 million. kr. We thought it was worth rolling back. We know that the LAG funds have a really, really big importance around, and it's a really good shoulder flap for a lot of the fire souls who work with things around. Then perhaps we do not think that the modernised planning law is such a positive thing. In fact, we believe that it can help to pull the curtain away during coastal tourism, contrary to what is actually claimed to be the aim. In other words, the tourists come here to see what has been done to experience the wild, pristine nature of our coasts and where, moreover, there is free access, and I must say that the horrors of the experimental scheme that has been launched around us are a clear warning of what is waiting for when the municipalities are released, as is the case with the modernised law on plans. I think that demographic development and population demography around our islands are a cause for concern, and this is also reflected in the statement. There are also major differences between the different islands, but the trend is that there is one, what is to say, ageing population or older population, and that there is still a migration from many of our islands. There, I believe, some kind of common strategy plan is needed, with a number of joint initiatives that should apply to all the islands, rather like what we have done with ferry tariffs, but I also believe that there needs to be some joint marketing of our islands. The fact is that the islands have much more in common with each other than they actually have with the municipalities of which they are part. I think that is a potential that we are not exploiting at all today and which I think we should try to develop, of course in cooperation with, for example. Association of Danish Small Islands. Then we have just received recommendations from the Committee on viable villages, some excellent recommendations, but, I think, a little loose in the contours. We need a little more cash. We need, for example, the villages, the village guilds around us to be equipped with some rights. We have often referred to the Sønderborg model, where village guilds are, as it were, fitted with rights, go together, are equipped with economics and can trump city council members in their rural committee etc. We ourselves have also had a number of concrete proposals in this area. Villages in a broad sense should also be able to carry mail, transport villagers around, back and forth and be able to retrieve books from the library. There should be no limits to what a village janitor should be able to do. We have also proposed support for user-owned and user-driven shops around, in addition to, as I have mentioned, mobile coverage, which we are now involved in the telecoms settlement around, and public transport. We have been talking about the railway fund DK, and it is also a boost for rural areas, and I think we should also try to bring the region's time model for their bus operations into the discussion much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104521	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104525	Thank you. I have once learned from an older colleague in the Danish Parliament that when you take the floor in Parliament, you should like to build what you say around a skeleton, praise, rice, praise, and I will try to do that here too. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a fine rapporteur's speech. That was the first praise. Then there comes a little rice here, which is also a question. The rapporteur said that the municipalities were being held in an economic straitjacket. Can the rapporteur not confirm that when the rapporteur's party was a support party for a previous government, money was removed from our municipalities? Now we have contributed a great deal of money to our municipalities, and that is also why we have made a little more progress in our rural areas. We have supported a great many initiatives on the ground, and this leads to growth and employment. And then the last praise. How glad I am that Enhedslisten has dared take responsibility and join the teleconciliation. The rapporteur's party should be very commended for this. Finally, I would like to say that I clearly share the rapporteur's ambition that population growth would have been good and, as the rapporteur, I would also like to do something about it. The problem is that the rapporteur and I are reaching an age where it is a little difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104638	I believe, about the economic iron grip I was talking about in the municipalities, that this is something that happens every year in the annual economic negotiations. I believe that it is a fact that the very, very harsh means used by the municipalities have contributed to the declining welfare that has been around. In fact, more than 36 000 jobs have been lost in public welfare, for example, and this is the result of the lack of adequate finance for the municipalities. It also complains to the municipalities themselves, and I wonder every year during the economic negotiations that you do not go harder to the government. In fact, under the previous government, the state was provided with quite harsh means if the municipalities did not comply with those budgets, but we are firmly opposed to that. We believe that there should be much more economy in the municipalities than we see today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104742	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104744	I just take this as an indication that more money has been allocated to the municipalities today than there was when the rapporteur's party was a party to the support of the then government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104755	I would say that, although we were the support party then, we did not support that government in everything it did, nor did we support it in that. On the contrary, we urged the municipalities and the National Association of Municipalities to make more of that every year and take the fight with the state and with the changing governments to make some more money available, because the way things are running today goes beyond the bourgeois welfare, and this has also contributed to rural areas, for example. close schools and keep going.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104823	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518104835	Thank you to the Minister for Industry for an impressive statement, I think. Now I know that you can see reality very differently, whether you are a citizen of Lemvig or sitting in a café at Strøget in Copenhagen, but to say that government and Parliament are not interested in rural areas and islands and leave them in the lurch must be very difficult if you see this summary of initiatives that we are now presented with. I think that one can be completely out of breath by the 17 closely-written pages, and the strong thing about the report is that it is not just words, but actually a string of efforts and actions, of course large and small, but things that have been decided and set in motion. Yesterday, as has already been mentioned, we saw the teleconciliation, which was presented and finally targeted. Then I won't mention the over 14 billion. DKK, which Copenhagen mayors send out into rural areas via the compensation scheme. It's of course something quite different, but after all, an important parameter in the overall picture when you evaluate these things. Even with this effort, we all know that it will be extremely difficult to keep up with the big cities when it comes to growth and employment. We do not necessarily think that this should be an ambition either, because there is an opportunity to live out some other values that cities cannot offer. I heard the Danish People's Party talk about the good life in the country. I do not want to repeat that, but it is not comparable in size, nor should it be. With regard to the methods that we, as a society, need to use when supporting rural areas and islands, we in the Liberal Alliance will probably propose that we aim more than now to strengthen the framework conditions for the dominant industries in rural areas rather than the infinite number of support schemes. They may also be useful, but it is now healthier to bet on a more self-reliant model, for example. is coastal tourism, and we just heard the example of vacation rental, and how much it can give, and the food industry, which will be the driver, rather than a very comprehensive support regime. I have once seen a calculation • actually from the Reichsregningen • on what is given in support per. Person on our islands, isn't it 23-24 islands we have? If you add them up and divide them up and see what a single islander can cost, I would say this in a pragmatic way, that I really do not want to mention it at all, because I think it would be too provocative, but it is really, very much money that we spend in the outermost regions, and even if the bill has not been settled, we also know that the relocation of state jobs has already been mentioned, some call it forced relocations of jobs to the province. I am not saying this because we do not support these very concrete initiatives, but I think we should remind each other that this significant boost is an innovation in rural policy. It takes courage, and you don't always make friends in that account. We believe that, in the light of common sense, when needs and demand are to meet, we should take a break in these coercive measures and then instead focus on the strengths that are natural for rural life. A proposal to the Minister for Industry could be, not to provoke, but to make the overall effort visible to relevant places, to sacrifice a single stamp and send the statement directly to the many mayors we often see in here, who come up and discuss ferry tariffs, equalisation, demolition pools and much more. In fact, I think the report can bear that. I myself was very surprised, as I indicated at the beginning, at how massive an effort we are really making for rural areas when you pool it and see it in a context, and that is what must be important when we as Parliament work on these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105308	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105311	Sir. Villum Christensen would not mention the amount that an islander, I think, cost Danish society. That might be interesting. But was there in that remark and the fact that you wouldn't publish the amount that you really think it's too expensive? In that case, I have to ask: should that amount be reduced? It must, of course, come from various aid schemes of one kind or another, such as Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Villum Christensen mentioned it. Should we cut back, and if so, what are some aid schemes that might have to be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105355	I am not saying here that we need to remove a lot of subsidies, because of course there are some particular challenges on the islands. However, I think it is wise that we sometimes also see such support regimes in relation to the proportions that go with it. And that is why I think that dividing up the number in the whole can sometimes be a very healthy exercise, so that we know how much money we spend. I have promised not to publish the figure; that is why I am not saying it. But I think it's possible to figure out that when you need to have your own recycling station you have to have your own of everything that you have in the big cities too... it must be very, very expensive. And we have to be aware of that. I just think the remark should be seen in the light that when you pool things, you can sometimes get completely out of breath about how much money we spend on that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105456	Sir. Henning Hyllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105458	In other words, some of the additional costs you have to the islands are, for example, those of the islands. transport costs. We have now reduced ferry tariffs by means of subsidies, and we already have the island map system for those who live there. I am also in favour of this being clearly part of Mr Beazley's report. Villum Christensen knowledge that the municipalities also have some costs in having the islands. But it also relates to the special conditions that are about to have residents on an island and, as I said, transport over there. This is also the case, for example. The LAG funds? We have discussed this a great deal, because the cuts made by the government on LAG funds are quite unfair to me, even because it is a relatively small amount. Will Mr. Perhaps Villum Christensen will be helping to roll back the cut in LAG funds that has been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105549	Now you can always pinpoint a single system and say: What about it? I tried to suggest before that we should see it in a broader context. When you saw what it cost per. I also believe that these figures were actually extreme. But I know that they were very much appreciated in rural areas. I've been involved in managing something here myself. It is good to get such gifts from the public and to launch initiatives for the local use or whatever it might be. But as politicians, we need to give priority to the few resources that are available, and that is why I think that transparency is so important. What is it that we get out of it and what is it that costs per person? citizen? It is wise to look at every once in a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105637	I would like to make a comment on this. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105642	Thank you. Quite in line with my good colleague Henning Hyllested, I would just like to say to the rapporteur: it is so that, in order for our islands to function as a very good whole-year-old society, where there are people living all year round, children going to school and something like that, it costs. Then it's just expensive, and we can't compare it at all to any city. I am really, really sorry that the rapporteur makes any reference to comparing this, because it is a prerequisite that we invest in the islands, so we have to ask ourselves: do we want the islands, or do we not want the islands? And if the rapporteur wants us to cut back on support for the islands in any way, then I really, really would like to know. If the Liberal Alliance wants there to be some areas where we have to cut back on rural areas and islands, please let me know.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105737	Now it's Friday, and the sun's shining. I don't think we need to spoil the good mood. Well, I just said that it's important that we support with our eyes open. I didn't say at any time that we had to cut back. As a state auditor, I have been around and met the various people on the islands, and they are chaste about e.g. the reduction of ferry tariffs. It is pure gold for them, and we were very, very well met even if we had to wear the sharp glasses. A report has also been made on what we have said, that this has been well done. So I have no desire for us to cut back, but we also need to know how much we give. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105821	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105823	Well, like the rapporteur, I have also been on the Rural Committee since 2011. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the first rural statement we have seen since 2011 when there has been a positive population crack in the small islands, where the figure is actually beginning to rise? And can the rapporteur confirm that this is probably due to the fact that we in Christiansborg have chosen to invest in transport equality? And can the rapporteur please say whether the rapporteur does not think it is worth the whole journey?
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105903	Yes, it is positive, and I believe in particular that it is the ferry tariffs that have been the key driver for some of the islands also to grow. You can't say anything bad about that. I also believe that the overall development of prosperity is important. I believe that technology development is important. There are many parameters that make it possible to stay a little further away than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105928	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments. And then we have the next rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken, who, in agreement with Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen has switched the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518105940	Thank you very much. I have been allowed to give our rapporteur's speech because he cannot be here in the Chamber, and I thank the alternative rapporteur for having to do this before 8 a.m. 11:00. Denmark's biggest challenge is whether we have enough people to carry out the tasks we need: Are there enough doctors, enough sosus etc. etc., enough talented people of every kind to be able to provide welfare and generate income in our business? It's in town and on land. The statement well describes that more people are going to work, including in the countryside, and that is good, but we can also see that people with the right qualifications are missing. This is particularly true in some of the municipalities where the level of education is low, because there are not very much educational establishments there, and this is so in some of the municipalities where unfortunately there are many outside the labour market, and it is typically the municipalities that are located in rural areas. That is why it is true that, as it says, the statement says, we can welcome an increase in employment, because when more people in a rural community are in work, there is more money between people and in the municipality fund to make the welfare society work and to make a private business function. But I really think that the government lacks to praise itself by saying that it is, of course, because for a number of years an economic policy has been pursued that shifts people from passive support to employment and that it has a very positive effect, including in our rural areas, which have been particularly affected by low employment. So a responsible economic policy such as that pursued by the previous government, which, in our view at least, the Left Government also tried to implement the 2025 plan, is also a very good and sensible rural policy. That is also why it is unreasonable for a majority outside the Radical Left and the government to choose to make it more difficult to obtain qualified foreign labour for the country. It is also a bad thing for rural areas which already find it difficult to obtain skilled labour; everything from industrial technicians to engineers, high school teachers and primary school teachers is harder to find in rural areas than it is in large university towns, and then it is a really bad idea to make it harder for an industrial technician, for example. Poland or somewhere else to come to a rural district in Denmark to work. The government spends a great deal of time praising itself in the statement that is fair enough and Radical Left has also taken part in many of the actions that are, last night with the agreement on a new teleconciliation. On the other hand, in the Radical Left, we do not understand that so much is being cut in cultural life and in education. The savings in education alone amount to 5,700 fewer teaching jobs outside the capital; that is far more than the government has moved out. Fewer education also means that fewer people stay outside university towns. From the statistics in the report, we can see where there is a shortage of people with higher education and where there is a shortage of people with vocational training. It is in the same municipalities that also do badly in a lot of other areas. That's why it's a really bad idea to make these green harvesting/great farming savings of 2%. each year in both upper secondary and higher education. For what is happening is what we have also seen in the hospital area, namely that we are trying to put educational institutions together to save the money we have now chosen to save for the next four years. This will affect the small institutions, which will mean merging, dismantling and centralising large-scale training, thereby making it possible to obtain qualified labour in some rural municipalities even more. Radical Left has presented a plan called Denmark without borders - Options across the country• in which we relocate study places and invest in education throughout the country. We call on the Danish Parliament to stop the huge savings on education, which affect especially outside the major cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518110328	Thank you. There are no comments. Then we move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthiesen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518110338	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Industry and Growth for the statement. As rapporteur for a coherent Denmark with the Alternative, I have looked forward to today's statement, as we also had a good debate last year. Let me begin by commending the government for taking a number of initiatives for the benefit of Danish rural areas. That's good work. However, we would still like to see a more ambitious and holistic policy. The municipal reform hit Denmark hard, as Mr. Henning Hyllested also mentioned earlier. It pushed a wave of centralisations into action and it came to benefit the big cities while the smaller cities saw their schools and institutions closed, people moved away and jobs disappeared. It is crucial that we continue to talk about it here, because the consequences of municipal reform and centralisation have also been a loss of democracy, loss of involvement, increased politicians and distortion of Denmark because of an excessive focus on Copenhagen and the major cities. So I fully agree with my fellow Members that we need to have a greater focus on more decentralization, on more education that is being moved into rural areas and islands, yes, we need to drop the savings on education altogether. We must increase and fully implement transport equality, and indeed I also share the concerns of the Social Democrats about top tax relief and the reduction of inheritance tax, and what it will do, not only for the distortion of Denmark, but for the equality of our country. Then I would like to unfold the story of the Danish rural areas. In Denmark, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, we are dependent on each other across the country and the city. First of all, I think it is important that we continue to focus on the many opportunities and potentials of rural areas, and here I agree with Mrs Hjermind Dencker. The alternative is that we focus on nature experiences, on organic food production, on culture, on strong binding communities, on opportunities for Danish family life, opportunities for green conversion and opportunities for entrepreneurship. For the alternative, rural areas, islands and villages offer a unique opportunity to learn how we think completely new in living, living and working. That is why I would also like to pay tribute to the Committee on viable villages, because it has been very positive to follow. We are very enthusiastic about the 17 good and progressive recommendations, and this applies from the first recommendation, which focuses with a helicopter perspective on the commitment of the municipalities to undertake strategic planning for their villages and rural areas, to the bourgeois recommendation no. 16 that there should be closer dialogue and cooperation between local authorities and local communities. In the alternative, we attach great importance to local solutions and communities, because we know that citizens are involved when they are part of a community. Today we see many good initiatives where civil society, local councils, cultural life, fire souls and organisations organise themselves with the municipality and address the local challenges. We would like to support that. The statement also says that it does not make sense to talk about one challenge picture for rural areas, and we very much agree with that in the alternative, and we see it as a question of freeing the villages. This means that we see a more ambitious policy as a matter of exploring new opportunities, where we believe that together we create an experimental zone in all municipalities, where we can obtain a derogation from the rules in force and challenge habitual thinking. This will mean that the municipality could experiment with interventions that make sense to the municipality to a much greater extent than is possible today. In the report we can also read that the demographic profile of an area has an impact on the area's potential for growth and development. It is among other things. decisive for the supply of labour, affecting the demand for public services and thereby the national and municipal economy. Growth is one of the first things mentioned in the report, and it is true that Danish rural areas have many strong potentials, and rural development and the areas outside the major cities also show positive trends. The DF's rapporteur has also emphasised this. In the alternative, we also want growth, but it must be growth that takes account of the link between the economy, social relations, nature and the environment. In the alternative, we believe that we need to have a better look at business opportunities in green businesses, and we believe that Danish rural areas have a very important role to play in the green economy. As such, we are not interested in downgrading agriculture, but we certainly see that future growth and job creation in agriculture are taking place in the context of ecological change. As you can read in the statement, there is an increasing global demand for more and better food. We are absolutely convinced that conversion to ecology will support and strengthen development. I would like to return to binding communities. In Denmark we have not had the same civil rights movement as in the United States, but I actually think it is high time that the friendly revolution, civil disobedience and resistance to the status quo were united across country and city and across cultures and skin colors to create a equal Denmark with equal opportunities and meaningful lives for everyone, no matter where in the country you live. In cities, we live in communities of interest. We surround ourselves with those who are similar to ourselves, have the same level of education, have the same interests, the same values, the same social status, but it also means that we live more and more divided and separated. In the villages, it's the other way around. Here it is necessary for citizens to live together in different communities, also in many places because there are simply fewer choices. In the small rural communities, therefore, the children of the academics go to school with the children of the unskilled, and they also go together to sports and form communities in the assembly houses. It's the strength of the villages. The freedom of being close to nature and solidarity in the binding communities together represents a unique value that cities cannot offer. Just as in the alternative we have started the conversation about the next Denmark with 38 proposals filled with radicality, democratic and social renewal, these visions are also at the heart of freedom and community. But for some, it may be difficult to stand out from the community in the village or in the cities without being isolated. Thus I was in Vollsmose the other day and heard a pear Danish white man tell how he feels more welcome and included in Vollsmose's intercultural environments than in the Jutland village in which he grew up, in which he experienced was much more hampered by social control and low to the ceiling than what exactly areas like Vollsmose are being made into in the debate. Prejudice and assumptions fill too much in our country, although we are very good at thinking that our moral compass is world-class. The conversation about a new we will thus be difficult to maintain, and I experience a exhaustion of many immigrants and Danes with minority backgrounds, because indirectly there is a lot of talk about color in Denmark, whether it is the concepts of parallel societies, so-called ghettos, gangs, non-western second, third, fourth generation Muslims, new dancers, the list is long. The idea is that if only those with a different ethnic background from Danish would fit in, then everything would be good. Through the media, politicians and opinion-formers it is perpetuating daily in the minds of the white Danes, while only the words white and privileges find it very difficult to be tolerated by the very same people, and it is time for us to change it together. Because we have something far stronger than the narrow village mentality, where diversity is made a problem and strangers create fear. We have Grundtvig and public education. We have the country's high school movement, where solidarity and citizenship in binding communities and in collective identity were and are pillars, and precisely these qualities in the cohesion of the villages we can use in the rest of the country to embrace diversity and develop together. For example: Highlander Folk School in Tennessee was the site of the civil rights movement in the United States, and the school, which still works in social justice, has trained and trained civil rights defenders such as Rosa Parks and Martin Luther King Jr., but what most people do not know is that one of the founders of this folk high school was in Denmark the years before, and in addition to learning to ride he learned Grundtvigian values and took them home and founded and started with the thought set the activism which later gave us Martin Luther King Jr. and Just as it is a fact that more women on the boards provide companies with better bottom lines, so diversity gives stronger research results, smarter working environments and yes, and also more money on the bottom line. But of course it requires employees or, in our case, the Danish society, the citizens, brown as white, to recognise the potential of diversity and to accept that diversity is a strength. Activist and author Audre Lorde said: It is not our differences that divide us. It is our inability to recognise, accept and celebrate these differences. That is why right now we need to say yes to diversity and define a new we that embraces all of us in the countryside, on the islands and in the city; a new we that redeems the potential of villages to meet each other in active citizenship, community life and new communities; as well as the demands of the American civil rights movement for equality and freedom to meaningful lives for minorities in Denmark. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111341	We go a long way in such a political debate on rural areas, that is to say. Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111351	Thank you, and thank you for a very rich and very exciting rapporteur's speech, and of course also for the rapporteur's commitment to the development of our rural areas. In the rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur mentioned top tax concessions early on. This is not the first time that the word 'top tax relief' has been spoken in today's debate. I wonder what kind of top tax relief they think goes in and steals all the focus from rural areas and also from the economy, because the last government to grant top tax relief was Thorning's government. In order to use the rapporteur's own words, will the rapporteur recognise and accept that the fact that this government is constantly being put in the shoes of top tax relief is to stigmatise a government, that is to expose it? So all the fine words used by the rapporteur in his rapporteur's speech can of course be directed at himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111451	Thank you for the question. Should I understand that the rapporteur of the Left believes that they are victims now in some economic conspiracy when we say that we do not want top tax relief or that the inheritance tax should not be reduced? I really don't understand the question. Is that it? The rapporteur uses the speech about the repression of minorities to tell us that when we talk about top tax concessions, it is because we stigmatise and marginalise the population, those who have the most. Is this how I should understand the rapporteur's question? Otherwise, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111533	Now we are dealing with the short remarks, but I think we should try to stick to what the statement is about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111540	Well, I'm just trying to correct a misunderstanding, because I could understand from the rapporteur's speech that there were many things that could not be done because money has been spent on top tax concessions. My argument is that the last government to grant top tax relief was the Thorning Government, the last government to grant top tax relief, was the Thorning Government. And that is why it cannot be a valid argument that all the things that the rapporteur is arguing for cannot be done are due to some top tax concessions. We are trying to shoot a government and a minister in the shoes that the Minister and the government have not had the opportunity to influence in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111616	I didn't shoot anybody in the shoes. I said explicitly: I share the concern of the Social Democrats about what top tax relief and reduction of inheritance tax will do. That's what I said in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111629	Thank you. There are no further comments. Then we have reached a new rapporteur, sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518111639	It is rather quirky that we should be discussing a regional policy statement today, at the same time as the government has set up a Capital Commission. What I think may be particularly quirky is that we have a Minister of Industry who chooses to participate in the trench war by calling the situation that exists as capital bashing. I do not really understand why the Minister of Industry needs to take part in that war. I do not really see things going so badly in the capital either. However, the aim is certainly that we should have a Denmark that is linked, and we have taken joint initiatives along these lines. I think it was an undivided pleasure here a few days ago to take part in a committee meeting where we had representatives from several of our islands who so much confirmed the importance of reducing the rates on the voyage to the islands. They explained with one example after another how this contributed specifically and with precision to business development, to increased tourism and to people staying on the islands and even in some places moved to. There we have so much together in the Folketing a hand that was clearly necessary for many of our islands. But the goal is also that prosperity and growth must be for the whole of Denmark and for all Danes. It is not, of course, because we can or must prevent the movement against the larger cities, but we can do our part to make it more attractive to continue living on the islands and in rural areas. There is certainly an underlying trend, both globally and to a large extent also in Denmark, to draw towards the big cities, and our task must be not to push that trend by contributing to increased centralisation, but to make it attractive to stay outside the big cities. In order to live there and live a modern life, a number of conditions must be met: a good, secure, developed welfare society with good institutions, schools, elderly homes and cultural opportunities. Honestly, who wants to live in places where you don't have such facilities and maybe even the purchase has, at least in the past, an unstable network connection and only mobile coverage in selected places? That is why it is also a great gain for the whole of Denmark, but especially for rural areas and islands, that we now have a new teleconciliation. It is these basic conditions that must be present together with good, cheap, efficient public transport that should make people want to stay outside the cities. In this context, it is a particular pleasure that we in the Danish Parliament have two conciliation circles which will give priority to public transport. It is the Togfonden DK that will ensure not only fast operation between the largest cities, but a much better regional operation with an upgrade of 11 regional railway lines. In addition, we also have the conciliation circle behind better and cheaper transport. Unfortunately, we have to note that the government is all too often more concerned with trying to put a stick in the wheel of conciliation and thus the majority in the work of the Folketing. SF proposes a number of initiatives that will help islands and rural areas in a targeted way. We propose the creation of 25 local welfare centres, and we do so on the basis that town halls, post offices, police stations, courthouses and libraries are closed in many cities. Service functions that we depend on in everyday life have moved to the big cities and have drained several smaller cities for life, and this contributes to depopulation. Our idea of welfare centres is that it should provide a shorter journey time for public services, such as: passport issue and service in relation to job centres, social counselling, mail, medical delivery and police. The welfare centres can also allow citizens in the local area to establish themselves with other functions such as: communal rooms, cafes, large screen for film and sports events and various cultural gatherings. The welfare centres therefore not only bring the immediate and local welfare back to small communities. They also pull back everyday life and proximity and give people who are now commuting to the big cities better opportunities for easier work and that way, yes, stay at home. SF proposes the establishment of a mortgage credit institution aimed precisely at providing cheaper loans to owner-occupied housing and commercial properties in the outlying areas. SF has put forward five concrete proposals for better medical coverage and better health provision in rural areas. We are also saying that to some extent it is a good idea to move some of the state jobs out, but in the SF's view this should happen in cases where it makes sense on several parameters at the same time. Because, at the same time as the relocation of state jobs, the educational institutions are being cut back, which means that, in order to survive, more of them are closing down offers and educational courses, yes, whole schools. They centralize, and they do it mostly in the big cities. In this context, the SF believes that it is necessary to increase the training grant for youth education in the outskirts and also to introduce it for higher education. SF also proposes that 150 youth housing be built in three rural towns with educational institutions, and SF proposes that adult and continuing education be given much higher priority. We can only note that it is AMU and VUC that are largely the educational services that exist just outside the major cities. AMU is probably the rural education system. Unfortunately, however, we have to look at the fact that the AMU activities have halved since 2010. Hopefully, the tripartite negotiations will correct the great backlog in adult, continuing and continuing training, but we will not avoid massive investment in the task of moving unskilled people to skilled and skilled workers to technicians. SF also believes that there should be massive investment in wind turbines both at sea and on land. These are initiatives that can help create thousands of jobs in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518112312	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. It's the business minister's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518112318	Thank you for those, I think, very constructive comments. They bear witness to a very committed rapporteur who wants the best for rural areas. Across the bias, across geography there is a common interest in lifting rural areas. This is, of course, a position which the government is at the forefront of with the wealth of initiatives that we have presented in the report. I would like to take the invitation from Mr. Villum Christensen buys some stamps and arrange to send the statement to all 98 municipalities. It's a good idea, just so you can get inspiration and hear why it's really going so well • why housing prices have risen in everyone.The rural statement is proof of that with the documentation of the many initiatives. So we buy 98 stamps and send it to 98 municipalities. As far as rural areas are concerned, we see that, in general, areas outside large cities have shown a number of positive trends and potentials. I mentioned before the increase in employment and solid growth in the housing market, but it is true, as several of the rapporteurs have also said, that there is still a difference in the pace of development. For the positive development of rural areas, in many places, not as fast as in some of the major cities. There are still areas where growth needs to be helped a little on the way. That is why the government's policy on rural areas also focuses in particular on removing the barriers that currently hinder the progress and development of the largest cities and on promoting the conditions for agricultural, industrial, coastal and natural tourism, which we find particularly in rural areas. Three years ago, the government entered into an agreement on growth and development throughout Denmark, and the project is a cornerstone of the government's work in this area. To date, we have implemented 110 of the more than 120 initiatives of the agreement, each in its own way contributing to growth throughout Denmark. I can say with certainty that this is the largest agreement in recent times, focusing on strengthening the conditions for growth outside the largest cities. The vision has been to remove growth barriers, create a better framework for spatial planning and create new opportunities for companies and citizens and municipalities throughout Denmark. The stakes are working because Denmark is doing well, and the Danish economy is doing very well. In 2017, we had GDP growth of over 2%. It's the highest since 2006. In rural areas, there have also been good growth rates in GDP per head. citizen. The last two years of regional and rural policy statements have just shown a number of positive trends in several areas, and this year's report shows that positive trends have become firm. In terms of employment, population and housing, we are in a positive development. Just a few years ago, employment fell. Now, however, the latest employment figures show that we are only 1 mm away from setting the record for most employees ever. Growth is spread over the vast majority of municipalities, although a handful of municipalities are still experiencing a small fall in employment, including part of the islands, which we have also had a lot of talk about this morning. We can see that tourism is growing throughout Denmark and we see a steady increase in the number of nights spent in holiday homes and holiday centres and in campsites. Population is also increasing in most municipalities, especially on Zealand and Funen. However, parts of northern and western Jutland, Southern Denmark and the islands continue to be marked by a declining population. But the fall is smaller than before. The statement also shows that it is more on Zealand that there are more people outside the cities now than three years ago. In the rest of rural areas, there are fewer and fewer people in towns with less than 1,000 inhabitants and in the open country. If we look at the housing market in isolation, the figures also confirm that things are going well across the country. All the municipalities in the country have experienced several residential trades over the last 3 years • most even more than 15%. More. However, there are also still challenges, including: We also see a large number of empty homes around Denmark. As I said earlier, we have almost finished the initiatives from the agreement on growth and development throughout Denmark, but that does not mean that our work has been completed and that we can rest on the laurels. We need to work together to create growth throughout Denmark, and that is where I will address the call, also from DF's very talented rural rapporteur, that it is together that we have to solve these things. We want and will work hard to ensure that positive rural development continues and to help growth in the areas that are still challenged. In June, therefore, we modernised the law of plans so that it supports both growth and development, but also takes care of both the environment and nature. There have been too many examples of the planning laws being in the way of the good idea and the local initiative, and when talented companies and resourceful citizens and associations create new opportunities for development, surely it should not be the law of the plan that limits the initiatives. In the past, for example, you had to. only use holiday homes for short holiday stays during the winter period, and if you ask me, this in principle meant a severe restriction on families' own freedom to choose to live in their own house, and in practice this meant that summer homes could only be used for up to 3-4 weeks during the winter period, and then they had to stand empty for 1 week. It was a totally unnecessary burden to impose on the tourist industry and a burden that has now been abolished. At the same time, with the modernisation of the Planning Act, it has become possible for pensioners to live throughout the year in their summer houses after only having owned it for 1 year. Previously, this was only possible after 8 years of ownership. In July, I also set up the Committee on viable villages. About 1 in 5 Danes live in towns with less than 1,000 inhabitants, but while the population has generally increased, fewer and fewer people live in the villages today. I therefore asked the committee to refocus on the future of the villages and on the opportunities to operate and to work and to live in the villages. Last month they were able to unveil their work in the Village Committee. 17 recommendations have been formulated for the work to strengthen viable villages, including: The committee has pointed out that we can raise the quality of the villages by focusing on specific local potentials, for example. nature, e.g. row, e.g. the local community or the local grocery stores or sports facilities. The Committee has also considered that there are some areas with such great challenges that there is also a need to think the area over again. Therefore, we will now discuss the committee's recommendations, and we will do so together with the conciliation parties behind Denmark in better balance sheet. A third area on which the government focuses to strengthen rural areas is tourism. Along the west coast of Jutland, on Bornholm, in the South Funen Archipelago, along the Zealand coasts, yes, throughout Denmark, the tourism sector has created a lot of jobs in recent years. Of these, we find barely half of them in coastal and natural tourism, that is. vacation tourism outside the four largest cities in Denmark. We add an annual turnover of 45 billion. It is clear that coastal and natural tourism is of particular importance to rural areas. The Government has therefore taken a number of initiatives in recent years to strengthen Danish tourism, among others. I have already mentioned the modernisation of the law on plans, which has provided new opportunities: for example: to develop new cottage areas, coastal proximity development areas and better development opportunities within the beach protection line. Furthermore, with the tourism and rural development package of the Business and Entrepreneurship Agreement, we have agreed to give priority to the marketing of coastal and natural tourism and have provided a framework for, among other things. tax relief for campsites. Finally, we have also just agreed, at the request of the Danish People's Party and after hard work by Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, to raise the base allowance for private rental of summer homes as much as DKK 40,000. So I understand the big smiles of Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, because it is a great victory for the Danish People's Party, and it is a great victory for tourism, and it is a very good deal we have made with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left to raise the base allowance for private rental of summer houses. In addition to giving Danish holiday home owners more money in their pockets, the government also wants to meet the increasing demand for overnight stays from tourists, for this creates, as we also heard from up here from DF's rapporteur, also the turnover of restaurants and merchants and amusement centers throughout Denmark. The four areas of government action are to provide rapid and stable mobile and internet coverage. It is essential for everyday life to be linked, but also for the establishment of new businesses. There are still areas in Denmark, especially outside the large cities, which only have access to low-speed basic broadband connections, and I regret to say that this is still an obstacle to local growth. That is why it is also very positive, as Mr. Henning Hyllested mentioned that the government, together with all the parties of the Folketing, entered into a telecommunications agreement yesterday which strengthens coverage throughout Denmark. For example: the broadband pool shall be increased by an additional 60 million; kr. here in 2018, and it targets sparsely populated areas to an even greater extent. In addition, it has been agreed to set balanced and ambitious coverage requirements for mobile coverage for future frequency auctions. And then the municipalities get a clear framework for how they can support the roll-out of mobile networks and broadband. Finally, of course, there is much work to be done in moving state jobs closer to the citizens and companies that use state services. The state serves the whole country, and therefore the state jobs must of course be present throughout Denmark. Once the relocation has been completed, nearly 8 000 jobs will have gone wider in the country. In my own area of ministry, for example, there are: talk about jobs in Viborg, Ikast, Løgstør, Korsør and Silkeborg and at Falster. In addition to moving jobs, the government also establishes ten new training stations outside Copenhagen distributed throughout the country, and there I am not as sceptical as Mr. Henning Hyllested was. Because we are moving some training stations into areas where there is no general possibility of taking an education when you get away from the youth education system. And those training stations are also connected to the major educational towns. This means that some satellites can be set up with qualified trainers and allow local young people to take training closer to where they live. I believe that this will be very important both for settlement and for business and for the whole of an area's attraction. Training is an essential element in maintaining young people in the local area. These are mainly vocational training courses, e.g.: professional academies that will thus support the recruitment basis for private companies in the areas concerned. However, when we set up training places from outside Copenhagen, it is just as much a matter of making it easier to attract qualified workers. Those were the main impact points for me today. I think that, with the enormous effort I think there have been from all the rapporteurs, from all the parties when we speak rural areas, we can all be pleased that the arrows are pointing in the right direction, namely in a large number of areas in rural areas. At any rate, the report of the year states that the overall population growth in Denmark is increasing, that employment is increasing not only around the large cities, but in virtually the whole country, and that the patterns of relocation and house sales show that there are citizens who want to live in all parts of Denmark. It is true, as Hans Christian Andersen wrote in his day: It is so lovely in the countryside. And so it still is, but for the government too, rural areas remain a political priority. They are, although we are doing a great deal of work today, as the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Karsten Hønge, mentioned, in relation to the metropolitan area. For the government will continue to work to strengthen the growth and development of rural areas. It is for the benefit of the whole country, and it is also for the benefit of the whole country that we have a growth locomotive in the capital, which can help boost development. For us, it's a boat and not a either or. For this government, it's about us, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, getting a boost in the development of Denmark as a whole. I think we have set a lot of things in motion together, and therefore I am also looking forward to being here again next year with a new statement in which, hopefully, we will once again see very clearly positive developments in rural areas in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518113705	Some were praised. I think they'd like to thank you for that. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518113711	Thank you. I should also like to congratulate the Minister once again on the Minister's good speech and on the Minister's commitment to rural areas, which I clearly note. I would just like to make a small request to the Minister: it is the case that, for the first time ever in the history of the Danish Parliament, we actually had a hearing outside Christiansborg. And I know that from October it is actually possible that Parliament's committees can begin to have deputies, i.e. the appearance, which takes place outside Christiansborg. I think that the people deserve that we politicians from Christiansborg go first and go on many more domestic trips, where we like to hear the people, instead of getting into Christiansborg. So I just want to know if the Minister would be kind enough to call on me to promise the Minister that we will do so in the Rural Committee, the Industry Committee, on the inland journeys, just to open up some delegations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518113819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518113821	I think it is a very good idea to get out as far as possible in Denmark. I myself am several times a week in Denmark to visit institutions, companies and educations, and therefore it is a very good idea that you can also receive deputies when you are out with the committee. And I can only call on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to do what is being done in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518113850	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518113901	I would like to ask you something that has not been part of today's debate and that is a very small part of the rural policy statement. This is the whole question of financing housing and occupation. I know that we, among other things. in the Rural and Islands Committee at one time took the initiative to change the amount of available resources and the time for lying and such things and also to do so along the way. And that has clearly had a positive effect. Recently, we had a meeting under the auspices of the US with people from the financial sector and others. And it was clear that there are different experiences of whether initiatives are still needed. And that is what I would like to ask the Minister, namely whether the Minister believes that some initiatives are still needed around the world to ensure the settlement and occupation, that is to say the financing of homes and occupations. This is because the housing sales, as the statement also says, have been increasing in all municipalities. We are all in favour of this, but it is different within each municipality, and parts of rural areas still find it difficult to get funding for business and housing. I would therefore like to ask whether there may be a need for further initiatives here. It can be said that positive progress is also the result of economic development in general. Of course, rural areas also benefit from this, but you could ask 'It is perhaps quite untimely to say what happens when we come to the next crisis, because then we should be armed. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister might consider that further initiatives are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518114050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518114053	Well, it doesn't take you to be Einstein to see that there are of course still some challenges. Although the figures are positive, there are, of course, still greater challenges in getting funding for properties and occupations in some parts of Denmark than elsewhere. It may be due to the market situation, it may be due to some other externalities, and that is why the Committee on viable villages has also had to look at what could be done about it. And the Village Committee has come up with a number of different proposals to make local environments more attractive with modern housing, better access to different services, a real demolition pool and such things. In any case, this is what has also been looked at in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to help open up the floodgates a little more, so that it will be more attractive also for those who have to finance it to invest in some of those areas. And there we are looking at some of the proposals made by the Committee on the Villages a few months ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518114206	With that, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180518114221	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 22 May 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I would also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
