ParlaMint-DK_20180220100003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220100007	I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220100018	From Her Majesty the Queen I have received the following rescript: "We hereby inform you that we will have you assigned in our name to bring to Parliament the message that our beloved, dear spouse, His Royal Highness Prince Henrik, has quietly slept in on 13 February 2018 at 12:00. 23.18. We bring this message in full assurance of the participation of the Folketing in the heavy grief of our and our relatives. Given at Amalienborg, 15 February 2018. This is the Queen's word, which I have hereby delivered to the Danish Parliament. We all participate in the great grief of the Queen and the royal family at Prince Henrik's death. Queen Margrethe has lost her insightful and warm companion for more than half a century, Denmark has lost a distinguished and unique representative of our country, and we have all lost a human being who was not afraid to risk himself. Prince Henrik was his own. That's how I'll remember him, and that's how I think all Danes will remember him.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220100156	Thank you, Prime Minister. It was with great sorrow that I received the news that His Royal Highness Prince Henrik slept quietly at Fredensborg Palace on 13 February. A true worldman has passed away, and we all mourn the loss of the loving, generous and spiritful human being he was and of whom one has to look for a long time. Prince Henrik was born in 1934 in France but spent his early years in French Indochina, where his father operated industrial activities. In 1952-1957 he studied law and political science at the Sorbonne in Paris as well as Chinese and Vietnamese. Later he studied Oriental languages in Hong Kong and Saigon. After serving in Algeria in 1959-1962, Prince Henrik pursued a career in the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He saw himself in particular as a bridge builder for Asia and the Asian cultures of which he was very fascinated. He succeeded in joining the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of France in 1962 in the Ministry of Asia. In 1963 he became Secretary of the French Embassy in London. His talent as a diplomat glowed up, and after just 3 years in London he stood with the prospect of becoming France's youngest ambassador ever. But something had happened in the meantime. He had met and fell in love with Denmark's successor to the throne, Princess Margrethe. And as the classical romantic he was, there was no doubt in his mind: He had to follow his heart. Many remember the pictures from the first time he stepped out of a plane at Kastrup Airport and walked down the stairs. It was like watching a beautiful prince step out of a book of fairy tales. The wedding in Holmen's Church in the summer of 1967 was not only the beginning of a lifelong marriage with the Danish successor and later regent, Queen Margrethe. It was also the beginning of over 50 years of committed work and work for Denmark, both as a faithful support and companion for his wife, but also independently in many contexts. Even after he officially retired at the age of 81, he continued to work for Denmark anyway. He embraced widely, and his desire to learn new things and develop his many talents continued to the end. His curiosity to experience the world, his passion for art and his philosophical approach to life made him a treasured companion, friend and conversational partner. In Denmark, the prince trained as a pilot in the Air Force. He took private lessons at the Academy of Fine Arts and went into training as a sailor. The Danish language became the sixth in the line, which he could speak, next to French, Spanish, Chinese, Vietnamese and English. In 1969 he began working for the Danish Red Cross. He was given the responsibility to coordinate the Danish aid work with the international headquarters in Geneva, and with this he was given the opportunity to use his international and diplomatic experience. It wasn't an honorary post, it was a job. Humanitarian work was not the only thing Prince Henrik added to an international dimension. As the great animal friend he was, he actively engaged in animal and nature conservation and became president of the WWF World Nature Fund in Denmark. In the same way it was with his interest in the world cultural heritage. For many years he put a great deal of work into the international organisation Europa Nostra, for which he was the international president for 17 years. The Danish export industries also became an area where Prince Henrik could see that he could make use of Denmark and open doors. He has participated in numerous Danish trade delegations. When he accompanied Queen Margrethe on state visits abroad and the majesty was the main character of the official programme, he was the head of the business programme. Here, too, his cultural understanding and experience from diplomacy came to his right. Especially in China and Japan and other Asian countries there was great respect for his name and participation. Finally, gastronomy was one of his many great passions, and for him art and gastronomy were two sides of the same coin. Prince Henrik managed to publish several cookbooks, which appeared in both Danish and French. As more and more Danes got a taste for wine and an interest in wine production, many enjoyed keeping up with his parallel life as wine farmers at the Royal Couple's wine castle in Cayx. Here he quickly put a professional wine production into a system. Prince Henrik took Denmark and the Danes to him. His great heart was also beating for us and all the things that we in Denmark are good at. His good mood, his joy in life and his ability to be present reached a great many. That is why we are so grateful that he chose us, and that is why we are so concerned that he is no longer with us. His greatest and foremost calling in Denmark, however, has been faithful support for his wife and queen. One should not go far into the sides of his poetry collections until one is fully satisfied with his unreserved and expressive love for his wife and friend in life. And if it is even one of the poetry collections that the Queen has illustrated, then one has the finest proof of what support and enrichment the two marriage mates have been to each other in art and love. Queen Margrethe has on several occasions publicly thanked the prince for his great support and inspiration. The admirable and committed approach that the Queen has to her life's task, she has always given the prince a great share in. All Danes have seen and felt this. Therefore, the compassion of the people these days is so profound, and therefore the empty space next to the queen is so sad to observe. The world has lost one of its great personalities. It is a painful loss and a great sorrow for the family and his many friends. It is a painful loss and a great sorrow for all of us. On behalf of the entire Danish Parliament, I send my deepest sympathy and condolences to Her Majesty the Queen and the entire royal family. Glory to Prince Henrik's memory! May I have one minute's silence, please?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130056	The sitting is resumed. Today there is the following review: Pernille Skipper (EL) and Roger Courage Matthisen (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 74 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of an equal pay pool). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. The Committee on Taxation has issued a report on the issue of tax cards for illegal immigrants. 1. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130127	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 38 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-Britt Kattrup (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour 56 (Henrik Dam Kristensen (S), DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 38 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 39 by Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Marlene Borst Hansen (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and proposal no. V 40 of Stine Brix (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130224	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130240	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130311	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130327	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 56 (Henrik Dam Kristensen (S), DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130421	I would point out that after the agenda has been published, Amendment No 3 has been tabled for the third reading. 1 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The amendment can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course. The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130435	If there is no request for a vote, I consider Amendment No. 1 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130444	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130452	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130518	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130531	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130600	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130613	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130636	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130655	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 5 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130720	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130737	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130804	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130828	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130842	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we will have to start first readings, and that is why I ask that those who do not wish to take part in the debate leave the Chamber and speak outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130901	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220130937	Thank you, President. The legislative proposal here is about implementing the so-called NIS directive, which is an EU directive, which provides for the highest possible level of safety in relation to our network and information systems, and here it is about transport, which is the whole area of road, rail, air and port, in which we must ensure that we have the highest possible level of safety when it comes to the information systems we work with there. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is very positive. There is no doubt that we must have maximum security in this area. We know that we are living at a time when precisely information systems can be fragile and subjected to various attacks and other things, and at least the slightest problem can have very, very violent consequences, so we just need to get this area under control. That is where we think that the draft law on transport is sensible and that it is moving in the right direction. We must then note, when we read the many answers to the hearings, that there are a number of critical questions, a number of critical remarks, and this is very much also about the way in which the personal data issue is handled, among other things. IT-Politics Association is critical here and it is also about how much the administrative burdens are. When you read the bill, it looks as if it is rather modest with the administrative burdens and the costs that should be associated with it, but there are therefore several of the consultation answers that are somewhat critical. So we in the Social Democratic Party will pursue some of the questions in the consultation answers in the committee process and become wiser in that area, but the idea is that this is something so important that we must, of course, have implemented this, and that is why we are going to support this proposal in the end. However, we need to go through a thorough comitology process in this area in order to be absolutely sure that we get into all the corners that are affected in the consultation responses.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220131138	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220131148	Just like Mr. Rasmus Prehn, of course, cannot disagree at all with the fact that we must have the greatest possible security in these areas and also in our area, namely the transport sector, which we are dealing with here. This is aircraft safety, and the proposal also mentions the signal system. We could comment on the fact that we are at least in time for this, because it has been a little late. But that being said, this is about increasing security and implementing this NIS directive. But I would also like to point out that what I think is missing is a practicalisation of what kind of organisation it is that needs to be built. What's it gonna cost? I have certainly not been able to read that out. And what is the burden on the companies involved, Naviair, DSB etc. etc.? I think it is important that we get this brushed out in committee so that we have a complete overview of the economic, but also other consequences that this proposal has for those involved.That being said, we in the Danish People's Party are of course also concerned that we have maximum security in those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220131307	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220131320	Thank you. After all, the aim of the draft law here is to ensure that we in Denmark comply with the EU's NIS directive in the field of transport. The NIS is responsible for network and information systems. This is, of course, very relevant because, as two rapporteurs have already mentioned, we are living in a world where there is a threat to our cybersecurity. We have a very large Danish company, A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S, who can talk about what it means when you are subjected to attacks and what it can cost. So there is no doubt that it is highly relevant that we, too, in transport companies, are very aware of the risks that exist and that we also have a structured approach to how we deal with them. For example, if there are any incidents in the field of IT security, this bill will require the relevant carriers to inform the Cybersecurity Centre. So this is a bill that the Left strongly supports. It should not be the case that Denmark is the weak link in the chain in terms of IT security at European and global level. So this is a highly relevant and very good bill. I would also like to point out that I believe that in the various areas of our society we will have to pay more attention to security, including in our communication. So there are nations that spend a great deal of resources building up an offensive capacity, among other things. Russia, and we need to guard against this, including in the field of transport. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220131502	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220131513	Thank you. Former rapporteurs have already explained the substance of the draft law here, which is, of course, the implementation of the so-called NIS Directive, which also applies to a number of social sectors, including the transport sector, with the appointment of so-called operators of essential transport services. And, of course, in these IT times, when essential social devices are based on IT systems and on data collection, it is necessary for operators to meet the requirement that systems are safe, so that not essential social functions are brought to a standstill, and this has a great deal to do with an area such as the transport sector. It is also necessary that procedures are in place for the reporting and handling of so-called events as it is appointed to be. So far, so good. It is not clear from the draft law, but it is clear from the general debate that the government has chosen to make the Cybersecurity Centre, which is the responsibility of the Defence Intelligence Service, the so-called National Contact Point. In reality, this means that national IT security tasks, which in the transport sector are now under civil control, will in future be anchored in the Defence Intelligence Service. We do not like this in the Enhedslisten, because the Defence Intelligence Service is exempted from various parts of the public administration... the Public Service Act, the Personal Data Act... with regard to access to documents, etc. etc. And we must say that the current rules on data protection, and from 25 May 2018, also the EU Data Protection Regulation, do not apply to the Defence Intelligence Service. We do not think that is very clever, and I am quite sure that the European Union probably did not quite come. Now, of course, we do not know who is being designated in the transport sector to be the so-called operators of essential transport services, but there may be organisations that collect very sensitive information. I am thinking of the fact that if the travel map A/S is designated or the entire flex traffic area, i.e. the traffic companies' flex traffic, which has huge fleet management programmes, there will be quite a lot of data on travel patterns, but also on personal information relating to flex traffic, for example. on disability, etc. And we are not so keen on that information being gathered and lying in a place where they cannot be strictly controlled. So that is at least something we want to pursue during the committee work, that is, how we ensure that we actually live up to the ordinary data protection, even if it is the Defence Intelligence Service • how do we ensure transparency? Then the Socialist rapporteur also referred to the issue of the administrative costs of this, and it is true that you can read in the draft law that it is virtually nothing. I simply do not believe that. And that is also what the regions are calling for, and that is why they have asked for a DUT assessment of it. I think that will be absolutely necessary. I also think that the Ministry of Transport has had a bad habit of cutting off the possibility of access to justice, and this is also the case here, in relation to who is appointed as operators of essential transport services. There is such a pattern, as we know from the EIA reports in the transport sector, which cut off the possibility of ordinary redress. We don't like that much either. In principle, we find it problematic that civil society structures in Denmark should be managed by the Defence Intelligence Service with the limitations it provides in terms of insight, including access to documents and data protection requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220131946	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220131956	Denmark is one of the most digitised countries in the world, and it gives us a wide range of benefits, but it also makes us vulnerable, of course. Last year we saw how a cyberattack crippled one of the largest companies in the country, namely A.P. Møller - Mærsk's business, which lay still for several days. It is not only private companies that are in a vulnerable position. Our publicly owned infrastructure is also highly digitised, and therefore the risk of cyber attacks is also high here. It can be difficult to imagine the consequences if Copenhagen Airport or Banedanmark is paralysed, as A.P. Møller - Mærsk became the last year. That is why we must ensure that operators of our infrastructure meet precise standards when it comes to dealing with these risks. We believe that the draft law here contributes to this, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132054	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132113	Thank you for that, President. L 135, network and information systems. Basically, it is an EU directive that needs to be implemented. It is also important that it is implemented. I think that all my colleagues have sketched out why it is important, and also the history we have in Denmark, that the economy we have is estimated to be the fourth most vulnerable in the world to cyber attacks. So let me just go straight to our concerns. We are critical of the government's implementation. It is mainly about the location of CSIRT at the Cybersecurity Centre, which is located at the FE, i.e. the Defence Intelligence Service. As has been said before, the Defence Intelligence Service is generally exempt from data security legislation, which is specifically required in the directive. That's what we're wondering. Implementation therefore goes directly against the directive. That's what we're wondering. We must be aware of this. We need to ask some questions with S and the other parties. Therefore, it is not clear which way the alternative will go in relation to L 135, whether we can be for or against. We need to clarify this with transparency. I believe this is one of our greatest challenges in relation to our digitised society. It is important to focus on our data security. Another appeal is that the bill envisages the possibility for the Minister to share security incidents with the population whose particular circumstances are not present. Again in relation to increased openness: Ability to share • Why is it not the Minister's duty to inform the public whose particular circumstances are not present? So, to sum up, we are very positive about the intentions of the directive, but we do not believe that those intentions are recognised and respected in the government's legislative proposals, and we need to talk about that. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132337	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132347	The other day there was a 10-year-old boy who told me that this thing about having wars, where soldiers or tanks, or whatever it may be, is shooting at each other, probably not going to happen in the future, because there you get enough to attack each other by hacking into the IT systems and doing damage to each other. It may be a bit too optimistic to think that gunpowder and bullets are out of the picture, but I think that this 10-year-old boy is right in saying that IT attacks are going to happen more and more frequently. That is why it is also important that we protect ourselves against such things, and that is one of them. Therefore, this directive, which Denmark has helped to adopt in the European Union and which is now to be implemented, is important and needs to be introduced. And that is why, like all the other parties, we are also in favour of introducing this directive so that we can protect ourselves in the field of transport as well. However, we are also, like a large number of rapporteurs, critical of the implementation method chosen by the government, which places the task under the Defence Intelligence Service, which is exempted from the Data Protection Act, and therefore we are insecure and doubtful as to whether citizens' data protection is being adequately enforced in relation to this. And that is what the Alternative's rapporteur also mentioned in the directive, that is to say that data protection with regard to citizens must still be respected. Like a large number of other parties, we will be asking about this in committee. My expectation is that we will end up voting in favour of the bill because we basically agree with the intentions. But it may also be that we think some amendments should be tabled in relation to how to do it in Denmark. That is why we are going to ask those questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132542	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132551	Cybersecurity is the great new risk area for future societies. This is the case with military policy, where the wars of the future will undoubtedly take place in a different way than in the past. But also in the civil field, cybersecurity has shown its importance, most recently in the attack on Mærsk. The EU initiative will strengthen data security, and we are very pleased with this in the SF. However, we are not quite so impressed by the government's plan, especially with regard to the Cybersecurity Centre, which is to be held by the Defence Intelligence Service, which is exempt from data security legislation. This is an issue on which we will go further before we can take up our final status. We are actually in favour of the draft law, but we have some things to clarify in relation to the way it is now being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132649	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132703	We agree with many of the comments made by the other rapporteurs and we support the draft law. I would have liked to make some comments, but I think the best thing that was said was from the radical rapporteur who said that it might be a little naive to think that gunpowder and bullets are out in the future. We agree with that. However, we also agree that cyber war by both state and private operators is something we can expect more from, and it can have major consequences if our infrastructure is put down. Then, of course, we are ready to listen also to the concerns that have been raised in the hearings, but we basically believe that this is a good legislative proposal. And it is probably also difficult to get around, since it is the implementation of an EU directive that we need to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132750	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220132800	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. Cyber attacks and crashes of IT systems pose a serious threat to society. The transport sector, like the rest of society, is characterised by an increasing degree of digitisation. More and more transport services include digital solutions and digital infrastructure, and in some cases the transport service itself is entirely dependent on the digital infrastructure to function. A cyberattack can cause mobility in Denmark to be significantly disrupted. In order to maintain good mobility both in Denmark and to and from Denmark, it is important that there is a high level of safety in network and information systems among operators of essential transport services. This bill aims precisely to prevent cyberattacks and other similar types of crashes, thus ensuring high mobility. The draft law implements the directive on measures to ensure a high common level of security for network and information systems across the Union, also known as the NIS Directive. The draft law implements those parts of the NCI Directive which fall within the remit of the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing. My colleagues, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Business and Industry, will also present their legislative proposals in the coming days and weeks, which implement the NIS directive in their areas. One of the key elements of the draft law is that operators of essential transport services must take measures to manage and manage any risks arising from cyber attacks or the like. Who, then, are these operators of essential transport services? Operators which will be covered by this bill are public and private entities operating in Denmark in the transport sector and which, according to specified criteria, are designated as operators of essential transport services. It is my expectation that only a few players will be appointed. Actors will be characterised by being extremely large operators, who all provide a unique service within their own area, depending on IT systems, and have a completely critical and national importance. For these actors, if an event occurs, for example, it will have a significant disruptive effect on the provision of their services and on mobility in Denmark. in the form of a cyberattack. The actors who are currently involved in this process. consideration and as I can imagine will be taken into consideration to be appointed as operators of a major transport service, are: Copenhagen Airport, DSB, Banedanmark and Naviair. However, I must point out that I am not in a position to give a clear opinion on who will be appointed under the law, since this can only be done after the adoption of the law, where operators will be appointed by an administrative decision by 9 November 2018 at the latest. The Ministry of Transport, Construction and Housing has the necessary technical and professional expertise in the field of transport, which makes it natural that the task of the Board is to assess which operators are to be appointed. Therefore, I will delegate this task as well as the other powers conferred on me by this law as Minister of Transport, Building and Housing, to the Danish Transport, Building and Housing Authority. As I have mentioned, the draft law will lay down rules on the measures that operators must take to manage and manage the risks associated with cyber attacks and the like. In this context, I would like to require operators to obtain certification according to an internationally recognised standard for the management of the safety of network and information systems. The advantage of requiring such certification is that safety is adapted to a high international level, while at the same time matching current developments and the specific circumstances of each operator. I can also inform you that I have been told that most of the players who will be eligible to be designated as the operator of a major transport service already follow internationally recognised standards of safety in IT systems, and therefore it will not be foreign for these operators to be certified according to an international standard. If the accident is out and an operator detects an incident that has a disruptive effect on a significant transport service, the operator shall, as a result of the bill, notify the Traffic, Building and Housing Board and the Cybersecurity Centre of the incident. The notification requirements of the draft law are central to giving the authorities a clear picture of the threats, in order that the authorities may respond to the incident and in order to prevent and limit incidents in the future. In addition, in cooperation with the Cybersecurity Centre, the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority will assess the notifications with a view to informing the public in cases where public awareness of a specific incident is necessary to prevent an incident or to manage an ongoing incident. With this bill, the government focuses on ensuring a high level of safety in network information systems by key critical operators in the transport sector. It is essential for us to be able, in any case, to ensure the maintenance of good mobility in Denmark. Let me conclude by thanking you once again for the positive comments. I look forward to the committee's examination of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133344	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133348	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. A brief question: now the Minister mentions four players who would be immediately considered to be covered by this legislation. The four actors are currently subject to the applicable personal data legislation. Will it change if this legislation and the centre are anchored under the FE?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133421	I need to dig deeper into that in order to respond with complete certainty. Anyway, the purpose of this is not to monitor the users of transport systems. The aim is to prevent attacks on transport systems, so it is not at all user data that is essential here. It is external attacks that are essential here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133446	Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133447	Thank you. In other words, we know from the United States that in the prevention of incidents, users' data are also being used, so this can be discussed. That's one thing. The second is that the Minister spoke of 'no', and I am asking that as a written question instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133517	Then we say thank you, because this probably doesn't require an answer. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133522	In fact, it is a little in the wake of Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen's question, for there are always many good purposes for one thing and the other, including data collection. However, there is always a risk of abuse, and the best way to avoid abuse is, of course, that there is a great deal of transparency in it and that there can actually be a demand for insight into what kind of information you have and what kind of information you exchange, possibly with other so-called national contact points. That is what becomes essential, and it is also what I hear in this debate that a whole range of rapporteurs are expressing concerns about the fact that, if there is insufficient control and transparency in collecting data, how are people's personal data protected? I mentioned this myself in my rapporteur's speech. Now I do not know who will be appointed, but there are some of these transport operators who actually have large amounts of personal data on people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133636	Well again: The purpose of the bill is not to use data on travellers. The aim of the bill is to secure against cyber attacks on information systems in the transport sector. Well, it's not about who's gone into and out of Copenhagen Airport. It is about whether there are cyber attacks on Copenhagen Airport's IT systems, and that is something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133706	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133708	Yes, yes, I fully agree with that and, as a starting point, I do not suspect anyone for absolutely wanting to abuse it either. The only problem is that if there is no control and transparency, there is always a risk that somebody will sit somewhere and abuse the information and the data that comes into your possession. I mean, I'm thinking about the Travel Map, for example. That is, in my opinion, an important operator. If the system around the travel card is hacked, the ticket systems in public transport in Denmark are largely down. But they collect a lot of personal data about people in connection with the Travel Card, and can they be exchanged? Or will they be exchanged with other national contact points, in other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133751	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133752	I'm gonna have to give you a written answer to this. In my reading of the bill and related material, I have focused on the fact that this is about external attacks on these systems and not about sharing data about travellers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133819	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133833	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220133859	This is a very positive and good proposal, which stems from the fact that, in the context of the movement pool negotiations, extra money has been secured for individual disabled transport, so that forward-looking attention can be given not only to those who have a movement handicap but also to those who have a visual disability. You can take care of those who are blind and those who are partially sighted, so that they also have access to an individual carriage of disabled persons. That would be a tremendously positive step in the right direction. This will give a group of disabled people more freedom of movement, and it is tremendously positive. It has also had a scheme in 2017, and it has been a success. This system can now be continued for a number of years, with this 85.5 million. kr., you have been put off in connection with the bet pool. So it is good and strong work that the various disability rapporteurs have done in this area, and now we have the pleasure of having to translate it into law as transport rapporteurs. We on the Socialist side are proud and happy to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134013	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134026	Thank you. After all, it is a happy disability rapporteur who is standing here today on the platform. In the Danish People's Party, we have long fought for blind and partially sighted people to participate in the individual disabled driving, and have also wanted to join the negotiating table in several rounds. The 2018 Rate Pool Agreement succeeded in finding a permanent solution. The draft law presented here extends the individual disabled driving according to Section 11 of the Transport Companies Act, which currently only covers persons with reduced mobility, to blind and highly visually impaired persons. It is a great victory for the blind and the weak, but also a great victory for me as the disability rapporteur who has been working for this for a long time. In the Danish People's Party we have wondered that some of the people who find it difficult to engage in public transport, for example. by not being able to find the bus stop and the like, has not been included in the individual driving system and it is only difficult persons with reduced mobility who currently have a legal right to use the individual disabled driving system of the transport companies. The municipalities have been able to choose to offer blind and partially sighted participation in the scheme, but it has been free choice for the municipalities, i.e. a rule of choice, and this has resulted in discrimination. As a blind or weak-minded person, you have been dependent on which municipality you have lived in. This has also led to a great imbalance in relation to different levels of service and discrimination against blind and visually impaired people. The scheme provides for at least 104 trips per year from street door to street door for visiting citizens, and this applies primarily to driving for leisure activities or other purposes not covered by other driving arrangements. The initiative extends the target group in such a way that blind and highly visually impaired people throughout the country have access to individual disabled driving on an equal footing with the current target group. It's a really good day today. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the parties involved in negotiating this issue and to the fact that we jointly found a permanent solution. The bill will enter into force on 1 July. Of course, in the Danish People's Party, we would like it to come into force as soon as possible so that it could benefit the people it is about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134250	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134302	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here today is a very welcome draft law, because it is, after all, a follow-up to the rate pool agreement, where money has been set aside for 2018 for the extension of the individual disabled driving. Nowadays, this system only covers persons with reduced mobility, but with this bill and its implementation, we ensure that individual disabled driving in the future also includes blind people and those with very low vision. There is a clear need to extend this effort. The target group for enlargement here is people with a visual acuity of 10%. or less. It is based on the assumption that people with moderate lack of vision will be able to participate in general public services, whereas this group we are talking about here needs this extension of the system. So this is a very good step, as other rapporteurs have already mentioned, and which we fully support from the Left. I think that the interest-pool parties deserve praise for having taken advantage of this area, so that a group of citizens can now have their quality of life increased by being better able to get around in traffic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134421	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134430	I would like to begin by pointing out that I have to inform you from my good colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Karsten Hønge of the SF, that they so much vote for this bill. So does Enhedslisten. After all, as has been pointed out, it is part of the 2018 rate pool agreement that the individual disabled driving is now being extended to include blind people and those with a very low vision beyond those with reduced mobility who were already covered. It is, of course, a long-nurtured wish from the disabled organisations and, above all, from the organisations of the visually impaired, so it is gratifying in every way that we have now come this far. But I cannot help but drip a little wormwood into the cup, and that is, of course, because Enhedslisten is against the way you finance this. As I have said, this is done through the pool agreement, and we are opposed to social contributions being financed in this way through the pool. As you know, the funds in the rate pool come from a small amount of adjustment, namely 0.3 percentage points of all transfer income. So it can be said that those who have the least, those who are forced to live on transfer income of one or the other nature, whether they are cash-aid recipients, whether they are unemployed, whether they are ill, whether they are pensioners, whether they are disabled or in this way they are financing their efforts against the very weakest in our society. We really think that is a rather strange thing to do. In fact, it happens that you feed the dog with its own tail. The aim of the wage pool is to improve efforts for the socially vulnerable, but, as I said, it is financed by the fact that those who have the least in this society are financing their efforts against those who have even less, or who are even more at risk. Difficult persons with reduced mobility and the blind and partially sighted are included, but they must finance it themselves through their transfer income. I simply do not understand that parties such as the Social Democracy, the SF, the Radicals, the Alternative, etc. I'm gonna take part in this circus. There has been regular debate over all the years during which this mechanism has existed about whether this is really a fair way of financing things, namely that it is not the large community, that is to say the strong in our society, that must help to make the effort in this case for the blind and highly visually impaired in the individual driving of disabled people, but that it is they who already have the least in society. I think that is highly questionable. But it is clearly a step forward for those who are concerned, that is to say for the blind and those who are very partially sighted, and that is why the Enhedslisten is also voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134758	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134804	It is no secret that the Liberal Alliance is not a great supporter of the wagering pools as a concept. We do not think it is appropriate for the parties of the Folketing to be able to distribute the money in this way, but that is the way it is. In the course of the negotiations, as we have now heard, there are others. set aside money for blind and partially sighted people so that they can be offered individual disabled driving. Of course, it may be difficult to set a limit, but it is clear that blind and partially sighted people in general may find it difficult to use ordinary public transport, so there is also reason to allow them to benefit from the scheme on an equal footing with citizens with reduced mobility. We also note the very positive consultation responses and seemingly good opportunities to define the target group. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134901	One brief comment came from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134907	Thank you. I just need to know if it's the government's attitude to bet pools. Because there have often and often been discussions and questions in here about exactly how the rate pool is financed. So I should like to know whether it is the opinion of the government that the way in which they are financed today will be changed. Is this how I should interpret the rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134932-2	No, there is no reason to interpret it that way. I am just mentioning the fundamental view of the Liberal Alliance in having two kinds of financial laws, as one might say there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134947	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220134948	So, according to the Liberal Alliance, we have to abolish the rate pool, so there's only one financial law. That's pretty interesting. For the rate pool is what it is today because it has not been possible to find the funds elsewhere and you have no majority to change it. So if that is the position of the Liberal Alliance, then I also think that it will be the position of the government when you are a government-leading party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135016	We think that the best priority is to give priority to one place rather than to have several different boxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135032	The draft law here, L 136, has been examined very well by the previous rapporteurs; it is about the payment of the rate pool. I actually agree with much of the criticism made by the Enhedslisten rapporteur in relation to the funding of the pool scheme, but nevertheless the alternative has chosen to be involved in influencing the implementation of the funds. The fact that a majority can then be found for another type of funding is also something we would like to work for. We are therefore pleased that the rate-pool agreement with this bill is now being implemented, and it is positive that the individualised driving system for disabled people is being extended to include blind people and those with strong vision. I have a few points from the hearing which I look forward to discussing with the rapporteurs in committee. Firstly, what will be the cost of extending the scheme to all persons with a visual limit of 33 per cent who are the limit for receiving help today in the public system? Secondly, I think it would be interesting to explore other ways of searching citizens instead of the so-called objective criterion that is being applied today. It could, for example, be done. be an individual estimate instead, so that we have more contact and visibility and understanding of citizens' needs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135220	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135229	A few years ago, as far as I remember, I was approached by a blind person who was very unhappy that he or she could not receive transport, just as people with disabilities can. I have to admit that I started by replying that it could not be and that it had to have been misunderstood, because I was of the opinion that blind and partially sighted people were also part of that scheme. It turned out that it was I who was wrong and the citizen who was right. It has not been the case that blind and partially sighted were part of this system where one could be promoted. Fortunately, they are now doing so with this bill, which my colleague has mentioned is part of a pool agreement, but which is now becoming law in the area of the Ministry of Transport. We're part of that deal, and we're happy to extend this arrangement, so it's also for this group, so they can also experience the dignity of being able to get around society, even if you're blind or partially sighted. We can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135336	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135355	We also support the bill. After all, it is a rather simple legislative proposal which is simply about people with visual disabilities being given the same opportunities to get disabled driving as people with mobility disabilities, and we fully agree with that. In relation to the discussion on the rate pool, we are very much in favour of the way in which the rate pool is funded, but in this way agree with the Liberal Alliance that it will be rather unsightly with these rounds of bet pools, where politicians sit and distribute money to all their hoops, depending on which organisations are best at making themselves popular with the politicians who sit and distribute the money. So I kind of agree with that. However, we think that the way in which the funds are financed is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135446	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then we have reached the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135453	Thank you and thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The proposal has been drawn up on the basis of the 2018 Rate Pool Agreement, in which the Rate Pool Parties agreed to allocate funds to extend individual disabled services under Section 11 of the Transport Companies Act to blind and poorly sighted persons. Today, individual disabled driving is offered to persons with reduced mobility who have reached the age of 18. However, it has been assessed that blind and highly visually impaired citizens, in line with those with reduced mobility, may find it difficult to use public services. Therefore, the target group entitled to individual disabled driving is extended so that the scheme also includes blind and highly visually impaired citizens who have reached the age of 18. Generally speaking, there have been positive feedback in the context of the consultation of the Bill to extend the scheme. The consultation has thus not led to major changes to the draft law. However, the target group has been specified in the legislative notes and it is now also clarified in the comments that guide dogs can include a guide dog without any additional payment. In addition, I would like to inform the High Things that discussions are currently taking place with the National Association of Municipalities, KL, about what the bill involves in terms of expenditure for the municipalities. A total of 33 million has been committed. kr. annual to the extension of individual disabled driving to include blind and poorly sighted people. KL is of the opinion, however, that the extension of the scheme costs more. It is my ambition to agree with KL on the cost of the proposal before it is adopted in the Folketing. I shall, of course, keep Parliament's parties informed of this during the legislative procedure. If, contrary to our expectations, we cannot agree with the KL, it is my intention to table an amendment to the draft law so that the date of entry into force can be fixed by means of a notice when we agree on the economic consequences of the proposal. Of course, I very much hope that we can reach agreement on the financial framework for this proposal so that it can enter into force per year. July 1st this year. I know that there is a group of people for whom the adoption of this proposal means a lot to their ability to participate in social activities and their mobility at all, and I would be sorry that economic discussions with unreasonable demands had to delay the process. With these comments, I will conclude and hope that the draft law will be dealt with favourably and, of course, I am prepared to answer the committee's questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135733	Thank you very much, Minister. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135738	That was in relation to some of the Minister's last remarks. I just couldn't help being curious about what KL thinks it's gonna cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135750	I am not at present familiar with how much they think it costs. But they think it costs more than 33 million. kr. There is our assessment that this is not true. I think you have to see things like this, like you can always try to get some more money. And if you can get it, it's just good for the municipalities, they think.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135814	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135817	Thank you. In the light of the Minister's colleague's speech, I would like to hear about the discussion that has just been held on the rate pool. It is, of course, a discussion that we have had several times in this Chamber, precisely in relation to the fairness of whether or not it is the transfer income that has to finance it. So I would like to know what the Minister intends to do. Does the Minister intend to turn to his fellow minister so that another form of funding is available, so that there is no set-rate pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135851	I do not believe that it is the transfer income that finances the rate pool. In other words, the fact that transfer incomes do not increase as much as they would otherwise have done does not mean that the transfer income recipients finance the rate pool. There is an increase in transfer incomes every year and that increase is so little less than it was once. But that does not mean that it is they who finance it. It is the taxpayers who finance the rate pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135919	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135921	So the minister doesn't agree with his own rapporteur about this pool thing? So the Minister does not think that there are any challenges in relation to the rate pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135933	I haven't heard sir. Villum Christensen problematizing the fact that money comes from a certain regulation of transfer income. What I have heard him problematize is the actual distribution of money from the rate pool, and one can always have a discussion about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220135950	With that, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140014	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140034	Thank you. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to amend the driving licence order so that it is clear that citizens are not allowed to wear headgear on driving licences for religious reasons. As the authors rightly stress in the motion for a resolution, the requirements for the photography of driving licences must ensure that the face of the photograph can be identified in a relatively easy way with the person sitting behind the wheel. The clear starting point in the driving licence notice is that the photograph must show the face without a head covering. However, the municipality may authorise the wearing of headgear at the request of the applicant for religious reasons. It is important to stress that such permission can only be obtained if the main features of the face, despite the head covering, are clearly shown in the photograph. This is the case if the chin, nose, cheekbone, eyes and eyebrows of the face are not covered and if at the same time the forehead is uncovered to such an extent that the facial shape appears. If these criteria are met, he or she may be adequately identified even if he or she wears a head covering. It is my opinion and that of my ministry that it is essential for a person to be identified that the main features of the face from an overall assessment are clear enough. So what matters is not whether he wears a head covering or not. There are no real figures on how often municipalities use the possibility to allow a driving licence applicant to wear a head covering in his photograph for religious reasons. However, on the basis of a survey to four selected municipalities, the Danish Transport Authority has concluded that the derogation is only applied to a limited extent. Nor does the rule appear to give rise to problems in practice. Against this background, and given that the head covering, which makes the main features of the face visible, does not prevent identification checks, the government does not wish to support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140240	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140300	The Minister has already explained what the resolution is about here. It is quite true, as the Minister has also said, that it is already the case today that there are perfectly clear rules on how recognizable you should be on these driving licence photos: both eyes must be completely visible, the eye must be on the camera and so on. etc., even in relation to a smooth lighting, it is described what it should live up to. I think that there are some of us who are driving around with a driving licence, where we still have hair on our heads, and that way we may not be so recognizable in terms of what we look like today. But the point is good enough; there are clear rules in this area. We can then, as stated in the notice, apply for a derogation for exceptional reasons. It can also be for medical reasons and other reasons. But there is also an opportunity to apply for it for religious reasons, and that is what the Danish People's Party wants removed. There it is, then, that we on the part of the Social Democrats are uncertain whether this is a problem in the real world. Is there anyone who uses this dispensation to wear a head covering that makes it hard to recognize them? We're not sure about that. We would like to know more about that. I would like to take this opportunity to state in principle, as we are discussing these matters, that we in the Socialist Group feel that law and order must always be the most important thing. Religion must not take precedence. Religion must not take precedence over common sense either. So it should not be the case that you can use religion as an excuse for not recognizing a driving licence picture. But if you can be recognized, we find it hard to see what the problem should be. But there we are humble and listening to the fact that there are some proposers here who have a proposal, and then we have to hear what the specific problem is before we finally take a position on this issue. But at first we think it seems a little violent to be about to make a change of law because of this. We are not aware that there should be specific problems out there because people have a religious head covering on these pictures because there are very clear rules in this area. So we're gonna ask about this, and then we're gonna have to take a stand on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140528	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140532	Thank you. After all, I sense a small degree of openness in the Social Democratic Party for something that we can probably agree on. Now that this is about driving licences and recognizability, there has also been a law that our driving licence must be renewed every 15 years. That's one of them. also, for the image to be more up-to-date. We know about the fact that many people are still driving around with their youth photos on the driver's license. And then I actually think you should be able to see the face. This is, of course, a little ideological too, because why should we dispense? Then comes this argument that it probably doesn't happen very often, but basically it's also about whether we're not going to get back on track and off this road, where we take special care of one thing and the other all the time. That, of course, is also one of the elements of it from our side.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140626	I also think that the Minister was very clear in his statement that the rules are clear when it comes to recognizing this picture. It is very specific how the face should be recognizable. You even have to bring the top of your shoulders. It is very accurately described. There I find it difficult to see how a religious head covering the face, but on the head, should be a specific problem. Is it the case that the Danish People's Party would also have ruled out, for example. can have a Jew chalok sitting on the back of your head while you get a picture taken for a driver's license? Is that also the proposal of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140712	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140714	Yes, it then gave rise to a counter-question. But a castle that sits in the back of the neck is hardly visible when you are photographed from the front, no more than pick-up hair on the back of your neck. So maybe I thought that was a little thin from Mr. Rasmus Prehn's side. But I just want to ask you if Mr. Rasmus Prehn can completely rule out that e.g. two siblings who carry niqab may well be tempted to borrow each other's driving licences. And would Mr. Rasmus Prehn then feel convinced that it was the right person who was in the picture?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140749	I'd be very uncomfortable with the fact that you were about to wear niqab on these pictures. That is not our proposal or our policy. As I understand the rules described here, niqab would also not be possible, even with a derogation, because a niqab covers so much of the face that it is not within this. What this is about is that the current rules say that you should not wear head covering, but you can then apply for an exemption to have something on top of your head. It could be a Sikh wearing a turban, or it could be a Jew wearing a kalot, or it could be something like that. We therefore need some arguments to convince us that this should be a practical problem in recognizing the face. That's what's causing a little of our uncertainty about this. We do not really understand what kind of problem the Danish People's Party wants to solve with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140836	With this, we thank the Socialist rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220140845	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes with this motion for a resolution that the government should be required to amend the driving licence order so that it is clear that, for religious reasons, the photograph on the driving licence should not have a head covering. As the rules already exist today, a number of rules are laid down which specify what your photograph on the driving licence should look like. This is one of the places to be. requirements for it to be a well-like photo in which one's face, nose, cheekbone, eyes and eyebrows are not covered but clearly visible. By the way, just in a parenthesis noted about that with a well-like photo. So there is no requirement for it to be a good photo, and we are lucky about that. By the way, my own driving licence photo has a few years on the back, and I don't think I look much like the photo I have on my driver's license. In any case, I have on my driver's license hair on my head... but there are no beards and blue glasses. So it is true that some people notice that many people are actually driving around with a driving licence photo that does not look very good, but the rules on renewal of driving licences are being resolved in the future. However, the notice also states that a head covering must not be worn in the photograph as a starting point. However, this can then be dispensed from, and that is what the Danish People's Party would like to see changed. There I think we should look at when we deal with such a proposal as this, how the current rules are basically working in practice. That is such a very good starting point, I think, for us politicians. And there it is, after all, the report from the screening carried out by the Ministry at four municipalities it was shown that it is rare to use this exemption option. I think that is a key point. What is crucial for the Left is that you have an opportunity as a police officer, when you stop a user of a vehicle, to recognise the person, and that is why I fully agree that it should not be allowed to use niqab, which of course covers precisely the parts of the face that must be free. It should not be possible to use burka in the picture, it should not be possible to use elephant hat, because then you will not recognize the person. And that is exactly what I believe the current rules ensure, namely that you should be able to see the chin, nose, cheekbone, eyes and eyebrows and we hold onto that from the left side. So, on this basis, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220141126	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220141143	Thank you. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we fully agree with the speeches made by some of the previous rapporteurs, and not least the Minister, about this proposal. We believe that the proposal is completely superfluous in that it tries to make a problem out of something that is not a problem, because the police already have the tools to do if they think they are facing problems with the fact that the person depicted on the driving licence is now also the one who is driving the car, which may have been taken into control. So we consider the proposal to be completely superfluous and, in fact, part of the general persecution of Danes who have a different religion. In essence, Enhedslisten thinks that the Danish People's Party in their eagerness to appear as very, very Danish indeed actually appears quite unansk, in that we, after all, as part of the Danish values, behave in our opinion as reasonably tolerant. As far as this situation is concerned: if anyone thinks that they need to have a head covering on their driving licence for religious reasons, which, moreover, does not give rise to any problems in identifying, in the event that the person concerned should be subject to a check, then frankly we think that this is a fucking apology, that is not to say a rather sad proposal. So the Enhedslisten is absolutely and one hundred percent against this proposal, and I should like to say hello. Karsten Hønge from SF and announce that it is also from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220141342	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220141353	The Danish People's Party wants us to legislate on whether or not to wear headgear on the driving licence photograph, if it is for religious reasons. After all, in Denmark we have freedom of religion, and I think it may be a bit too small to wear shoes if we do not want to recognise that it can be very important for certain groups of people that they also wear a kind of head covering. The crucial thing must be to be able to identify those concerned when the driving licence is presented. As I read the notice, there are even very precise guidelines which can ensure that people can be identified, and that takes precedence over all other contexts. So in this way it is actually a problem to set up a non-problem, as Mr. Henning Hyllested also explained. Moreover, it will not bother us if we remove the ban on head covering completely if we can only recognise people, which is the crucial objective. It doesn't prevent recognition if you put on a hat, whether it turns forward or backwards. The Liberal Alliance rejects the proposal as it lies here from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220141510	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220141516	Thank you for that, President. With this motion for a resolution, B 31, the Danish People's Party wishes to require the government to amend the decree on driving licences so that in future it must be stated that citizens are not allowed to wear headgear on their driving licence photography for religious reasons. The alternative is by no means in agreement with the proposal. We are voting against because we believe that legislation should aim to take account of minorities as far as possible, based on the fact that we are basically in favour of an inclusive society in which the majority should at least allow minorities to be taken into account. As a starting point, I note that, for religious reasons, headgear can only be permitted on the basis of a specific assessment, as both the Minister and the other rapporteurs have examined it. And the rules in force do not cause any problems in practice. So I find it difficult to see this motion for a resolution as anything other than an explicit reluctance to take account of religious minorities at all. And we do not share that reluctance in the alternative. In the alternative, we are in favour of the Folketing making empathic legislation to the best of its ability, in which the formulation of the law is optimal in relation to the social relationship (s) that is regulated and is not a question of what can profile a party's policy. The decree on driving licences provides for a balance between different and contradictory considerations, in which it has been considered that the consideration of persons' religious beliefs outweighs other considerations. In this context, we can dwell on the fact that in Denmark, as also described by LA's rapporteur, freedom of religion is enshrined in the Constitution, and in many ways today, religion is taken into account in everyday life. For example, national public holidays are held every year to accommodate a Christian majority in Denmark. Furthermore, the Constitution also provides for freedom of religion and prohibits discrimination based on religious affiliation. It is therefore difficult for me to see a good reason why consideration should not be given to religious headgear when it comes to driving licences which are necessary for many Danes. I see this as a sensible consideration, because as far as possible we must ensure that everyone has equal opportunities to participate actively in society, which in this case means obtaining a driving licence. This resolution is a step in the wrong direction. Compared with other social groups, citizens with ethnic minority backgrounds feel less protected by the rule of law, the courts and the police. This motion for a resolution undermines the solidarity of ethnic minorities with the surrounding society, and that is problematic. I do not believe that a ban on wearing religious headgear on driving licence photography will reduce the problem I have just mentioned. In fact, I think the opposite is true. Instead of restricting minorities' access to society's opportunities and constantly focusing on this, perhaps we should devote a little more energy to ensuring equal treatment for minority dancers, including for example. equal access to, and equal benefit from, various schemes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220141852	There is one for a brief remark. Sir. Kim Christiansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220141857	That was an amazing sermon by Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. I just have one question for Mr. Simpson. Roger Courage Matthisen mentions this about giving all equal opportunities. What are the options in which you are restricted just because you are not wearing a head covering on a driving licence photo, but precisely because it indicates that you want to show your face and that you want to ensure that the driving licence is not fraudulent? In relation to the constitution and to the consideration of Christians, let me remind you that we live in a Christian country. It may be that it has passed over Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen's attention. And that is why, of course, there is also an agenda in this: why should we take all these special considerations into account? We do not think that we should. That's the one element of this. But there is also one element which is that we must prevent cheating and fraud on these driving licences. And then it may be that there are four municipalities that have been investigated, yes, but that is, if it is Læsø and Thyborøn and a few more, I understand that the result of this may be a little lean. But what are the possibilities in which one is restricted because one is not allowed to wear religious headgear? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142008	I am thinking that the questioner himself answered his question, namely that one is limited in exercising one's religion • that one might have a view that one is discriminated against on the basis of one's religion. Of the Minister for Justice's reply to the Committee on Legal Affairs to Question No. 849 it appears that, in the event that the specific head covering constitutes an obstacle to the proper identification of the person concerned with the necessary safety, the balance should always be in favour of the non-viability of the head covering. Furthermore, the Minister is not aware that the rule should cause problems in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142054	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142058	The rapporteur is beyond pedagogical reach. I'm gonna drop out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142100	Okay. Then we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142105	A picture for driving licences or passports, or whatever it may be, must, of course, live up to its purpose. And the purpose is to recognize the person who has received the driving licence and then the person who has the driving licence in his hand... the two must be one and the same person. The Danish People's Party has asked the Minister for Justice a number of times whether there is a problem with recognizing people on the picture they have on their driving licences, and there the Minister for Justice has also said that, one must understand, on behalf of among others. The police said there's no problem. And that is why this is a proposal which does not really have to solve any problem, as we see it in the Radical Left. It is the case that one can be allowed to wear a head covering for religious reasons if it does not destroy what is the purpose of the picture, namely that the person must be recognised. And so, of course, there will be some headgear that you cannot wear, because the person cannot be recognized, but there will also be some where it makes no difference from what is the purpose of the picture on the basis of a concrete assessment. And that assessment will therefore be carried out locally, and if the Minister of Justice and thus the police do not think there is a problem, then I see no reason why people are banned from wearing head covering on the basis of a concrete assessment. That is why we are not in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142242	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then we have again reached the Conservative People's Party, as the SF is still not present. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142300	Thank you. We cannot support the motion for a resolution, for the same reasons that several other rapporteurs have indicated. It is difficult to see who is really bothering and who is going to suffer from the fact that there are some people, for example. wears a scarf on a driver's license picture. As long as you can still recognize people, it shouldn't bother anyone. As a starting point, we do not want to bother any people, and that is why we find it difficult to support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142332	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, who is Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142340	It was a fantastic exit line from here, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, that you have no intention of bothering any people. No, but we certainly don't have that in the Danish People's Party either. We just think the rules should be the same for everyone. On the one hand, the rules say that you should not wear a head covering, that you should not wear a hat, that you should not wear a top hat, but, on the other hand, we all lay down flat, including an almost unanimous Parliament, as soon as it is religious, because let's finally get some more of these special rules. We do not agree with that in the Danish People's Party, and that is the one thing in this. Of course, there is also the point that we must combat cheating and fraud in driving licences. The minister has been out asking in four municipalities, yes, that's nice. There are 98 of them, and it's probably not in Ishøj that you've asked. But let this be the case, we will find out in committee. We must then get an estimate from all 98 municipalities of how many exemptions have been granted for religious reasons. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen said something about beard and blue glasses. Now we know each other very well, but I do not think it suits the rapporteur of the Left to go out and talk about beard and blue glasses and try to minimize this and almost have fun at the expense of this proposal. I think religious considerations are an increasing problem, and I have at least heard the Minister of the Left in this area have a similar attitude, so I actually thought that it was perhaps something that was agreed in the Left, namely that one should move away from the particular concerns we have had, in other words, mainly religious considerations. But it may be that we can clarify whether it was just a statement by the rapporteur of the Left. But, of course, I clearly sense that here is not a will to do away with this. Nor is there any desire to eliminate this possibility of cheating on driving licences because of a fear of contact with religious minorities. We do not have it in the Danish People's Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142557	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142602	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, including for his speech here. I was not fully aware of what the Danish People's Party would have liked excluded. For when I mentioned the example of a Jewish chalot, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kim Christiansen, that's not what you were thinking of, because you can't see it in the picture. But it's a religious head covering that you wear. Shouldn't that be ruled out by this, or how is that supposed to be? Can the rapporteur specifically mention what kind of religious headgear should not be available according to the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142645	In general, however, I do not think there should be any exceptions to any kind of head covering. The notice says that on a driving licence picture there should be no head covering, so it is. But now we hear all these statements from the minister that as long as it doesn't cover here and it doesn't cover too much over the eyes and eyebrows, you have to be able to see the chin and something like that. And I have to say that such a chaos in the back of the neck is certainly one of the most forthcoming in relation to the statement we received from the Minister. But in general, we should not take these religious considerations into account when it comes to the safety and fraud of driving licences.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142728	Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142730	So what the Danish People's Party is proposing here today is also that you should not wear a Jewish chalok if you get a picture for a driving licence. Is that how it's supposed to be? That is how I hear the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142744	The proposal states that religious considerations should not be taken into account, and then Rasmus Prehn can interpret what he wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142751	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142756	I'd like to ask Mr. Kim Christiansen: What harm does it do to people wearing religious headgear? However, when you are able to identify them because the face has to be free, what is the problem? We have it in this way with the Conservatives that if we are to ban something, it must be because what we prohibit does some kind of damage, either to society or to other people. There's gotta be something that's a problem. What's the problem with people wearing a calot, for example?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142828	Even the Conservatives are starting to be very concerned about a calot. It may also be a fez you have on your head, or it may be a cap, because people have their own little religion that makes it appropriate to wear a hat in certain environments. But I can turn to the question of what harms banning it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142857	No, you can't, sir. Kim Christiansen. You cannot turn things around like that and say: we are banning everything for safety reasons, because making an extra ban does not hurt anyone. There must be a reason why a ban is being imposed. As legislator, one has a responsibility to try to keep the amount of bans down. You don't just sit here and ban it because you think that banning it doesn't hurt anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220142921-2	Of course, there are several examples of politicians who have done so. But let it go. There are two elements in this which I have explained, and one is of course the safety of not being able to defraud the driving licence because the whole face cannot be seen. Then it may be that there are some rules that you should be able to see the cheekbones and one and the other. But if you wear a scarf, for example, everything else will cover a part of your face. I just don't think there's any reason for that. There's always a chance that people can look a little bit like each other on some of the facial features. And we have all heard of examples of driving licences that are 10 years old. We change all the time. So I think that eliminating this opportunity of cheating alone justifies the adoption of such a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143008	The next question is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143011	Thank you. Sir. Kim Christiansen made a comment on my rapporteur's speech, and thank you for that. I would like to make it clear with seven inches' nails that we in the Left have the deepest respect for all the resolutions that are being tabled in this Chamber and which may give rise to a debate, and this also applies to this proposal. My remarks about beard and blue glasses were more like that to make fun of myself in an unpretentious way, so I would like to make it clear that we respect the proposal and that we have dealt with it. But I would like to repeat that what is central to us is that you can recognize the person on this driving licence, so that the police have the opportunity to control it. That is what is at the heart of the matter, and that is why I should like to ask Mr Van der Klaauw. Kim Christiansen: If the rapporteur does not agree, is the key to recognizing the person and checking whether it is the right person to have this licence, as is claimed, and that we will therefore not put up with, for example, niqab and burka?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143106	Of course, it is central that you can recognize the person, but that is exactly what we question. When, for example, If two siblings are wearing a scarf, then there can actually be so much equality that one cannot be sure that it is the same person. It is then removed by saying that head covering is therefore head covering. There is, of course, a very clear rule that you should not wear a head covering on a driving licence photo. But there we lie down flat and say that if you just believe in something, then we have to dispense with it, and then you have to have almost anything on your head, as long as it doesn't just cover your face. But it can cover everything else, and we just find that questionable. It provides an opportunity for fraud, and that is what we want to remove. But we are quite alone in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143151	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143156	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech and the detailed remarks, where I have still not heard any evidence that this motion for a resolution is necessary. Now the rapporteur on the Left says that they have deep respect for all the resolutions that are being taken up and tabled. But I also have deep respect for the time and time of the people's regime: the legislation prescribes that if it prevents identification of the person, it will not be allowed, even for religious reasons. So I simply do not understand why the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party continue to argue that there can be confusion and cheating. They say they will by no means allow this head covering if that was the case. I admit that you can come up with some funny moves. I do not know whether the rapporteur is aware of the Austrian Niko Alm, who had a pastasia on his head on his driving licence photo, because his religion suggested that he should have it. It was silly, but you could still see his face.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143309	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143312	I can almost understand that, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, that this is more or less a waste of the time of the people's government and parliament, I thought so at least. I do not want to go into detail on how often I have felt that the alternative has wasted Parliament's time. So I think that we should perhaps be more concerned with the content of this and not with the question of whether, not necessarily for religious reasons, but for political reasons, we have a completely different position from that of the Danish People's Party. I have no doubt that you have. I wasn't before I came down here in the hall. So I didn't expect Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143351	Should I understand the rapporteur's answer that when the alternative puts forward things that you think are a waste of time, it is therefore okay to do so? In other words, does the rapporteur recognise that the legislation we have today works as intended, we are told by the Minister, we are told by the Ministry, we are told by the people who apply the law? Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143423-2	I would say that it was not here that you started a discussion about a waste of time. I think that all elected representatives have the right to make proposals and have them dealt with seriously and properly in the Chamber. I wasn't the one who questioned that fact. My position is still that doubts can be raised as to whether a person can be identified when he wears a head covering, a scarf or whatever. And that is the doubt we in the Danish People's Party would like to remove by removing these, I think, somewhat strange reservations. The rules must be the same for everyone, also in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143459	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143513	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143540	This bill is about whether you are eligible or not to sit on city councils, regional councils, citizen representation, etc. The proposal, in its simplicity, is that we in Denmark should abolish the Election Board and instead lay down objective criteria for losing one's right to vote in municipal and regional councils. That is the proposal of the government, and I can say from the outset that we Socialists support this proposal. I would also like to start by saying that I have promised to greet the Radical Left and say that they do. Then why are we doing this? Yes, if we look at the decisions of the Election Board over the last 15 years, we can see that there is a clear tendency in the decisions, and that is that if you get the sentence of liberty suspended or unconditional imprisonment • in almost all cases, it leads to the losing of your right to stand for election, while if you get a road ticket, you are of course eligible to sit in the municipal council or regional council. That is the guiding principle which the proposal here introduces as clear law. That is to say, there is no reason to have a discretionary process when the estimate, at least over the last 15 years, ends up in the same result anyway. So we get a predictability. We will also have a smaller administrative saving. And then we will also get right to what may have been a problem, namely: are all cases now also reported, and how does this happen? That too is being described more clearly. It is therefore our conclusion that this proposal helps to strengthen confidence in the democratic process and the institutions we have and in the legal complex of our democracy and the politicians involved at local and regional level. That is why, as I said, we support the proposal from the Socialist Group, and so does the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143806	Thank you, sir. Magnus Heunicke. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220143813	Thank you for that, President. We are dealing here with a legislative proposal aimed at abolishing the Elections Board by replacing it with legislation which lays down objective criteria as to when a municipal or regional council member loses his or her right to stand as a candidate. It will always be the type of punishment that is crucial. The penalty thus never results in the loss of a candidate, while the punishment of liberty, whether conditional or unconditional, always leads to the loss of a candidate. What can also be seen from the 159 cases that have come back from 2002 is that a member of the municipal council or a member of the regional council has lost his or her right to stand for election if he or she has been sentenced to the sentence of liberty, whether it has been a conditional or an unconditional prison sentence. These criteria must also be the basis for losing one's right to stand for election in the future. This bill also means that it is now the individual's obligation to report the loss of eligibility to a mayor or to a Regional Council President and not, as today, where there may be cases where the matter is reported to the Election Board. With the abolition of the Election Board, responsibility is removed from a political body, thereby strengthening the arm's length principle, where politicians do not influence the fate of other politicians, but leave it solely up to the judiciary to determine whether or not a person is eligible for election. There will no longer be any doubt about possible political influence in the individual's assessment, and this is good for both the politicians who have been appointed and the convicted. In legal terms, it is also a clear picture of the cases in which one loses one's right to stand for election when the decision is moved from an individual assessment on a case-by-case basis in the Election Board to a specific law on punitive measures and that it is the reason for the loss of the right to stand for election. In the case of a conditional judgment, there will in future only be a loss of eligibility for a period equal to either three or five years. In other words, it is an opportunity to rejoin the municipal council or the regional council during the same parliamentary term and not today, when they have lost their right to stand for election throughout the period and can therefore be non-elected for up to seven years, as the rules are today, when the electoral board can also say in a new election that a citizen is not eligible for election, so that he again loses his right over the period. With this law, we ensure that the sentenced person regains his or her right to stand for election after three or five years, depending on the judgment and has the opportunity to join a municipal or regional board, even during the same parliamentary term, and we in the Danish People's Party believe that this is right and proper. This bill also provides for the possibility, during the transitional period of 1 month after the entry into force of the law, of applying for a judgment under the new rules if the elections of 21 November 2017 were declared non-votable after the then Election Board. Finally, I should like to mention that the draft law will also result in a reduction in economic savings and an administrative relief. The Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220144143	Thank you. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220144150	The draft law on the reform of the right to vote can be supported by the Left, and we should welcome the Conservative People's Party and announce that they can also support it. We are doing so on the basis of what the two previous rapporteurs have said: transparency and uniformity, on the basis of what rules are based on whether or not one is eligible for election. I think we have seen a few examples of decisions in the previous system, which could little indicate a lack of uniformity for Jørgen Hattemager and King Solomon, in relation to which decision has been taken on the eligibility of a municipal or regional councillor, and that is no good. Having said that, I am fully aware that it can be difficult to make this area an area where you can pull a manual in a machine and say: this case looks like this and like that. Because in a political environment there may be special cases which require special insight in order to assess the extent of the damage. This is also a little the way I read the hearings from Danske Regioner and the National Association of Municipalities. This does not alter the fact that, in the light of the empire that has been in the past 10 years compared to the work that has been done so far, and in the light of the desire for uniformity, transparency and transparency, what is now being proposed is preferable. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220144355	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220144416	Thank you. The core of the draft law is, of course, the fact that, as previous rapporteurs have also pointed out, the election board is closed and that the power to deal with cases of local and regional elections and the suspension of mayors is transferred to the electoral board. At the same time, it calls for the legal criteria to be laid down for the abolition of eligibility, so that they become objective criteria laid down in the law, and that is all else equally preferable. The proposed criteria are also formulated on the basis of a review of the practice of the Vacability Board. This is the practice which is largely written into the law. There are also some improvements seen with Enhedslisten's glasses. From now on, it is only by final judgment or unconditional disqualification of driving licences, for example, that it can lead to the loss of eligibility. In other words, the penalty can no longer result in the loss of the right to stand for election. A suspended sentence of liberty may never result in the loss of a candidate beyond the period of office during which the person concerned has been convicted. Actually, it does today. The period for the loss of eligibility may not exceed: be 3 or 5 years after the punishment. This means that if the period expires within the parliamentary term, you can immediately rejoin the municipal or regional board. You can't do that today. We have to wait until the end of the parliamentary term. As a natural consequence of the introduction of statutory principles, a duty is imposed on the sentenced person to notify it when a penalty has been imposed which results in the loss of his or her right to stand as a candidate, and an obligation is introduced for mayors and regional councillors to contribute to the effective observance of the law. The National Association of Municipalities and Danske Regions are critical of the absence of local political representation in the Election Board. This could indeed be a relevant criticism, but it has to be said that the current local political representation in the Election Board is limited to one person from KL and one person from Danske Regions, so it must be said to be very limited in advance. However, the key point is that in future, when the criteria for the loss of eligibility are written into the law very clearly and made objective criteria, it will be a purely legal matter whether the law has been observed. In fact, we think it is very sensible to remove local political judgements... let's call it that in the kind of cases that exist today. In any case, this removes the possibility of accusations that decisions are dictated by party political considerations if anyone should have the ugly thought. We have no objection, of course, to the introduction of some kind of observer posts in the Election Board, so that KL and Danske Regions can have one representative each in the election board's handling of applications for election. But that is not something we are very concerned about, I have to say. In general, therefore, we believe that this is in fact a strengthening of the legal certainty of local elections in cases of loss of eligibility. You know what you have to stick to and what it can cost. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten we can support the bill and will, of course, engage in the committee work which may come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220144740	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220144746	Thank you. I am not going to go through the bill in detail; my colleague has done so well, but I will start by saying that we in the Liberal Alliance support the bill. There are several reasons for this, but the most important thing is that we reduce some administrative trouble or turn down the bureaucracy in these matters. It is perhaps a small fly bone in the debureaucratisation debate, but after all it is a real simplification. The practice of the Selection Board seems very clear and so it is, of course, possible to transfer the principles on which the Board is working to clear and clear legal rules, so that, as it were, we can save the expensive intermediary and, at the same time, guarantee the quality and, indeed, legal certainty of the proceedings, as has already been explained. These are very legally based cases, so there is good reason to base objective criteria. With these comments, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220144851	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220144859	Thank you very much. In the alternative, we have discussed this proposal and were inclined to support it, but thought that we would just hear the debate in the Chamber today, but I have to say that it has only confirmed me that it is right to support this proposal. The good arguments for this have already been put forward by several rapporteurs. And we would like to support the abolition of the Elections Board, rather than the setting up of more objective criteria in relation to eligibility for municipal and regional elections. We think it seems more transparent, more transparent; there will be greater uniformity; there will even be a little bit of bureaucracy; we think there will be greater objectivity; and then there are a few further improvements, such as the fact that we do not know, for example, that we do not know. The penalty will have its right to stand as a candidate terminated directly. So in the alternative, we think this looks reasonable and we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220145004	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220145006	Thank you for that, President. As the last rapporteur, like all the other rapporteurs, I would like to say straight away that I am in favour of the good intentions of this draft law. Objective criteria, in relation to when you are eligible to be elected to municipal and regional councils, are only a good idea, and the proposal can easily be seen as a much-needed debureaucratisation, even when the Election Board is closed at the same time. So SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220145040	Thank you. Then there are no more rapporteurs in the series of rapporteurs, and then it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220145049	I would like to thank the rapporteurs of Parliament's parties for their broad support for the bill. There are two reasons, I think, for this proposal. First of all, with the amendment of the law, we guarantee clear and objective criteria as to when politicians in municipalities and regions are not eligible for the option of punishment, and that is to say, as several of the rapporteurs have said, that there is really better legal certainty and that there is more transparency, transparency, because we know what the rules are. I think it is a good thing that we can also avoid having to discuss in the future whether or not there might be political motives. I am not saying that there has been, but I am just saying that that discussion on these matters has come up a number of times, and it does not suit our democracy. Secondly, with this amendment of the law, we are also abolishing the Elections Board, thereby abolishing some bureaucratic procedure and some bureaucracy, which is also a small step in the direction of debureaucratisation. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, of course, I am available to answer questions both orally and in writing if you wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220145207	Not at the moment, but maybe later. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180220145223	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 21 February, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
