ParlaMint-DK_20181025100039	The meeting is open. Thanks for last night, everybody. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate (Lars Christian Lilleholt): Bill no. L 78 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy and the Law on Electricity). Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 80 (Proposal for a law amending the law on Danish citizenship and the law on Danish education for adult foreigners etc.) Bill No. L 81 (Proposal for a law on the right of residence). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received the following letter of 24 October 2018: "The President of the Parliament Following the Prime Minister's recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 23 October 2018 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to the basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user administration, information security tasks relating to the previous ones and contracts and supplier management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations relating to Study Elections Denmark and Studenter Advisory under the Agreement between the Minister for Education and Research and the Minister for Public Innovation shall be transferred from the Minister for Education and Research to the Minister for Public Innovation per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign.: Lars Løkke Rasmussen The announcement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181025100156	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the 3rd Deputy for the Alternative in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Julius Graakjær Grantzau, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 1 November 2018, when Josephine Fock resigns his mandate per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It should be noted that the first and second alternates have announced that they do not wish to take over the vacant mandate. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025100233	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025100302	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025100413	In the Social Democratic Party we would like to emphasise that we are in favour of the single market in the European Union and freedom of movement as long as it is fair and it does not contribute to social dumping, and that is why, of course, we must also be careful to adopt legislation here in the Folketing, which could potentially impair the opportunities for free and fair movement within Europe's borders. But there are other considerations to consider. We also need to guard against Denmark again being hit by large flows of refugees and migrants in the future, and we must, of course, be prepared for that. That is why the Social Democrats continue to support the idea that, if we experience new flows of refugees and migrants, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration must, of course, be given the opportunity to take emergency action in the form of carrier responsibility. Denmark must also contribute to the reception of refugees, but this must be done in affordable quantities so that society can keep up. It is only a heartless society that does not take any refugees, but it is also a heartless society that welcomes more refugees and migrants than we can integrate. It will be the people with the shortest education and the lowest income who will pay the biggest price if we do not have controlled immigration. Neither the Danish population nor the residents of non-Western origin benefit from the influx coming out of control. However, as I have said, we support the possibility of establishing carrier liability in a special situation, just as we also have that possibility in our neighbouring countries, Norway and Sweden, but we also think it is sensible to have a provision that we follow up on how this option has been achieved, which has not yet been applied. That is why we also think it makes sense to postpone this revision until the parliamentary year 2023-24. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025100611	Thank you. No one has any comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025100625	Thank you. This bill deals with two small things: a routine update on carrier liability and a correction of an error in the implementation of an agreement of February 2018 to tighten up the requirements for spouse reunification. The Danish People's Party can support both. Transporter responsibility means that those responsible for the transport of people to Denmark, i.e.: trains, ferries and aircraft can be penalised if they transport people who do not have legal travel documents to Denmark into the country. The provision has not been activated in the context of temporary border controls, but it could be activated if a need arises. However, it requires that the provision on the possibility of activation of carrier liability be updated in the law. That is what is being proposed. Of course, we support this in the Danish People's Party. We are so much in favour of border controls that we would like to see permanent border controls, of course, and we are in favour of strengthening border controls when there is a need for them. Therefore, the possibility of introducing carrier responsibility is a good thing. The marriage union part of this bill is about correcting a mistake made in the implementation of the agreement between the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party in February 2018. At that time, stricter requirements for marriage union were adopted, but in the coinage a small part of the tightening was omitted by mistake. It is hereby inserted. When you correct this mistake, the rules for marriage have been tightened up, which we in the Danish People's Party see as a good thing. We do not want to hide the fact that we can still see away many ways of improving the legislation on spouse reunification. For example: As a general rule, it should only be possible for Danish citizens to have spouses from foreign countries to Denmark, and it should be easier for those who want spouses from countries that we know from experience do not cause as much integration problems as it does, for example. has proved to be giving with people from Muslim countries. So the rules can benefit from being tightened up in a large number of areas, especially once we have obtained a single majority in order to leave the international conventions in this area. It should, of course, be the responsibility of the Danish Parliament to ensure that Denmark remains Danish for many years to come. However, this bill makes a very small positive contribution to this. That is why it is good, and that is why the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025100853	Thank you. No one has any comments here either. Sir. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025100913	Thank you for the floor. It is in these autumn months 3 years since Denmark and Europe were in a very special crisis situation. We simply saw how Europe broke out and how an historically large number of refugees and migrants crossed the border with Denmark. I am absolutely certain that it is fresh in all the memoirs from here. At that time, three years ago, the government took stock of the extraordinary situation, and due diligence was exercised. A large number of initiatives were taken and new laws were adopted to ensure that our authorities had the right conditions to control the situations that arose as a result of the particular flow of refugees. The government's robust refugee course ensured that we got the situation under control, and last year, in 2017, Denmark got the lowest number of asylum seekers for 9 years. It is gratifying that the policy has worked. While, of course, this is really positive news, the current situation must not turn into a sleeping pillow. If there is one thing we learned in 2015, it is that things can take an unexpected turn very quickly. It is important to remember that there is still a great deal of pressure on Europe's external borders, just as there are still many foreigners within Europe whose cases have not yet been resolved. In other words, there is good reason for us to continue to ensure that our authorities have the right tools to deal with a possible new crisis situation, where the pressure on Denmark's borders again increases dramatically. That is why we in the Left also believe that there is good reason for the rules on carrier liability to be maintained. We believe that the rules remain an important part of the authorities' readiness to deal with a possible future situation in which pressure on Denmark could again be increased. Moreover, this is a consideration that we share with several of our neighbouring countries, because Norway and Sweden have also introduced and maintained the possibility of carrier responsibility. It is also gratifying that this view has spread. In addition to the one on the maintenance of the rules on carrier liability, the proposal also provides for an adjustment of the conditions for spouse reunification. Not surprisingly, we in the Left also support this part, because it is a question of correcting an error in the legislation, so what we have agreed is also in the law we have adopted. It is gratifying that the wording is now being brought into line with the agreement on new rules for the reunification of spouses. Against this background, I would just like to sum up that the Left, of course, supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025101200	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no comments here either. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025101212	Thank you. The proposal we are debating now has two elements that have nothing to do with each other. And to put it bluntly, it is a mistake to put forward such a bill, since there may be members of the Folketing who can support one element, but not the other. In relation to the public and the proper functioning of the legislative work, this would mean that the government put forward two separate legislative proposals on the two very different issues. Against this background, the Enhedslisten will propose a division of the bill into two, but that division should in fact already have been made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. The first part of the bill is about the so-called carrier liability, which was passed across the board in December 2015 but which has never been implemented. When carrier responsibility has never been implemented, it has good reasons. A transporter's responsibility at the country border in South Jutland will be a total blow to the air. For a period from January 2016 to May 2017, Sweden enforced a carrier liability on the border with Denmark. This can be done because you cannot go from Denmark to Sweden, but down at the border in Kruså you can take bus line 1 from Flensburg and get off at the last stop south of the border. Then you can go the last 100 metres to a person from the police or the Home Guard who is set to check passports and there apply for asylum. Transporter responsibility at the South Jutland border is therefore a Molbo-like measure which will not deter a single person from seeking asylum. That is why there are good reasons why it has never been implemented. The law that was rushed through the Folketing just before Christmas in 2015 contains a revision clause. It reads: The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing proposes a revision of § 1, no. 2 and 3, in the parliamentary year 2017-18. That's what the law says, and the law has to be followed. It just didn't happen. There was no review in 2017-18. Now the Minister comes up with a bill in the parliamentary year 2018-19 to postpone the review to a distant future, namely in 2023-24. Enhedslisten cannot support that. In general terms, Enhedslisten has no desire to punish carriers who allow persecuted people to buy tickets so that they can seek asylum in a safe country. How many people should then be granted asylum, how many will be received, is a completely different discussion • that has nothing to do with it. And even if it had, we would not therefore support a proposal for a carrier liability which, at least in relation to Germany, cannot be enforced simply because we are country-by-country with Germany. The second part of the proposal concerns the fact that, by mistake, applicants for family reunification have been made overly demanding. The lawyers of the Ministry should not be blamed for this mistake, because it is a symptom of the fact that our law on foreigners has become completely incalculable for even trained lawyers. It is high time that the law was transposed so that it can be readable only to ordinary lawyers, let alone those citizens without a judicial degree, to whom the law is intended. But, of course, that's another story. The Enhedslisten can, of course, support the correction of the error so that the terms of the law for family reunification are not even stricter than those agreed by the government and its support party in February of this year. As Enhedslisten opposes the first element of the bill and supports the second, and as there is no factual link between the two elements, we propose, as I said, that the bill be split. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to call on the government to put forward separate legislative proposals in the future on each subject when it comes to such a pile of weddings.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025101611	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has any comments. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025101619	Thank you for that, President. At a time when the EU's external borders are not properly protected by effective external border controls, we need to have a standing readiness in case we see scenes like those we saw in late summer 2015. Denmark was unprepared at the time, but we are no longer. Part of the explanation for this is that we can introduce carrier responsibility for the protection of our borders. That is why, of course, we can support this proposal. It is the task of the state to protect its citizens and, of course, we need to be able to control who is crossing the border. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025101714	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025101721	Thanks for that, and it's been great up here. It is very good to see that people with disabilities now have access. It's been very nice. But it's Bill No. L 55, we are debating here today. We are dealing first with the draft law, which contains two different amendments to the law on foreigners, which have nothing to do with each other at all. Like the Enhedslisten, we propose that the bill be split up, because there is absolutely no correlation between the two parts of the bill. One part of the proposal deals with carrier liability, and the other part deals with an error in the law on marriage. I can start by saying that, if we cannot split up the bill, we will have to vote against the overall legislative proposal, as we do not agree with the part relating to carrier liability. The draft law will continue the provision introduced in December 2015 that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration may impose criminal liability on carriers provided that they bring foreign nationals without the necessary travel authorisation and visa to Denmark from another Schengen country if temporary border controls have been introduced at that border. The carrier liability means that airlines, bus, train and sea transport operators are obliged to carry out checks on passports and visas for travellers across the Danish border. In the alternative, we fully understand that the government wants to be prepared to deal with exceptional situations and therefore wants to have the necessary preparedness. However, as we also said last time, in 2015, we find it deeply problematic that carriers should be subject to criminal liability. We voted against the proposal to introduce criminal liability for carriers, which was tabled in 2015. We did so because, as a general rule, we do not believe that private or state travel companies should be required to carry out this regulatory control. We do not believe that they can be expected to have the expertise and resources to carry out such a task, and that is why we do not think it is reasonable to impose criminal liability on them either. Authority control should be carried out by official authorities and by personnel trained for the task, including conflict management. This should be done because it is not fair to place staff in situations where they can be penalised because, for example, they are not entitled to be punished. has misjudged the validity of a visa or passport. In practice, this may mean that people who, under international law, are entitled to seek protection if they came to Denmark are deprived of that right and are therefore also placed at a disadvantage in terms of legal certainty. Therefore, it is best for all parties that regulatory control is always carried out by official authorities. Against this background, the alternative cannot vote in favour of that part of the proposal. That is why, as I have said, we would like to table an amendment calling for the legislative proposal to be split into two parts. We would like to vote in favour of the second part, because it is a question of changing the wording of the terms of marriage because there has been an error. We do not, of course, agree with the law on marriage, but of course we think that the mistake made in the law should be corrected as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025102031	Thank you. No one has any comments. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025102039	I think there is a need to establish that neither border controls nor carrier liability change whether asylum can be sought or asylum granted in Denmark. On the contrary, it can be argued that border controls make it easier to apply for asylum because you can go to the policeman or the person from the Home Guard who is there and seek asylum. I think it is a tale and a myth that it has the big effect on how many people can get asylum in Denmark. It is therefore also surprising that the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party are so concerned about making this carrier responsibility and wiping off a very expensive authority task on the companies. I do not understand that, for example. a party such as the Liberal Alliance supports this and that one is talking about the fact that it is an important state task, while at the same time wiping off the entire bill for an authority task that should be the state's, on the Danish business community. I am also very doubtful whether such a carrier's liability, in which DSB, a bus company or other, should be responsible for checking passports on the bus, the train or whatever, has a huge effect on the flow. For as Mr. So Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten said that we are country-bound with Germany, and an asylum seeker can just get off the train or bus, hitchhiking or other, and then walk the last meters across the border if that's what you want. So I think it is quite out of proportion to say to a lot of companies and to business that they should receive a lot of costs for transporter responsibility and, in principle, can also receive penalties if they are not in control. If a majority in this Parliament wants this border control, one should at least say that it is the state that pays for it. So we are still opposed to border controls and carrier liability, just as we were when the law was drawn up, and that is why we are, of course, also opposed to extending the possibility of what the draft law is proposing here. As several rapporteurs, among other things: The rapporteurs from the Alternative and Enhedslisten have mentioned that the second part of the bill is to correct an error made by the government in the legislation, which is about people on permanent residences being able to have spouse reunification. Of course, we want to help to correct this mistake, because, as the law stands here, it makes it easier to have a marriage union. So we would also like to support the proposal to divide this proposal into two, and then we would like to be able to vote against the part dealing with carrier liability and the other part dealing with correcting this mistake. I hope that the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party will share the bill so that we parties who would like to support some of it can have the opportunity to do so. If the bill continues to be assembled in the way it is now, we will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025102349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025102359	The fact that you run a lot of minor things together in a bill is not uncommon. It's not good to do it, but when you do it, and if you do it, it's just technical stuff. I believe that everyone who has been in a government knows that this may sometimes be the case if it is technicalities in which a draft law on each technicality is not to be drawn up; that is not always necessary. However, if there are politically controversial issues, it is not right that everything should be put together in a legislative proposal. And the debate here shows that there is disagreement, in other words that people are voting differently from the two different things that are in this bill. That is why I am assuming that the government itself will take the initiative, albeit not so, so at least support the division of the bill. Everything else will be completely, quite unreasonable, also in contrast to good legal treatment here in the Folketing. As far as carrier liability is concerned, we voted against it at the time when it was adopted, in 2015, and it was on the basis of some of the same arguments that have been put forward here in today's debate, namely that it is a task of authority that should not be transferred to private operators, to the private sector, and therefore it is not a task that can be transferred to bus companies, DSB, etc. That is why, of course, we are also opposed to it now. After all, there is no longer any pressure on the proposal as a matter of urgency in 2015. At that time it was hi-hi, now we really had to get this done quickly, because at that time we saw a lot of people coming up against the Danish border. This is rarely a good argument for making far-reaching legislative proposals, but today it does not hold anywhere at all. That is why we cannot support that part of it. The second part, where you correct a mistake, so that you make it less tight to get a marriage union, we can support it. However, as I have said, I assume that the government will also support the division of the bill into two, otherwise there is no reason for the Folketing to accept that all sorts of things should be piled together in a single legislative proposal. This is an unsightly starting point, and when it is done it has to be because it is technical things that are not politically controversial.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025102653	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025102701	In the summer of 2015, we experienced one of the biggest refugee crises on Danish soil since World War II. Everyone remembers the pictures of people wandering up the highway. This testified to a situation that was out of control and where the EU and the nation states did not have the necessary tools to deal with such an extreme situation. In 2015, 21,316 people applied for asylum; in 2017, that figure was 3,500. This is because the government has introduced a series of austerity measures aimed at managing the flow of refugees. One of the most central measures is temporary border controls. In 2015, the refugee system collapsed in the EU • therefore, a number of countries took the consequence and introduced border controls. We believe, as a starting point, that such cross-border issues require cooperation across the Member States of the European Union. We want the European Union to work to get its external borders under control so that we can once again have confidence in the internal open borders. We want Schengen to work again. However, when we experience a crisis like that in 2015, we believe that the nation states have the right and duty to secure their own borders and control has been an important tool. The bill here acts among other things. on carrier liability. The provision that we introduced in 2015 allows the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration to require passenger transporters, such as DSB, to check passengers' travel documents. We believe that it is quite natural that companies working with the transport of people across national borders also play a role in ensuring that passengers also have a right to enter the country. This is already done in the case of aircraft, for example. DSB has threatened that it will no longer be possible to drive trains across borders, and that is nonsense. If travel home can be checked in the form of a valid ticket, a passport can also be checked at a country border. Therefore, we believe that we can easily amend the revision clause and look at the law again in 2023 and 2024. The draft law also contains an element which concerns an amendment to the provisions of the law on the association of spouses. The rules were changed as a result of an agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. However, there has been an error in the drafting of the law, and with this proposal we ensure that the provisions are consistent with the intentions of the agreement. We'll back that up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025103013	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025103027	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their speeches. The draft law, as all the rapporteurs have mentioned, consists of two parts: revision of the rules on carrier liability and adjustment of the conditions for marriage. The rules on transporter responsibility in the context of temporary border controls, as mentioned earlier today, were introduced in 2015 during the refugee crisis, where an historically large number of refugees and migrants crossed the border into Europe and therefore also to Denmark afterwards. Denmark was in an extraordinary situation, and both Europe and Denmark were under pressure as never before. In response, Germany, Norway and Sweden chose to introduce temporary border controls at their borders, and both Norway and Sweden also introduced rules on carrier liability. The Danish provision in this respect means that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration may at any time decide that the rules on carrier liability applicable to the external Schengen borders shall also apply to entry checks at the internal Schengen borders. The purpose of the rules on carrier liability is to ensure that the carrier carries out a check on travel documents and visas before aliens are transported to the country. Transporter responsibility is only to be introduced if it is deemed necessary to ensure effective border control, and so far this has not been the case. Since 4 January 2016, Denmark has carried out temporary border controls at the Danish-German border and in the Danish ports with ferry connections to Germany. In addition, since its accession, the government has carried out a large number of tightenings that have made it significantly less attractive for asylum seekers to apply to Denmark. This has led to a significant reduction in the number of entry and asylum seekers. However, having said that, we must not forget that many foreigners still sit in Europe waiting to have their asylum case dealt with, and there is still considerable pressure on Europe's external borders. On 12 October this year, the government decided to continue temporary border controls for a further six months and, furthermore, we note that the other Nordic countries still see the need for their legislation to allow transporter responsibility for the implementation of temporary border controls at internal Schengen borders. I therefore believe that we cannot reject the fact that there is still a need for tools to deal with a possible new crisis situation, where pressure on Denmark's borders is increasing dramatically. The rules on carrier liability are an essential element in this respect. So, regardless of the fact that the rules on carrier liability have not yet been applied, I do not believe that there should be any change in the rules at this stage. It should therefore continue to be ensured that the carrier can be required to check travel documents and visas for foreigners brought here. The draft law therefore proposes to maintain the provision on carrier liability, and the bill also proposes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, in the parliamentary year 2023-24, i.e. in five years' time, should present a new legislative proposal on the revision of the rules. After all, this bill also has another element, and it is about correcting an error in the Aliens Act that occurred when the law was amended in June 2018. In short, it is proposed that, in order to obtain marriage reunification, the resident must fulfil at least one, instead of two, as is stated in the law, out of three so-called additionally transferred conditions. With the bill, the wording of Paragraph 9 of the Aliens Act will be deleted. 16 will be brought into line with the agreement of 7 February 2018 with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party on new rules on spouse reunification. The Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration is informed by letter of 3 July 2018 that I intend to take steps to implement this change as soon as possible in the new parliamentary year. To conclude, I should like to thank you for today's debate and, of course, I look forward to the issues that may be either now or later in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025103519	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025103533	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025103550	Thank you very much. When dealing with a case of an employee's sickness benefit or job clearance, there are always several considerations to take into account. Of course, it is always necessary to ensure the legal certainty of the individual in relation to the fact that very private and confidential information is given to the employer, while at the same time giving the employer the opportunity to have as much insight into the matter as possible when he has a party to it. However, this has meant that there have been several problems with these cases, a situation which is thought to change this proposal. The current legal state is not appropriate. It has been found that the rules of the Administrative Act do not provide the employee with reasonable protection of health and medical information in cases of sickness benefit and job clearance. Of course, this can mean a great deal to the individual and can have consequences in the relationship of trust between the doctor and the patient, as well as the employers and employees. And this will probably be understood to affect both the treatment of the patient and, above all, the maintenance process at the workplace, which is super important for getting the individual back to work. It has also been shown that it was not clear enough what information the employer might receive, and therefore there have been some doubts in various cases. The whole of the proposal is that an employer should not, as a general rule, have the right to have access to health and other medical information, in addition to the fact that, where the employer nevertheless has the right of access to health and other medical information, it is only entitled to obtain information, such as: are included in consultation letters and not the underlying statements and records. With this change, I believe that it is much more accurate what employers should get from information, while also ensuring that the private information they want to keep between themselves and their doctor remains there. And it's also really, really good. There have been many good comments in the hearings, some of which have also been included in the draft law, and I think that is very good. Among other things: of course it makes sense that it is not only information from the doctor, but also from other practitioners that helps you to get well that can stay between the practitioner and the individual. Because it is of course extremely important that health professionals get the right information in order to be able to help the individual onward it can be information of a very, very private nature. It is also important, however, that the bill does not limit the possibility that the employer and the workplace will be able to help maintain and bring the sick person back into employment, so that you also know exactly how the employer can help the individual in the best way possible. It can, of course, be a challenge when the disease becomes a private matter, while at the same time doing everything possible to get the individual back to the labour market or back to the old workplace. Therefore, it is also good and very, very important that guidance is now being provided in the Ministry on the guidelines, possibly with examples, so that the legislator's intentions become clear and operational. In those words, we clearly believe that this is an improvement in the law and can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025103859	Thank you. No one has any comments. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025103914	Thank you for that, President. Well, this bill, as the previous rapporteur has examined, is an important part of the work to ensure that if you become ill, you can return to the labour market as well as get the right treatment. It should not be the case that an employee is caught up in the event that medical information is required, which is unnecessary for the employer, and that the employee feels that he is being put under pressure. That is why it is also made clear in this draft law that the employer has the right to obtain medical information only if it is of economic interest, and that is whether it is important for the employer to be reimbursed or not. It should not be the case that the employee suffers. Clearly, it is also the case that if an employer seeks access to health or medical information at a time when the employer's access to reimbursement is not contested, it will not be acceptable. Then the employer cannot be given the right to take part in the illness. So all in all we in the Danish People's Party believe that this will provide greater certainty that the employee will not be under pressure and will not get any information about his illness passed on to the employer, which is not necessary for the employer to be reimbursed, nor has anything to do with whether the individual can return to the labour market. If an employer wrongly receives information which may affect the individual's return to the labour market but which is unnecessary for the employer, then it can put the sick person under pressure, and of course we are not interested in that. But as we see it, this will be an improvement in the rules and provide both employees and employers with the right treatment. So the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025104122	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025104133	Thank you very much. In the Left, of course, we believe that we should generally treat citizens' personal data in a secure framework and with respect for privacy. That is why I think this is a very sensible proposal, because it strengthens the framework for when and how far employers can look into employees' personal data. In the past, the employer has had greater access to personal information about an employee in connection with cases of reimbursement of sickness benefit or resource recovery benefits, even in situations where it could be found unreasonable or inappropriate, and that of course does not hold up. The information exchanged between the individual citizen and, for example, a doctor must, as a starting point, be confidential, that goes without saying. It is of course crucial that you as a citizen feel in safe hands and should feel in safe hands, both at the medical desk and at the workplace. Having said that, there is no point in putting up such close Scots that we prevent the employer from being able to defend his own interests in cases of refusal of reimbursement. So, in the view of the Left, it makes sense that the employer can continue to gain insight into health and medical information when it is of crucial importance in cases of reimbursement of sickness benefit or resource-flow benefit, but with the important curl that it is done on the basis of a concrete weighting of the citizen's confidential information and the employer's financial interests. I recognise that this is a balance. On the one hand, we must guarantee the employee's right to privacy and respect for confidential information and, on the other hand, we must ensure that the company can gain insight into the information that is essential to whether or not it can be reimbursed. We think that balance has been struck with this proposal, and that is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025104345	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025104358	Thank you. The draft law is an improvement on the current state of law in which an employer has the right to obtain confidential health information about his employees if the employer is a party to a claim for reimbursement of sickness benefit or resource recovery benefits. But I must say that we are not impressed by the improvement. The proposal clearly gives the employee a slightly better protection against disclosure of confidential information to an employer, but the proposal does not prevent the employer from being made aware of the employee's health information. The starting point of the proposal is that the employer has no right to be made aware of health or medical information about the employee. That is, of course, a better starting point than there is today. However, the employer may nevertheless have access to them if the information in question is essential for the employer to be able to defend his financial interests in a case of total or partial refusal of reimbursement of sickness benefit. However, if decisive consideration of the employee's interest in secrecy is required according to the particular nature of the relationship, the employer cannot have access to health information. It's kind of back and forth, on one side and on the other side. There is a thought-provoking distinction in language here, namely between essential and crucial. If the employer can argue that it has a significant impact on the employer's finances in a reimbursement case, then the employer can have access to the health information, but in a generalised form. However, if the employee's interest in the employer's not receiving the information is to be taken into account, it must be of decisive importance to the employee. In other words, language must be understood as meaning that the employee must argue a great deal more strongly for his case than the employer must. Can one imagine a case of stopping payment of reimbursement to the employer where the employer does not have a significant economic interest in getting that case buried and having the employee's situation clarified in more detail? This is probably going to be difficult, because it is of course about the employer losing some money, so the employer will have a significant interest in that, probably unfortunately. This will be clarified by the courts and further treatment and complaints, and what I know, but there is no clear strong starting point for the employee here. The concrete material improvement in this is shrinking into the fact that it is only the relevant information and not the underlying certificates, declarations and records which are the basis for health information that the employer can gain insight into. This is, of course, a step forward, and that is why we support the draft law. However, on the basis of the general information on the employee, the employer will still be able to find out what the employer should not actually know about, namely what the employee is failing and why the employee is ill. Unfortunately, the limitation on what material the employer can access only appears from the comments. We believe that this should be included in the legislative text itself. As I said, we are in favour of this, since there is, after all, the improvement described, but it does not go far enough and we will table some amendments. And the only way to secure the employee here is to follow the Social Advisor Association's proposals, so it will be clear that the municipality and the Ankestyrelsen are not allowed to provide health and medical information to the employer unless the employee has approved it. Then, of course, the question is: what about the legal certainty of the employer? And that is not because we are just going to drive across it, but we are in a situation where we cannot treat both equally well, and that is where we give priority to ensuring the employee much better than it is in the proposal here. And then it has to be said that after all, the employer will still have the opportunity to complain to the Ankestyrelsen about the municipality's decision. And the Ankestyrelsen is in possession of all information concerning the citizen's health and health care, because it is clear from the entire documentation to which the Ankestyrelsen has access when assessing the complaint from the employer. In fact, there will also be a number of cases in which the employee and the employer are likely to have a common interest in a refund case, i.e. that the employer wins the refund case, because it is, of course, due to the fact that the municipality has stopped the employee's sickness benefit. And, of course, this increases the risk that the employee will be dismissed if the municipality no longer pays the reimbursement. Whatever the reasons for the absence, it in itself puts the employee in a vulnerable position and in those situations the employee may have an interest in the employer receiving the information. And then you have the opportunity to say yes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025104902	Thank you. No one will comment or ask a question. Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025104911	Thank you for that, President. As previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the proposal here should narrow the possibility for employers to obtain health and sickness information on employees in connection with sickness benefit and job clearance. Health and disease information should be private from the outset, and we in the Liberal Alliance therefore very much welcome the fact that the employer's ability to obtain this information is limited. Unfortunately, it is not entirely possible to remove the possibility, because the way in which the system is linked today in terms of reimbursement, the employer may have significant financial interests in knowing some health information. However, the proposal here minimises the information provided so that the employer does not receive information as long as the reimbursement is not changed, and then ensures that the information is filtered so that only the part relating to the employer's financial interest is disclosed. We think this is sensible and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105014	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105022	Thank you very much. In the alternative, we are strongly in favour of personal freedoms, including the protection of the Danes' privacy, so private health information must, as a starting point, be personal, and this bill is clearly a small step in the right direction. It is a small step which limits the employer's right to obtain confidential information about employed citizens. We would like to go further down that path, because we have no objection to looking further at ways of restricting the employer's right to obtain confidential health information about citizens, so we are ready for that. But as a starting point, this is a small step in the right direction, so the alternative will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105118	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105125	Thank you. With this proposal, we would like to emphasise that employers should not have access to health information that is not relevant. Unfortunately, this is a relevant clarification, but it gives employees a stronger legal position. We can, of course, support the proposal radically.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105143	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105153	The current situation is not good enough. Doubt about what information an employer can get creates insecurity. There must be more clear lines of protection for employees. In the SF we see that in the future there may also be conflicts between the employer's right to information on the health of employees and the need for employees to be familiar with their own health situation, and we have some doubts as to whether this bill, also in practice, will create clear lines and a sufficiently clear legal position for employees. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the draft law is an improvement on today's situation and therefore the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105238	Thank you. Sir. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105244	Thank you. This proposal is, of course, a quite sensible legislative proposal, and it does not need much comment on the way, but as several rapporteurs have said, it is a small step in the right direction and we actually think it is a very good step. It has been the case up to now that employers have had the opportunity to do so, I do not know, but may I say pry? It is possible to pry into the medical information of employees, and this is now restricted by this bill, so that information can only be obtained when there is a specific need for the information to be used to protect the financial interests of employers in the event of a refusal of reimbursement. So we actually think that this is a very good legislative proposal and we fully support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105334	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105339	I would like to start by thanking you for the many comments and also constructive comments made in connection with the draft law we are discussing here, namely L 69. I am also pleased that there seems to be broad support for restricting employers' access to health and medical information. The aim of the bill is that the employer should not receive private and extraneous information about the employee which does not affect the employer's right to reimbursement. The proposal therefore ensures that the employer is not made aware of health and medical information about the employee unless the employer specifically needs the information in order to be able to take care of his financial interests in a refusal of reimbursement. However, this applies only if decisive consideration of the employee's interest in secrecy is not required according to the particular nature of the relationship. In this way, the right balance is ensured between the employer's interest in being made aware of such information and also the employee's interest in the employer not being aware of such information. However, I would also like to say that this is a difficult balancing exercise, which is why I think we need to have a thorough committee procedure. And that's what I'm gonna say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten, who is very wise and right to put his finger on some of the difficulty levels. And that is actually one of the things I would also like to use the committee procedure to elaborate on, so that we can get a lot deeper with regard to the intention of the draft law. But the truth is that, and that's what Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen said, as Radicale's rapporteur, that it is to correct the unfortunately inappropriate way in which the legislation has been applied. And that is why we need this improvement, which I would like to stress it is. However, I believe that we need to discuss this jointly here during the committee procedure, and that is why it is my opinion here today that I should like to put forward a constructive discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105544	Then there is a comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105548	Thank you, and I'd like to sign for that. So, my business is really that if we could have an even clearer definition of employees' rights, that would be a good thing. I am aware of this may be difficult when, like a clear majority, they have said that they are taking it as it is. But my next errand is to ensure that everyone has a completely realistic picture of what it really is for an improvement, so that no employees out there believe that a law has now been made that the employer cannot have access to know what is wrong when you are on sick leave. And that is not the case, and I just think it is extremely important that we should be absolutely clear about what the improvement is, but also about the limitations that still remain, in relation to the rights of employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105639	I can only take note and also sign for, it can be said, the positive approach to discussing this issue. And that is precisely why, on the basis of what Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech that we would like to have the opportunity to make this point in committee, it might be said, further clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105659	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105713	The debate is open. Karin Gaardsted, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105730	Thank you. When compensation for loss of working capacity or compensation for loss of breadwinner has been awarded in Greenland, it applies to compensation for work until retirement. There's really nothing wrong with that. However, the problem has arisen up in Greenland because compensation for occupational injury is paid only to the age of 65, while in 2017 the retirement age rose to 66 years and, moreover, in 2021 will increase to 67 years up in Greenland. The draft law must therefore close the gap which has arisen between the expiry of work compensation and the retirement age, so that no one in Greenland who has been awarded work compensation will be in a situation where they do not receive money for a whole year. So, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports that hole being closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105844	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105856	Thank you, President. The draft law of the Minister for Employment aims to ensure that injured persons covered by Greenland's occupational injury insurance will in future receive compensation until the retirement age in force at all times. It is therefore a technical amendment to the law which ensures that a period is no longer allowed between the age of 65 and the retirement age for the injured person, but that in future they will receive compensation until they reach retirement age. This is sensible, and in the Danish People's Party we support sensible legislative proposals which ensure that citizens do not run the risk of sitting between two chairs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105940	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025105952	Thank you. With this bill, the government will ensure an updated legal basis for Greenlanders with reduced employability. The bill comes as a result of the increased retirement age in Greenland from 65 to 66 years, and this has resulted in a number of Greenlanders with occupational injuries having lost their occupational injury insurance, which has been given as compensation for labour costs. However, in the view of the Left, the increase in retirement age should not affect those who have already been affected by illness or occupational injury and who, therefore, cannot make a living on their own. Personally, I welcome this bill. This helps to ensure that the most vulnerable Greenlanders who are either unhappy have become too ill to work or otherwise have been injured as a result of their work. And, as the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the bill ensures Greenlanders born before 1953 so that they can continue to look forward to compensation given as wages up to their retirement age. This ensures that the increase in retirement age does not affect those who are already experiencing difficulties, and therefore the Left will vote in favour of the bill. Then I should like to welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately could not be here today during this debate, and to say that they are also voting in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110114	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110120	Thank you. As far as this is concerned, this can be done briefly, because it is a good legislative proposal that ensures that compensation for loss of employment and compensation for loss of breadwinner will run to the retirement age in Greenland at all times. So Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110147	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110155	Thank you. This can also be done quickly because, as several rapporteurs before me have already said, in the current legislation on occupational injury insurance in Greenland, compensation for loss of earning capacity and compensation for loss of breadwinner will cease when the beneficiaries reach the age of 65. Of course, this is not appropriate when the Greenlandic Parliament has increased the retirement age from 65 years to 66 years and further from 66 years to 67 years when we hit 1 January 2021. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we also believe that it would make sense for us to now close that gap and thus ensure that the payments of compensation are measured for the period until the recipient is entitled to a pension • exactly as is the case in Danish industrial injury insurance legislation. That is why the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110251	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge. It was obviously a technical error and we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110304	Thank you. L 70 has been well examined by the previous rapporteurs. It is a very sensible change of consequence to ensure that there is no gap of one or two years in which people receive neither compensation nor pension. Moreover, it is also the view of all the Greenlandic parties that they support it. We support it, too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110328	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Karsten Hønge from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110338	It is obvious that compensation for occupational injury must continue until retirement age. And if we do not change the legislation, there will be a gap of up to two years. People suffering from disease should not be penalised further. That is why the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110354	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110414	Thank you very much. Inuit Ataqatigiit also supports the bill, which ensures that payments of occupational injury insurance can continue to be paid to the person concerned until the age of retirement. Several rapporteurs have also mentioned this. We have not so many additional comments, other than that there is also clear support from Greenland. We think it is a very positive proposal and support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110441	Thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110452	Thank you to all the rapporteurs who have been on the platform, and also for it here, you might say, very broad support for the legislative proposal that we are now dealing with first. There is no doubt that this is a more technical approach to ensuring consistency between Danish legislation and legislation in relation to Greenland. That's why there's not much to say. This has been well examined by the rapporteurs and it is quite natural that we should now put this in place. That is why I am also looking forward to a good committee dealing with a very simple legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110532	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025110549	I do not see that the tax minister is in the Chamber, and that is why I am obliged to postpone the sitting for five minutes. We shall postpone the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111017	We will continue Parliament's readings. We are in the process of the first reading of Bill No. L 29. The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111041	Thank you. They have already been on the agenda so quickly that we had to postpone it a little, but now we are here. The draft law contains, among other things: the implementation of various parts of the agreement on business and growth initiatives from November last year; an agreement which the Social Democratic Party is not party to. In fact, we tried to do so and were in the negotiations for a long time, but I think, for some tactical reasons, that we ended up not being able to reach a broad agreement on those initiatives. Apart from that, there are a number of simplifications and changes, especially in the motor sector, i.e. vehicle-related taxes and regulations, which are being changed. I would like to start by saying that making some of the clean-up of taxes and administrative burdens is an objective that we agree on. That is also why we really would have liked to have been in a broad agreement at that time last year. I really think it is more sensible than so many other measures the government wants to take in the business sector to clean up some of these obsolete taxes. There are also some of the administrative burdens in the motor sector that are being reduced by this bill that we can support. However, the main issue in the legislative proposal here from the business and entrepreneurial package is the PVC tax, that is to say to abolish the PVC tax and remove the packaging tax on PVC foils. We think the government and the parties to the agreement should have used that money to make tax reliefs other than this one. It is claimed in the draft law that there are really no environmental and health consequences. That is not what is included in the consultation responses of some of the green organisations that have been consulted. It's still a problem when there's PVC and phthalates in these foils and other things being used. That is why we do not think it should be adopted. It is a number of different laws that are being amended by the bill here. This action around PVC is mixed with, for example. these changes in the engine and vehicle areas. We think it makes sense that the National Police Commissioner can give relevant authorities in other EU countries the right to seek information from the Vehicle Register that has been passed on to the police. There is a common European directive in this area, which must also be implemented by means of the legislative proposal here. We think this is a good thing and can help to solve crime more effectively, but also to reduce some of the fiscal problems that exist in this area. Then there are some other changes relating to the exemption of part-time firemen from the purchase of daily certificates in connection with the use of a yellow plate car. That is sensible, good action. So we are actually going to propose that we split up the bill. We would like to give our support to all the elements that are not about the PVC tax. We must then see if we cannot do this in committee. This requires political goodwill from the other parties and from the tax minister, but if you want to have broad support for many of these measures, which are actually quite reasonable, then it is therefore necessary for us to have these things taken out on the PVC tax. Because we believe and would like to listen to the green organisations which point out that this remains a problem. Then I cannot help but regret at the end that we have to postpone publication and application of the standard lease contracts. This is a problem on which there has been a great deal of focus and where we also had the impression from the negotiations that have been held with the tax minister that it could be done here by 1 January 2019. So it has to be postponed by a year. I understand that we cannot just decide to be different. There are simply some administrative reasons why this must be the case. Nevertheless, I think it is a pity that we cannot keep to the timetable that we were promised when we had the political negotiations. However, these should be my comments here at first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111451	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111454	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In order to prevent the Social Democrat rapporteur from using his brief comment to me on a division, I can at least say that we will take a positive view of it if we want a division in committee. But that is not what I wanted to ask, but it was about the PVC tax. The rapporteur is right, and so we have seen in the hearings that there are still challenges with PVC, and that is not really what we are trying to override with this. The only question is whether a tax regulation is the best way to deal with it: that is actually what we are trying to deal with here, where the tax has no effect on how much is being spent and it has no environmental impact. This does not mean that we should not continue to do anything about the consumption of PVC, but it is perhaps better under the auspices of, among others. The EU rules, which are, after all, those that make the tax superfluous today, can almost be said. By the way, we are also the only country in the European Union that has a tax here. So with that in mind, could it not get the Social Democrats to reconsider it? Because it is not a for or against whether to do something about PVC, but a recognition that the tax here is simply a bad management tool for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111559	Thank you for the announcement immediately that the Danish People's Party will be willing to make a division. Then I would say that it is perhaps a question of what you expect to happen, for which it is difficult to give some very strong proof in advance. However, what is the attitude of the green organisations that are consulted on the legislative proposal is, of course, a concern about the proposal in relation to environmental and health effects, and indeed a general assumption. All other things being equal, it is also clear from the considerations in the government that there is a risk of increased use of these materials if there is no tax. It may be that you think it is not so much, but why do you even do it? Why not, now that we have agreed to have some means of reducing different excise duties by means of it may have different good reasons • spend that money in some areas other than this where, in our opinion, there are doubts and risks of environmental and health problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111704	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111707	Thank you. I understand that there is concern on the part of the various organizations, but this report on the improvement of taxes shows that it says: there are, however, no adverse health consequences in the distribution of PVC film due to EU regulation of PVC film for food. So there is not this health risk, at least not according to the report prepared by the government. So I guess it doesn't make much sense to have a tax that costs business 8 million. kr. to manage when it has no effect and when you now have an EU regulation that actually handles it very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111749	My argument will be that the same relief from an administrative burden somewhere in the business world can then be done in another area. But it is simply unwise and careless to do this. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær refers to the tax relief committee, and they have actually acknowledged it directly in the word usage here ^ that the removal of the tax all other things equal will lead to increased consumption. At the same time, the Danish EPA says PVC is the plastic type that causes most damage to the environment and points out that a number of phthalates are endocrine disruptors and harmful to reproductive performance. I think that's too easy with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111826	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025111841	Thank you. As previous rapporteurs have also said, this draft law is what we call a joint legislative proposal, which means that it contains 13 different elements. Some are big, others are smaller, some are dealt around, and something is so just something that the Ministry has thought it might be a good idea to solve, and that might be fine. But when there are so many measures, because of the time I will not mention them all here, also because some of them are quite small. The first two measures I would like to mention are something that was agreed by the Business and Growth Initiative Agreement of November last year. The first is that there are some de minimis limits on when taxes are to be paid to the State, i.e. a de minimis limit of 10,000 kr. That's one of them. in order to help small and small businesses, which can have a lot of administrative difficulty when they know very small amounts of money to sit and settle taxes and charges. This does not mean that they do not have to keep a record of that, but I think it is very reasonable that we should have a de minimis limit, so that such rather small amounts do not have to be taken into account. Another thing, then, is the abolition of the PVC tax. I usually call it the tax on rain clothes or the charge on the overdraft to the grill, because that's what it means out there for real people. We try to regulate behavior through taxes, but do we want people to wear less rain clothes? I do not think that is the case. It is, after all, an approach that comes from the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which states that it is a tax which has little effect on health and the environment, but which, on the other hand, causes a lot of trouble with the administration of companies, in other words, a tax in which the administrative costs and the lack of environmental effects do not match the revenue. It is the case today that there are some 370 companies that calculate this tax, and it brings the state about. 25 million kr. in a lasting effect, but companies then spend 8 million. kr. It is not the best tax to manage it, and when it has no environmental impact at the same time, it may not be the best tax to have. It may also be very good to see that Denmark is the only country in the EU that has taxes on this. Does this mean that you just have to have free rein, that we need more PVC? No, of course not, but that just means that the tax is probably not the best way to regulate it. The European Union has many good rules in this area, which are also about more international measures to combat harmful PVC materials, and this has actually been handled very well. That is also what has been achieved in other countries where this tax has not been needed. So we are, of course, in favour of trying to reduce the use of PVC if it is something that is harmful in some context, but the tax is just not the best way to regulate it. Another measure which I really think is a little strange in the proposal is that of excluding part-time firemen from the purchase of daily certificates, and that is a very positive thing. It is true that if you have a yellow plate car, there is a good system where you can buy a day certificate, so you can actually drive in private in a yellow plate car. But you gotta buy these licenses before you drive. It goes without saying that if you are a firefighter and are called for an emergency, it is a little difficult if you have to go to the website tax.dk and buy these daily certificates before you have to go out to the fire. It doesn't make much sense, and then it makes sense that you can do it afterwards. However, I think we should see whether we cannot go further and completely exempt people as firefighters or other people who have to drive out for an emergency. Why do they even have to ask for these certificates and in and spend time on it? Could we not just completely exempt part-time firemen from having to buy them and say that if, as a natural part of their work, they drive for an advance, they should not think about it any more? Then it must be something you could solve. So I would like us, in committee work, to try to go into some detail about whether we could now ensure that they would not have to do this at all. It's not trouble, it's a good enough arrangement, but then they don't have to buy these certificates, which, after all, will be a good thing afterwards. We also think it is positive that the proposal for a directive amends the self-reporting system in the area of motor vehicles. We think it is good that Tax is now being given the opportunity to reject the fact that one can enter the scheme. There is a proposal to postpone the date of notification of standard forms for leases. There we are a little too sorry that we have to postpone it. In fact, we see it as a very good tool to be used, both to ensure that revenue payments in the leasing sector are not the same way, but also a good consumer protection, so that you know what you are actually signing, and then it is a very good control tool for the tax administration. But it's hard if the standard contracts aren't ready. Then we cannot sit and say: No, we want them now. We're kind of sitting there with our arms on our backs. We almost have to say yes to postpone them, but we just want to stick to the fact that we in the Danish People's Party think it is an important tool and will therefore stick to the fact that we must of course have them made. I think these should be my comments on the bill. There are many extra things in it, but time prevents me from saying more about it, and I would also say that many of them are quite small. But overall, we support the Danish People's Party's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025112339	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025112354	Thank you. As my fellow Members have said, this proposal translates parts of our agreement on a business and entrepreneurial package, and we are, of course, very pleased about that. What we are doing in concrete terms is, as has been said, abolishing a tax on, among other things. PVC foils, and we do so because we do not believe it has much effect. We really want to get rid of plastic in relation to a lot of things, but this has very big administrative consequences. What it includes is what Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also quite rightly said, the things like barbecue covers and other things where we do not think it is likely that it will have the big impact whether there is this tax on it or not. But that does not mean, of course, that you should not pay attention to plastic at all. In addition, we introduce a de minimis limit for registration in several tax laws. This means that for companies that receive and hand over taxable goods each year corresponding to a tax that does not exceed DKK 10,000, it will be relaxed, and we are implementing the CBE directive and a number of other things. These are a lot of different topics, but basically we think that this is something that all in all helps the different things. So the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025112517	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025112537	After all, this bill contains a large number of different proposals, and on the part of the Enhedslisten we will be voting against it. We are doing so, not least because of the removal of the PVC tax. The draft law says that there will be no significant environmental impact of removing the tax, even though it is of course expected that there will be an additional consumption of PVC when taxes are removed, which is quite logical. PVC is a dangerous substance, it is difficult to handle in incineration, it is bad in waste sorting, it forms hazardous waste, and it often contains the hormone disrupters called phthalates and which, among other things, contain the hormone disrupters. is harmful to fertility. We must also just say, if we are based on what the Ecological Council says, that they do not in any way agree with the neglect of the environmental consequences set out in the draft law. If you start from what the Ecological Council thinks about this here, and we take that up from Enhedslisten, they write among other things.: The environmental organisation The Ecological Council strongly opposes this. PVC is an environmentally harmful material and it destroys recycling when mixed with other plastics. The incineration of PVC waste produces 15-30 times as much residue as the incineration of ordinary waste, and PVC residues are to be deposited as hazardous waste. In future, when PVC becomes exempt, it will be paid by the other waste producers (households and businesses). This means that there will be an indirect and environmental subsidy for PVC use. The Board also writes: "The Ministry also referred to the fact that the administrative costs were too high. the proceeds. However, the PVC tax has not been put in the world to raise the proceeds... so money... but to help solve an environmental problem. In addition, the revenue is artificially low, as the tax has not been adjusted since the year 2000. In 2006, indexation of energy taxes was introduced, but not by environmental taxes. Instead, if you say the Ecological Council • regulated the tax with price developments, both environmental impact and revenue would increase significantly. ▪ The latter seems to me to be a very good point and, in fact, an overlooked point, namely that there has been no regulation of environmental taxes. This should, of course, happen, because we know that the entire tax structure provides the framework for the consumption of environmentally harmful substances, and thus also that higher taxes contribute to the phasing out of those substances which we do not like and which are endocrine disruptors and which are harmful to nature. One last thing that it is important to mention when we talk about the business package is funding. That these relaxations and reliefs include... is financed by savings on DSB, public transport, is of course not very wise at a time when we have some very threatening climate change, and when public transport will be a major piece in terms of Denmark's contribution to fulfilling our part of the responsibility to avert a very threatening climate disaster. Another part of the funding for this also comes from the so-called room for manoeuvre, i.e. the money that is in the box and which, among other things, is. has come into the box by making several deteriorations for people who are sick, disabled, unemployed and where people have been promised that the money would then be used for increased welfare. And now a part of that money becomes, among other things. used to make further tax reductions which, moreover, are very likely to have a clear adverse effect on the environment. So on the basis of that, Enhedslisten's position on this is a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025112950	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113000	Thank you for that, President. This proposal is part of the effort for a less extensive and more transparent tax system. The levy on PVC and PVC films is proposed to be abolished altogether. At the same time, it is proposed to introduce de minimis limits into several tax laws. We really appreciate that in the Liberal Alliance. There are basically two ways to reduce the use of harmful substances. One is taxation and the other is regulation. There is regulation in this area. There is EU regulation that ensures that no more PVC is used than securely. And when you have regulation that reduces the harmful use of a substance, you should not also have taxes. This is the expression of double regulation. That is why it is natural that the PVC tax should be abolished. Otherwise, it's just an expression of a money machine. This proposal also opens up the possibility for the tax authority to refuse approval to companies under the self-registering system in the motor sector and to throw companies out of the scheme. The self-reporting system is based on trust and, of course, if you cannot live up to that trust, you should not be in the scheme. Finally, the CBE Directive is being implemented so that other EU Member State authorities can draw on vehicle register information so that it is easier to deal with traffic infringement cases. Of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113144	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113153	First of all, I would like to say that, in general terms, I think it is good when we have the opportunity to divide up a legislative proposal if there are elements that we can support, but others that we cannot support. So the more we can share, the better it is. So we will also support the Social Democrats' proposal to divide it up. Isolatedly, this would then be the proposal for the PVC tax • I could understand that in the rapporteur's view if possible. That would be fine for us in the alternative, because we cannot support that part either in the legislative proposal. Generally speaking, we are mainly in favour of voting against, but it is a balancing act, because in the alternative we both claim that we want to and actually want to debureaucratize. And there are a lot of good elements in this bill. On the other hand, we also think that there is a side of battle in several places, as far as the green bottom line is concerned. There I imagine I will come back with three or four elements that I would like to separate from the bill. Then it may be that we end up with one thing now we'll see or that we won't end up with anything at all. But there are many good elements in the proposal, so I do not want to say unequivocally that we are against it, but unless we get it divided, we will be against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113258	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113307	I would like to start by commending the government and the tax minister for being good at finding or accepting good proposals for minor changes with this bill and also the next one we are going to discuss. I take this as a symbol of the fact that the government and the tax minister have chosen that when citizens or companies address some problem in tax legislation, it is actually taken seriously and ends up in the Parliamentary Chamber as well. For example, you can take this proposal for part-time firemen, who today apparently have to search in advance if they want to drive their yellow car when they have to move out in connection with their work. Now they can also be allowed to do so afterwards, in case they have not prepared it before they have to work. It is such a very logical thing as there must be some in the Treasury who have brought in when some have written about it. I just want to commend that. That is why we can also support all these minor proposals which a number of my fellow Members have examined and which I do not want to spend any time on. Then there is the matter of the PVC tax, which others have also debated before me. First of all, I would like to say that we, on the part of the Radical Left, would like to support the fact that the bill is being divided, as the Social Democrats proposed, so that the parties that want to vote differently from the various parts. The abolition of the PVC levy is not a radical policy. We would have liked to be on the sidelines, but that is part of the compromise contained in the business package, and that is why we are voting in favour. As we see it, removing this tax does not give more jobs or more growth. We would like to remove and ease taxes if it can create something for society, for the community, if it can create more jobs, more investment, more innovation, more entrepreneurship, and these are also some of the things that are included in this package, and some of the things we are happy about, in this package. But this tax seems to us to have been retained and we also believe that there are some negative effects of abolishing it. But it is part of a compromise and we are voting in favour because we had some other things in place. So we vote for the entire law, even if it is divided into several different laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113535	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113539	This is a bit funny, because I have seen in the daily press that, if there is a new majority after a forthcoming parliamentary election, the Radical Left will reinstate this PVC tax, which this bill is about removing. So if we now find ourselves in a situation where we split up the bill, so that the PVC tax gets its very own bill and we have a situation where the Radical Left says that the Radical Left is against, and the Radical Left says that we will have a new majority after a forthcoming parliamentary election, then the Radical Left will be in favour of a PVC tax • then, in the specific situation with the concrete bill, the Radical Left will vote in favour of abolishing the PVC tax. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113622	Correct, because that is what we have agreed with the government and the Danish People's Party, which had probably removed that tax no matter what. It is a vote agreement as it is called, and that means that we have agreed to vote in favour of this bill. If, at a later stage, a majority can be formed to make the tax again, we are free to vote with the Enhedslisten to reinstate this tax, so we would like to do so at a later stage if the majority were to change, and we hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113653	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113654	I think it is strange if we are so opposed to the PVC tax, as I hear from the Radical Left, that we can reach an agreement where it is made in this way. It's a very dangerous substance. But I am glad that it is confirmed here from the platform that there will be a new majority, but then everything will be rolled back, and then we will have the tax reinstated. At least it's nice to get the clear message, but I think it's gonna be a funny vote, don't you think? In other words, when the PVC tax is split into a separate bill and the Radical Left sits and votes in favour of abolishing it, but then, on the other hand, says that you want to reinstate the tax after the election, that is a rather strange situation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113735	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113738	I do not think it is because it is, after all, negotiations and compromises. That is what democracy is. We have been introduced, for example. to lighten the electricity tax so that we can get more renewable energy into district heating. We introduced a subsidy for what we can call green petrol, that is to say petrol produced on agricultural waste products, which will also reduce CO2 So we got some things from the Radical Left with the 8 mandates we have, and then the government and the Danish People's Party have also got some things that are not our policy. But it is a compromise, and that is how democracy is and must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113817	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025113826	I can also say relatively briefly that the reason why we cannot vote in favour of this proposal is, first and foremost, at least the proposal to remove the PVC tax. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency's website, i.e. a government agency, says that PVC is something that is very harmful to the environment because, when it is burned off, hydrochloric acid is released. And when you have to use it for soft products, so to speak, for example. Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's rainwear, then you need phthalates to soften it. phthalates are harmful to human health and there are at least three phthalates that are evidently damaging foetuses in pregnant women. So it's a pretty dangerous substance, and it's serious to remove this charge. And that is the main reason why we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. As several of my colleagues have said, there are also a lot of things that are just common sense and make good sense, because this is a big proposal, for example. the proposal in relation to firefighters who are not professional day-to-day firefighters. Now I'm from South Jutland myself, and most of our firefighters are volunteers, so it just makes really good sense. However, it is a pity to pool a proposal that contains things that are just common sense and make very good sense with something that at least the Green Parties in the Folketing are very concerned about avoiding. This also applies to those of us who are concerned about health and who say that under no circumstances can we help to remove the PVC tax. So the SF can't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025114014	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025114024	Thank you. The draft law here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, contains a whole range of different elements. First of all, the proposal contains yet another implementation of our business and entrepreneurial package that we made last year. In concrete terms, it is a question of abolishing the PVC tax and the packaging tax on PVC film, because it is estimated that the charges no longer have any health and environmental justification, while it causes a lot of administrative trouble in the companies. A de minimis limit is then introduced for the registration and payment of taxes, so that companies which trade only to a limited extent in taxable goods can save both time and resources. In Denmark, we have far too many fees that cause more trouble and administration than they make sense. In the Conservative People's Party, we are working to make it easy to operate in Denmark, which is why we are pleased that with this bill we will have another reform of some of the taxes that Danish companies are struggling with. These are taxes which have a very limited tax revenue for the state but which cause great irritation to those who have to calculate and report it in the companies, and also because it has to be controlled by the authorities. Our tax system is complicated and there is a need to clean up and make things simpler. In this way, it will be more manageable for both citizens and companies and, above all, for the authorities. These tax reductions are a small step along the way. In addition, the bill contains a few other elements. In the motor field, for example, we are opening up. It is also important to ensure that companies do not in future have to pay registration fees for vehicles used for, for example: testing equipment, and that, of course, also makes a great deal of sense. There are also a number of other elements that have been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, and I will not list them here as well. I just want to say that, of course, we support the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025114230	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025114242	I would like to thank you for receiving the bill. As a tax minister, I am basically of the opinion that, to the extent possible, we must avoid troublesome and burdensome taxes. And as a number of rapporteurs have said, that is exactly what we are doing with this proposal. We adjust, clarify and clean up the tax jungle so that companies and citizens are not burdened with inappropriate financial or administrative burdens. In addition, the draft law contains a number of other different changes to the rules, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned: daily certificates for part-time firemen and others. I believe that this is a citizen's request, and there are other things that have been brought up to the Treasury and to me as a minister, where there is a need to adjust a little in the legislation and where it has to be said that it does not make sense. And so do we with this proposal. After all, the key part of the proposal is the implementation of the agreement on business and entrepreneurship initiatives from 2017. In this context, there are also proposals for more minor reductions and simplifications in the motor sector, which benefit both citizens and businesses. Common to the proposals is, one can say, that they make it cheaper to be a Dane and easier to operate in Denmark, and for me as tax minister it is important that there is a focus on cleaning up troublesome and burdensome taxes. At the same time, it is also important for me to listen to what is being pointed out and adjust when we come to the Ministry of Taxation from citizens and companies and industry organisations. This is what we are doing here in the proposal. And, as I hear the rapporteurs, there is also support for most of what has been proposed. Then there's a desire to split up the bill. As a tax minister, I am always in favour of a division. It is ultimately up to the committee and Parliament to decide, but I do not see any problems in that, but must ask those who wish to do so to make a formal request through the Tax Committee. Then I should say, and not so many rapporteurs have mentioned that there is a small body of the Ministry of Justice's area in the bill. Indeed, we are implementing the so-called CBE directive so that the other Member States have online access to police information in the Vehicle Register on, for example. ownership so as to facilitate the handling of cases of road traffic offences. So with the small curiosity at the end in the Ministry of Justice and with the comments I have taken note of in this Chamber, I hope that the proposal will receive good committee consideration in the Parliament's Tax Committee and can be adopted when we get this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025114546	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025114559	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025114616	Thank you. The draft law here contains some changes to the researcher tax scheme, some changes to the resumption of tax reduction decisions, tax exemption for compensation for thalidomide victims and a minor clarification in relation to the deduction of gifts and current benefits for non-profit-making and non-profit-making purposes by borderwalkers. So again we have such a bill with quite a lot of different thematics. I would like to say something about those I find very positive and which are also some of the reasons why we support the draft law. I want to start with this question of compensation for thalidomide victims. It has been decided, in relation to the health rate pool, to introduce a compensation for living thalidomide victims for pain and pain, i.e. the fact that women were treated with this product and whose children were harmed by it. A decision was therefore taken to compensate, but only not that it was also tax-free. In other words, there was simply a tax obligation on that compensation, and we will get this cleared up with the bill here, so that we do not have to pay tax on the compensation for pain and pain that the state quite rightly gives to these thalidomide victims. The question of reopening decisions on tax reductions: it is about to be a few years ago, but it is important, and I myself have a great personal satisfaction that this bill comes because I have been active in pursuing this case through some rounds, where I have been contacted by citizens locally, who had thus experienced having complied with all the rules that were there, for when one could be entitled to achieve this cut-off. It was about 100,000 kroner. in a family where wages were not very high, so it would really matter. So there was this scheme for a few years that if you were in full employment and you were still in full employment, even if you had the right to take early retirement, you got this tax-free bonus. And then the problem has been that in the systems that had to look for whether one was entitled to it, there were various things that had not been properly taken into account, and people who were actually entitled to receive this tax reduction ended up being rejected. And three months after that rejection, there was nothing to raffle about, so the state was allowed to completely reject it. There will therefore now be a new opening until 31 March 2019 to review its case. I think that is very positive and I would like to sign up to the tax minister for it to end up coming as part of this bill. I would like us to consider in committee whether the deadline is a little too short, whether it can be a little longer and, at the same time, whether the obligation to provide information on the possibility of reopening these cases that ATP is being given is sufficiently extensive, i.e. on the media of the Elder case and the tax department's own website, etc. is sufficient for them to be captured and given the message that now there is therefore an opportunity to re-examine their case. But hopefully that is something we can discuss in committee. It is not something that will make it much more expensive, but which will hopefully ensure that more people experience the justice that they actually get the bonus that the then VK government put people in view. I shall not add much to the other elements. I briefly mentioned what this is about, and we can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025114951	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025115001	Thank you for the floor. L 30, as the draft law states, has a slightly different element, the first of which is a debureaucratisation of the researcher tax scheme, which in principle is some changes compared to how we get foreign labour to Denmark. These are, after all, discussions, negotiations which are already taking place between the government and the parties of the Folketing. So I actually think it is a little strange that, while we are debating the issue of foreign labour, there is a draft law in the middle of it all, which then deals with foreign labour. That is why I call for these things to be brought in as a natural part of the discussions which are taking place next to the draft law. Today, the rules are such that they are taxed at 27 per cent in relation to key employees. in Denmark for up to 7 years in total duration. Tax liability occurs at the beginning of the employment relationship; what is called the requirement of contemporaryity. They must then meet three requirements. They must not have been taxable within the last 10 years, they must not have been part of the management of the company in which they are to be employed within the last 5 years, and then they must be able to earn a monthly salary of 65,100 DKK. Some of these parameters are then changed or made more flexible, you might say. That is the argument used by the government. Among other things: is proposed here the contemporaneous requirement changed. The argument is that it should not be the case that you cannot get under the research tax scheme in Denmark if you are employed in a foreign department of a Danish company. In other words, the argument is that it should not be the structure of the company that excludes it, and I really think that sounds like a rather sober argument, so that it is not, of course, what should be able to keep people away from it. But on the other hand, we also have the natural concern that if you end up here, it doesn't mean that if you're a big global company, then you can move an employee inside your departments to low taxation in several different countries? So, a big company can say: then they get a few years in Denmark on low tax, and within the same company we move them to England to low tax, and then they can come to the USA to low tax and then back to Denmark to low tax. And then they can sit and circulate them around to low taxes all over the world. So we think there is a need for some discussion of this, either during the examination of the bill, or also, as I also appeal to, perhaps during the discussions on foreign labour, that is, how to secure it. Because we are in favour of the fact that it is not intended to be the structure of the company which excludes one being able to be on a researcher's tax scheme. But we have a natural concern that we will then have some kind of carousel, where we can then run around among the company's international departments and thus avoid cheap taxes in all countries. We do not think this is appropriate either, so some clarification is needed. Then there is another part of the proposal, and it is about changing the documentation of the employment relationship. Today, it is the case that there must be a contract of employment which is then not necessary in the future. And that must then be assessed on the basis of other criteria according to the bill. But I do not see from the draft law what other criteria it is that you think should be judged by. And we might also need to know that, either in committee or in the negotiations that are taking place, so what are the criteria that should then be assessed? For we in the Danish People's Party think that a contract of employment is a very good tool. It is, of course, both for the authorities, but more so for the employees, because there you get your rights set up: well, what are the terms of employment you have? What is the salary, what are some holiday rights, what are the conditions for maternity? Or other things you can write. Well, there are a lot of things; there may be bonus schemes. And it is quite a good protection for the employees that you have in a contract of employment. However, we cannot see from this how to guarantee the rights of citizens, so we would also like some clarification of that in the further work. Then it is also changed in relation to these key employees that they can remain in the post-maternity scheme because it is naturally difficult, if you are on maternity leave for a period, to maintain the wage requirement. And that seems to us to be quite sensible to change, that is, because one is in the happy fact that one has a child, then one is suddenly excluded from being able to continue on the scheme. So that seems to us to be a good and sensible change. I also think it is reasonable that there is the change that, in the last 10 years, if you are not allowed to have a taxable income in Denmark as far back as the first few years may have received some subsequent bonus that has been paid, then that should not exclude you from getting back on the scheme. We are in favour of this as well. It's fine. A quite different subject in the draft law is, of course, what Mr. Jesper Petersen has also explained finely. And that is the tax exemption for compensation for thalidomide victims, which we in the Danish Parliament would like to try to make a payment. And we think it is quite appropriate to ensure that it is tax-free. So, of course, we fully support that. Finally, a change which is also important is about this resumption of decisions on tax reductions to seniors. I have also been asked a great deal about where people have been unduly caught. There may be some things that have been reported incorrectly, for example. of a company, unfortunately yes. However, if the three-month deadline has passed, it cannot be corrected. And it's not very lucky if you meet all other requirements and you sit out as a Dane and actually have the right to this DKK 100,000. So it is only quite reasonable that we should change it so that those three months do not determine whether we can get the tax reduction to which we are entitled. So, of course, we fully support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025115517	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025115528	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said, this draft law contains three parts: firstly, a tax exemption for compensation for thalidomide victims. And you can hardly be against that. It is a pity that they have to pay tax on the allowances we have been awarded to them. And that's because we've been listening to what kind of problems people are experiencing out there. And we take that seriously, and then we try to do something about what we experience as a problem. So that's one way to try to take it seriously. It is also with the last part of the proposal that minor adjustments to the research tax scheme have proved to be very inflexible. It's not a big showdown we're taking with the science tax scheme here. These are minor adjustments simply because they are too complicated and inflexible. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025115633	Thank you. And then it's sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025115642	This bill is, of course, a slightly mixed proposal, and we can actually support most of it. We support the resumption of decisions on tax reductions for seniors. In fact, it is a little over 10 years ago that we were actually against the scheme itself, but this is after all about people having to be treated properly according to the rules in force, so that part of the bill we support. If people have lost their right to strike due to errors in, for example, Reported working hours, people need to be allowed to resume their case. Of course, we also support the tax exemption for thalidomide victims. We are not quite sure what it has to do with the social card on the basis of the proposed bill, and we will just try to clarify that in the legislative process. But, of course, we support the approach to tax freedom in this area. Then we do not see a problem either in the fact that cross-border residents are deducted from their payments to non-profit institutions. We are very much in favour of this. And then there is the last element that we cannot support, and that is the element that deals with the research tax scheme. This is an arrangement that we, the Enhedslisten, have always opposed. It is a tax reduction for highly paid specialists and sports stars. And it is clear from the draft law that this scheme must now be easier to use, it must be more flexible to use the scheme. But it simply cannot be right to grant tax relief in this way to people who already have a very high salary. And you must also just say: if companies want specialists for Denmark, they should not have a subsidy so that they can pay lower wages to people coming from abroad. The people who come from abroad and work here should be welcome, but they must pay the same tax as everyone else. And if the companies then want them, they just have to pay the wages they need to pay. So, the researcher's tax scheme, which was originally intended for researchers very narrowly, has gradually become broader, and now it is sports stars and all sorts of people who use it. It has become such a slightly absurd cat worm for a lower tax burden. And as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also mentioned: what is the possibility that we can circulate around and use this kind of tax scheme in different countries? It's a scheme that's screwed up wrong, and we'd like this part of the bill to be separated. Just in this context, Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti may have an interest in Dansk Folkeparti wanting it to be negotiated in a different room from here in this Parliament Hall. We really do not want it to be adopted at all. In any case, the conclusion may be that it should be taken out in a separate legislative proposal. However, as the draft law is before us and has now been put together, we cannot, overall, support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025115938	I would like to thank the rapporteur for interrupting the sitting. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13:00, and the first rapporteur is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130013	The sitting is resumed. Before we continue the debate on paragraph 6, in the middle of the rapporteur's report, there is just a notification that I have to read out, because it was not ready at 1 p.m. 10.00 this morning. Minister for the Environment and Food (Jakob Ellemann-Jensen): Bill No. L 82 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130051	Then we are ready to continue the rapporteur's line. And I give the floor to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, who is not Joachim B. Olsen today, but May-Britt Kattrup, which is right on the board, because I just checked it out. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130122	Thank you. The proposal is intended to debureaucratise the researcher tax scheme so that a lot of formalities do not stand in the way of using the scheme. As this is not a major enlargement, it is not considered to require large amounts of revenue. The aim is merely that there should be less bureaucracy and trouble. In addition, the opposition deadline will be changed in relation to the senior rejection scheme. There are a number of seniors who have not had a correct estimate of their employment rate and have only had 3 months to object. These seniors naturally believe that it is unreasonable that they should be placed at a disadvantage. The Liberal Alliance considers both to be common sense and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130208	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mr Beazley. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130215	Thank you. In the alternative, we are in favour of the bill. There are two elements that I should just like to look at a little more closely, and then there are a few elements about social free cards and the deduction of borderers, which are primarily technical in nature, and therefore there has been no consultation, but since we have always been gifted with hearing answers, I just need to be able to see completely how it fits into the overall picture. But it shouldn't be able to shake anything. Then there is the research tax scheme, and there we have always said that the more precisely we can do it in relation to precisely supporting that we can get qualified labour for Denmark, the better it is. It has sometimes been broad, but we also support this part, as it improves the scheme in every way. Whether or not we still think the system is too broad and could be more concrete in its entirety is another debate. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130303	Thank you. There are no brief comments either. Apparently, things are going pretty fast today. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber right now is Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130314	Thank you very much. The bill here is among other things. an adjustment of the researcher tax scheme. Denmark needs foreign experts and talents. They contribute to the development and growth of Danish companies and contribute to the Treasury and thus also to the Danish welfare state. Foreigners working in Denmark on the research tax scheme hold some key positions in Danish companies. Thus they also help create and secure Danish jobs. The challenge for Danish society is not whether these key people go back to their home country when they no longer have a job, the challenge is actually more to maintain them in Denmark. In connection with the business and entrepreneurial package, we agreed that we should extend the research tax scheme so that these key employees can stay longer in Denmark and in Danish companies. This is a very good move. The legislative proposal we are discussing now also offers some concrete suggestions on how to make the system more flexible so that it is made less bureaucratic, and that, of course, is something that we Conservatives support. In addition, the draft law provides an opportunity for seniors who did not have time to complain about, for example: Wrong information on the level of employment is now being given a new right of appeal. There have been a number of cases in which some have felt cheated on tax reductions, although the error, for example, has been made. was with the employer. Of course, we think it makes very good sense for these citizens to have another opportunity to complain about those mistakes. Of course, we support the overall draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130459	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we have one more rapporteur present in the Chamber, and I would like to go backwards in the order and welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130512	Thank you. I can repeat myself from the bill we had before this, and commend the government and the tax minister for having found a lot of minor changes to different tax laws which mean a great deal to the citizens who suffer from some inappropriateness. I am not going to stand here and examine all the individual proposals, because some of my colleagues have done so before me, but we in the Radical Left can support all the proposals. There is one thing I would just like to say on the road, and it is here that I think they are called thalidomide victims, some people whose mothers were given a remedy many years ago, who then gave them some malformations. They now receive tax exemption from the compensations they receive. We are very pleased about this in the Radical Left. It's part of the bet pool. One can only wonder why it has been so long before some compensation has been made for these people, because it was a means approved by the authorities. It is a really unhappy story and we are glad that with this proposal we can give tax exemption to the compensations they receive. As I said, we can support the bill and all these individual initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130632	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker I see in the Chamber is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025130644	After all, the debate was divided over the lunch break. However, if I am going to make a few comments on the proposal, I would say, as several rapporteurs have also said, that we are debureaucraticising and changing a little in the research tax scheme, so complicated rules do not unnecessarily restrict companies' ability to recruit skilled workers abroad. Those are some small changes. They have little revenue implications. However, these are some adjustments to requirements and the definition of rules which have made it difficult in practice to apply the system. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær raises the question why this is not part of the government's proposal for international recruitment. That's what you can choose to do. If the Danish People's Party so wishes, the changes can also be included there. When the government has not proposed it, but put it in the Chamber today, it is because it is some small changes that we have assessed there is not what to say much politics in, but more is a question of getting common sense into the rules we have. I'd like to invite Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær to put in writing some of the questions raised in the rapporteur's speech. Then we can figure it out. I agree that when you read the bill, it can be difficult to understand what is being made about here. However, in my best opinion, these are sensible minor changes which debureaucraticise an arrangement that we politically agree should be there and not an extension of it. It is also reflected in the fact that there is no significant revenue. But let us ask the question, then you can take a position on an enlightened basis, and if the Danish People's Party or other parties with which the government negotiates international recruitment want it to be included there, then the government does not see any problems in it. But I am of the opinion that these are some minor adjustments in which there is little policy. But, of course, it is always a political choice whether or not there is. But let us take it in committee. I would also like to make a few comments on the part of the draft law which deals with seniors who have made an extra effort on the labour market, but have lost a tax reduction because they have only had a short time to object to the calculation of their level of employment. The focus here is on relaxing a formal requirement. In fact, the proposal merely provides for the three-month period for the withdrawal of the opposition period for a limited period. The requirement for full-time employment and the other requirements are not changed. The proposal is intended to provide citizens who have not been able to complain about, for example. wrong information, a second chance to correct the calculation of their level of employment. After all, it may seem very violent for the government to put forward a legislative proposal that reopens the possibility of having senior defeats because there are a few citizens who are in a mess. However, it is my view, as the Minister for Taxation and also the Minister for Employment, that this is not fair, and there are a number of politicians from both the Danish People's Party, I think, and the Social Democrats, who have been asking tax ministers and employment ministers for a long time, whether this was right now. There, the Minister for Employment and I have decided that we will find funding to allow for a resumption. Because we consider it unreasonable and not legal certainty that citizens, because of a short period of objection, i.e. a short formal period, may lose their senior position as a result of the mistakes of others, thus the situation in which an employer has reported incorrect information about how many hours you have worked. After all, the citizen and the senior can do nothing about that, and then it is the mistakes of others and some formalistic, rigid demands that are responsible for not having a share in the senior defeat scheme. In short, that is not fair. And even if it is expensive and difficult, we have decided that we want to open up this opportunity, and I am glad that there is broad support for that part of the legislative proposal too. I believe that these are the comments I shall make on the proposal, and then I shall look forward to the committee reading and hopefully the broad adoption of this proposal at third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025131112	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025131117	It is just that I said it also in my rapporteur's speech a receipt that the tax minister provided on what he said, when we, I think it was 11⁄2 years ago, had for the first time had such a Wednesday hour session here, where I had thus received some of these requests from people who really did not think it was reasonable that an advantage had been put forward for the DKK 100,000. and then because of some technicalities did not get them. There are also some people who have been very authoritative and have thought that the systems were running as they should, and they had done exactly what it said. So I think it's fine or it's not just fine, it's really good and only fair that there's going to be this extended opportunity. Perhaps the Minister can say a little about why this is the date that has been chosen as a new deadline and how we point out that the possibility now exists for that matter to be reopened. What is it that makes it clear that the channels of the Elders are being used and are also ATP's own channels being used? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025131220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025131220-2	Yes, and Jesper Petersen also asked that in his rapporteur's speech, and I am sorry that I did not have to deal with it in my ministerial reply, but I will then have the opportunity to do so now. In other words, the deadline has been chosen because it is a reasonable deadline that has been set. But could of course choose to make it shorter or choose to make it longer, but it is my view that those who are in a jam here know that they are in a jam, and I think they are also following the legislative process. And I and the Minister for Employment will also respond to the citizens' requests that we have received and announce when the Parliament has adopted the bill so that people will be aware of it by that route. Then we have also had the discussion about advertising, and when we put up for advertising at the Elders Case, it is because there are a great many Danes who are members of the Elders Case, and those who could be affected in this area are enough members there. And then it is also a question of not giving the wrong impression. In other words, it is an attractive arrangement, and it has now expired, and we do not allow for the resumption of all those who did not fulfil the requirement of full-time employment, but only those who have come into contact as a result of the mistakes of others. So it's a balance, so if we advertise a lot, a lot of people think that they can suddenly get senior hits, and that's why we've tried to balance it as we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025131335	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025131359	I've just got a service announcement, 'cause it's going incredibly fast today. I can see that there are some rapporteurs who are not present in the Chamber right now, so I will be reasonably pragmatic with the order, but will preferably keep the order. So if someone is sitting in the offices now listening, it is a very good idea to send his rapporteur down, because now there are four cases in the justice area. So we're going to start with paragraph 7, and that's the first reading of L 18. The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025131451	Thank you. The draft law here stems from a series of really nasty cases of defence lawyers who in no way meet the particular responsibilities that go with the role. We have seen examples of how merchandise has been distributed to inmates in the country's prisons, and unfortunately we have also seen examples that at least it is possible to double invoicing on the account of the state, that is to say, to be paid for being involved in a trial and at the same time billing for other cases. It has certainly been possible. In the Social Democratic Party we are in favour of the proposal here. In fact, we are very pleased that the proposal has been put forward and we see it as a very necessary initiative in terms of trusting in our legal society, but, of course, also taking care of the tax crowns that we in this House are responsible for managing. It's harmless when defense attorneys raise large sums of money in defense counsellors from the public sector while giving gifts and distributing advertising to clients and clients' friends and family. That is what is being put an end to with the proposal here. At the same time, however, the history of the distribution of gifts and advertising has made clear the need for more systematic and effective supervision of lawyers, and the draft law is also being tightened up here. The law will make it easier for the Lawyers' Council, which, as you know, oversees the country's lawyers, to obtain and receive information from public authorities, and in this way the Lawyers' Council can therefore focus more on the stumbled vessels. At the same time, we are introducing rules on how supervision is to be carried out, just as in the future the Lawyers' Council will have to submit an annual report to the Ministry of Justice on the supervision carried out, simply to ensure that it takes place and that it is finely masked enough. Another important step is that, in the future, the Lawyer's Office will have the possibility of refusing a lawyer's appointment conditionally if the lawyer concerned has committed serious violations, thus sending out a signal that there must be good behaviour in this area. These are very important initiatives and we will be following them closely, because it is clear that if it is not fine-meshed enough, then we will have to look at other methods. But we think these are really important initiatives. However, it has been a strong wish from our side that, when we look at lawyers, we address the so-called Schlüter case, in which three lawyers cheated on clients' money for no less than a three-digit million dollars through a company that was set up alongside their legal profession and where there was a high level of trust. This shows, of course, that there is a problem with lawyers' side-employment, and that is why we think that part should be included, and I have also understood that in the Minister of Justice there is sensitivity to this when we are now looking at the roles and powers of lawyers. That is why, of course, we will also follow up on the amendments which hopefully come to the proposal here, where we will just get this last part, in other words what lawyers have to do in addition to the initial legal work. In those words, we support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025131850	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025131903	Thank you. After all, the proposal for a law here stems from the fact that we have seen some extremely sad cases where it has rightly been possible to question the defence lawyers and their work. This has led to a long process, and this results in the legislative proposal put forward by the Minister for Justice here. I would like to start by saying that the Danish People's Party is incredibly positive about the proposal and the parts that lie in it. After all, the individual parts come from the audit company EY's study of the area, and the proposal lays down a ban on lawyers distributing gifts to clients or clients' closest associates, and we think that is a very sensible thing to do. At least one of the cases we've seen in the past in this area has shown that there's been a need to tighten up this whole thing. In addition, the proposal contains a ban on clothing and advertising articles. In any case, it is very good to be clear, and it is also very good that the Minister for Justice addresses it in the proposal here. It also strengthens the supervisory capacity of the Lawyers' Council; it does so on a risk-based basis, and we also think that this is generally sensible. Annual reporting to the Ministry of Justice in this area will be carried out, and it will then be possible for the authorities, by improving the exchange of information, to provide more information for this important control. As important as this, the Council of Lawyers will in future have the opportunity to deprive a lawyer of their appointment, and that is, after all, a much greater consequence than what is possible today, which means that you can be fined if you have not complied with what you have to do. So it is a sensible proposal, and we would like to sign for it, so we therefore support it. I have the same thoughts on the specific issue raised by the Socialist rapporteur in his rapporteur's speech, and I hope, of course, that the Minister for Justice will address this when he concludes this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025132111	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025132120	Thank you. Lawyers have a special role in Danish society. Lawyers can appear in court for other people, thus having a meeting monopoly, and lawyers can keep other people's money in client accounts, for example in real estate transactions, where the lawyer is also the one who ensures that the buyer's money, the buyer's payout, is not released until he is sure he will get an unquoted deed. The lawyer is also the one who ends the life of the client when the estate bill is to be made. There are therefore a number of situations in which lawyers have a special position to deal with just to mention some of the tasks and that also means that people should have confidence in lawyers. This excellent proposal helps to create more confidence in the lawyers. There will be even more thorough supervision than we have today, but there will also be risk-based supervision. It is probably no secret, if you look through 6,500 lawyers' relationships in Denmark, that it is probably a small crowd that stands out in terms of violation of client account rules and conditions that are contrary to good legal practice, etc. and so on, and that probably means that you can relax control a little in some places and tighten it up elsewhere. And that is what is being proposed here. It is a sensible use of the system. The fine is increased so that the Lawyer's Board can now impose fines of up to DKK 600,000. It's the same level the accountants have to put up with. So why, by the way, should there be a difference there? Now there will be the possibility of issuing a yellow card, that is to say if you do it again, then you will lose your appointment, and that is only natural and can hopefully cause some to correct the narrow path of virtue in this area. And there's not just a yellow card. There is already an opportunity today to disclaim the decree definitively. We know that, but as a new thing, if you go to the courts with a disclaimer, the matter will not have suspensory effect on the courts. That's the new one. That is not the case today, and we have seen terrible examples of some lawyers dragging it into the system and betting that the disqualification of the installment today has suspensory effect. So from now on, it's gonna leave unless the court decides otherwise. So it's also slipping away from the case. The last element here is the gift environment. I have to say that there is no gift environment between defense attorneys and prisoners. There is a gift environment between me and my grandson, for example, but not between me and someone I represent in a prison. We don't have anything to do with giving each other presents. I'm sorry, I'm just gonna tell you straight. Because it's gonna be a fight over who can give the best possible merchandise, and it's not gonna work, especially in a situation where the person who really pays the fee to this appointed lawyer is the state. Then the situation should not be such that there is like competition over who can give the prisoner the greatest possible gifts and thus pretending the person as a client. We see horrible examples of client shifts that at least have no factual reasons. But we can come back to that at a later stage. The Left can support the proposal in any respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025132457	Thank you to the rapporteur and we will continue in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025132503	Thank you. I can start by revealing that Enhedslisten can also support this bill, which previous rapporteurs have explained very well about what is about. However, I would like to add a few words to the proposal. First of all, we very much agree that it is good that there should be a ban on lawyers being able to give gifts or other items of advertising to inmates and their relatives, because we think it is important that there is no dependence between certain inmates and certain defence lawyers. So we think that makes sense. Inmates in prison are in a very vulnerable position where it can be difficult to assess who will be the best defense attorney, and here it is very important and crucial that the inmates are not affected by gifts. As a result, inmates must not carry advertisements for defence lawyers, and we in the Enhedslisten can also support that. We do not think, however, in the Enhedslisten, that more restrictions should be imposed on what may be possessed as an inmate, but we think it is very appropriate for the Minister of Justice to be allowed to make these restrictions for the inmates as long as it just stops here. Finally, I would like to add that in the Enhedslisten we share the concerns of the Consumer Council Think about the consequences of introducing a fee to lodge a complaint with the Lawyers' Board, and we intend to follow that development very closely. But with these comments, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025132645	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025132653	Thank you very much. The draft law that we are discussing here translates a large part of the initiatives in the government's proposal for increased control and enhanced supervision of lawyers, which was presented earlier this year. In particular, it lays down: to impose a ban on defence lawyers having to hand out gifts and merchandise to their clients in criminal proceedings. As the rapporteur of the Left has said, lawyers have a very special, central role in our community of law, and with that they also have special rights and special duties, and they also have a very special responsibility. In the Liberal Alliance, therefore, it makes sense for us to put an end to the practice that we have witnessed, where defence lawyers can advertise in the institutions of criminal justice by handing out hooded sweaters with advertising logos and so on. to their clients. It is absolutely essential that we have confidence in lawyers and confidence in their work. In the Liberal Alliance, we also welcome the fact that, with this, we are strengthening the sanctions available to the Lawyers' Board and making the sanctions more effective by allowing a lawyer to be denied his appointment if the lawyer has committed serious violations of his duties as a lawyer. That is quite reasonable, and on that basis we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025132819	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025132828	Thank you. Bill L 18 here today on amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Enforcement of Punishment, etc. The fact is that there are several elements from the government's proposal for increased control and enhanced supervision of lawyers, whose aim is to strengthen the regulation of the conduct of lawyers and their supervision. An essential element of this bill is a ban on defence lawyers, which ensures that defence lawyers do not distribute gifts or sponsorships to their clients in criminal proceedings or to their relatives. During the spring, there have been a number of media cases about the distribution of free gifts and sponsorship by well-known defence lawyers to their clients, i.e. the inmates in the country's prisons that they represent. Another element of the bill is the strengthening of the supervision of lawyers by the Lawyers' Council. The Lawyers' Council is the board of the Lawyers' Association, of which all lawyers are automatically members. The Council's supervision of lawyers and lawyers will in future be more risk-based than at present. The Council will have to classify lawyers according to the degree of risk of non-compliance with the duties of lawyer and adjust the frequency of supervision accordingly. A third initiative, which I would like to highlight here, is that the Council of Lawyers should be able to obtain or receive information from public authorities and that public authorities should be obliged to inform the Council in certain situations. That part of the bill has among other things: to improve the effectiveness of sanctions imposed by the Lawyer's Board of Appeal. It is important to say that the Lawyers' Board is an independent board dealing with complaints about lawyers' behaviour and fees. We think it is very positive that this draft law will allow the country's lawyers to be penalised if they do not comply with good practice and morale. That is why we welcome this bill. We support it, and I should like to greet the Radicals and say that they do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025133027	Thank you. The next speaker will then be the rapporteur for the SF, who has now spoken for the Radical Left. It's sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025133041	Clearly, some lawyers find it difficult to find a balance. I am surprised that there are any lawyers who are willing to undermine trust in this way, not only to lawyers in general, but to the judicial system. Lawyers are, after all, a crucial wheel in the machinery of the rule of law, and we must take good care of that. We must help the industry not to end up in almost carnival conditions. We think it is a good idea to give the Lawyers' Council a greater role in keeping self-righteous justice among lawyers. The SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025133117	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025133126	I could have said that we support it and go back down. It's gonna be even faster. But I'd like to go into more detail. In Denmark we are very fortunate, understood in the sense that we can generally rely on people with special professions, such as lawyers, to carry out their work with integrity and respect for their profession. We have a low level of corruption and a high level of confidence, and that is how it must remain. Unfortunately, last year we heard reports of the use of gifts by some defense attorneys in prisons. It created doubts about the supervision of defence lawyers and whether supervision has been fine enough. The Minister of Justice launched an external investigation into existing supervision and a number of recommendations from the courts and the Lawyers' Council. On the basis of these conclusions, the Minister presented a proposal to strengthen the supervision of lawyers. The game contains a number of elements. It is made clear what defence lawyers are not allowed to do in relation to their current clients. Defense attorneys are forbidden to give gifts to their clients. Furthermore, defence lawyers should no longer be advertised in prisons. In addition, the Council's supervision of defence lawyers is strengthened and more stringent requirements are imposed on supervision. The Lawyers' Council is also given tougher sanctions. I am sure that the Minister for Justice will elaborate even further on this, but we believe that this bill and the other measures taken by the Minister will be a significant strengthening of the supervision of defence lawyers. Because, in general, we believe that we must continue to trust lawyers and defence lawyers. We have that in general and mostly, but sometimes the cases we have heard about have arisen in the past. The measure in the bill here will mean that confidence will be assured for the future. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025133353	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, but the day is marked by brief speakers, so we are quick to move forward with the Minister. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025133402	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteurs for a very positive attitude and for the speeches we have heard here today. I'm really glad that it looks like we're bringing the Folketing together for this legislation. The aim, as several speakers have said, is to strengthen the regulation of the conduct of lawyers and their supervision. This translates a large part of the initiatives into the action of July this year called "Increased control and strengthened supervision of lawyers." The game originally originated from a number of serious stories in the media in the spring of 2017 about e.g.: the distribution of gifts and merchandise by certain defence lawyers to their inmates' clients and clients' relatives. The stories raised doubts as to whether the existing regulation of the conduct of lawyers and their supervision is sufficiently clear and robust to ensure that lawyers meet the specific responsibilities associated with their duties. It is of great importance to trust in our legal system that we can count on lawyers to comply with the rules of the game that apply to them. That's why I announced a ban on defense attorneys giving gifts to their clients and clients' relatives. I also launched an internal investigation to get an overview of the problems in this area. The study concluded, inter alia, that the Lawyers' Council's supervisory tools are insufficient in several respects and that the Council's supervision can be strengthened by making it more structured and by making greater demands on the documentation for supervision. Based on e.g. the recommendations from the study and a large number of concrete proposals received from the courts and the Council of Lawyers I presented in July this year the overall proposal which I mentioned at the outset. The draft law, which is being dealt with first today, translates the initiatives into action that require legislation. The first element of the bill, which I would like to highlight, is the proposal to completely prohibit defence lawyers from handing out gifts to their clients in criminal proceedings or to clients' closeness. In addition to the ban on gifts, it is proposed to create a basis for banning clothes and other items that advertise defence lawyers in criminal services institutions. Gift and advertising bans are broadly defined in the draft law, and this is because we want a clear legal position in this area. This practice of handing out gifts and promotional items must simply stop. But clear rules for the operation of lawyers don't do it alone. We also need to ensure that compliance is monitored effectively. This is why the draft law sets out a number of detailed requirements for the supervision of the Lawyer's Board to ensure that it is systematic and effective. Among other things, it is proposed that supervision should be more risk-based so that lawyers who are considered to pose a greater threat are more frequently subject to supervision. It is also proposed that the Lawyers' Council should draw up an annual supervisory plan and that the Council should report annually on the supervision carried out. It goes without saying that effective supervision of lawyers requires supervision to have access to the relevant information and, therefore, it is proposed to provide an explicit legal basis for the Lawyer's Board to require a lawyer to provide all information necessary for the supervision of the Council. In addition, it is proposed that the Lawyers' Council be given a number of new opportunities to receive information for the purposes of supervision by public authorities. And it is proposed to set up a whistleblower scheme at the council so that everyone can anonymously send information to the council about the lawyers. The information available to the Lawyer's Board with the new tools shall include: help ensure that supervision can move out quickly whenever necessary. The Council must also use this information to classify lawyers at risk. With the new legal supervision framework proposed by the proposal, I am convinced that we will come a long way in getting more effective supervision that can detect and deal with the problem cases at an earlier stage than today. This also applies in cases such as the so-called Johan Schlüter case, which has also been mentioned by the rapporteurs here today. Fortunately, the Schlüter case is an extraordinary case. After all, it is not every day that lawyers are involved in constructions of this kind, which also involve businesses outside the law firm. Then, of course, I must say that the case is still pending, because two of the former lawyers convicted in the city court have appealed to the Court of Justice. For the third lawyer, the city court's verdict is final. But even if this is an extraordinary case, it does not mean that we should not learn from it. We can never completely avoid criminal acts being committed in Denmark. Unfortunately, this also applies to lawyers. But we must do what we can to make it as difficult as possible. I believe that the particular lesson that can be drawn from the Schlüter case is that there must be transparency about it when a lawyer operates outside his profession. That is why I would like to make an amendment to the draft law here. I would suggest that lawyers be obliged to ensure that their customers are clearly informed that they are dealing with a non-lawyer company and are therefore not covered by the legal framework applicable to lawyers. In addition, I would suggest that a ban be introduced into the Code of Procedure against the participation of a lawyer in acts or omissions which impede the supervision of the Council of Lawyers or the main purpose of which is to evade supervision. It should not be the case that a lawyer can move his business out of the law firm in order to evade the supervision of the Lawyer's Board. In addition, I would suggest that in future, in the context of the annual Client Account Statement submitted to the Lawyer's Board, a lawyer should indicate if the Lawyer owns a business other than a lawyer. This should strengthen the basis for the Lawyer's Council's oversight of compliance with the rules. We have also looked at ways of strengthening the sanctions available to the Lawyers' Board. The name gets with the bill here, among other things. the possibility, in addition to a fine, of dismissing a lawyer's appointment if the lawyer has committed serious or more frequent repeated violations of his duties. It is also proposed to allow it to withdraw a lawyer's appointment temporarily during the proceedings in order to avert an imminent danger. In particularly serious cases, it is also suggested that the maximum fine should be doubled to DKK 600,000. Overall, it is my view that adopting the legislative proposal with the amendment that I am going to table will make a significant contribution to ensuring that lawyers live up to the confidence and responsibility of their profession. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025134105	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025134122	The debate is open. The first speaker is rapporteur Mrs Trine Bramsen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025134145	Thank you. The bill is specifically about strengthening the security of the country's prisons and detention houses by extending the framework for the security and intelligence work of the criminal services. And that is something that we in the Social Democratic Party can only agree with. The bill is part of the implementation of the multi-year agreement for the criminal welfare economy 2018-2021, which we, together with the government and Dansk Folkeparti, signed back in November and which a number of other parties have subsequently joined. For social democracy, it is particularly important for security to be increased, not least for the sake of our prison officers. And these are very violent things that we are experiencing right now in our prisons. We see weekly assaults on prison officers; we also see some more macabre assaults than we have seen in the past, and a lack of respect for prison officers who basically just go to work to ensure that we can have a safe society. And that's why it's pretty important that we address this. The bill tightens up and extends, among other things. in writing. - (FR) The rules on fingerprints of inmates, and it provides extended access to research into electronics held illegally by inmates, and we gain increased control over the communication with the outside world of the convicted and radicalised inmates. These are fine proposals which we in the Socialist Group support. However, we doubt that this is sufficient to increase safety. For example, we saw a terrorist suspect in Vestre Prison recently swapped identity with a visitor and ran away. This shows that there are therefore some gaps in the system and that it is necessary to tighten up the system thoroughly. And that is why we need to strengthen security further. It is about both personnel, training and processes, both with the inmates, but also with the visitors. It is quite absurd that a visitor can come in and change clothes and then sit in there, while an inmate can traverse into the open as if nothing had happened. So we have to make sure that something like this doesn't happen again. But the legislative proposals that lie here are supported and supported by us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025134421	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025134435	Thank you. When making political agreements, you are also obliged to comply with them afterwards. Last year we made an agreement with the government and the Social Democratic Party, a new multi-annual agreement on criminal justice, and I think, in fact, in all modesty, that the conciliation parties can applaud themselves, because it was actually a very sensible agreement that was reached at the time. A few of the elements contained in the draft law here are, after all, a follow-up to the agreement we reached. Criminal services are given much better opportunities to collect, store, use and share information about prisoners with other authorities. We see this as a very sensible step, because in many cases criminal services can have information about prisoners who may have an interest in other public authorities in terms of security, but also because it provides an extremely good knowledge of the people involved. Therefore, it is of course crucial that you can have this information, that you can use it and that you get the most out of it. So we definitely support that part. It is also in the agreement that the police officers, the prison officers, will take over the tasks of the police involved in transport in the future. We think this is very sensible, and we believe that it is a good task to move to the criminal services, where there is a great deal of experience in dealing with the inmates. So, of course, we can fully support that too. And, of course, we can also support the fact that the prison officers and the transport officers must have exactly the same powers as our police officers today. We support that too. Then there is the whole question of punishment cells. I have to say that we simply need further clarification in the work of the committee. We need to see how much this is going to ease the regime we have today. There is no doubt that it is very far-reaching if people are sitting in a prison cell for up to 4 weeks, but we simply need to see what consequences it might have if we adopt this milder model. But we will follow this up at a later stage in the work of the committee. Then there's the part that has to do with photos and fingerprints of remands. We just had a case from Vestre Prison, where a person who was absolutely not supposed to have gotten out was still able to get through. It goes without saying that it does not, of course, stand, and that is why it is fine that the government makes a proposal here. One might well tighten it a little bit and say that the people who are going to talk to these people must also have taken a picture and a fingerprint so that one is absolutely sure that one will be able to identify them at a later stage. What that will mean, we must then have deepened in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. But at least here, we think, is an opportunity for one to do it a little bit better and a little bit safer than what we know about. All in all, the proposal is good, and it is initiatives that we support. I do not think this will be the end of the big debate on how to deal with the whole security issue in our prisons and detention houses. So there we have some way to go. I think it is absolutely crucial that we get more prison officers, both to see that you are part of a strong professional community in our institutions, but also so that you can follow it properly on the security front that there are enough people to take care of it. That also opens the way for a discussion. Now, in a very short time, we are officially opening the new temporary political school in West Denmark. I think this opens the way for a discussion on whether you really should not have an educational institution for prison officers in western Denmark. However, this is a discussion that we will have to discuss in conciliation and in the Committee on Legal Affairs at a later stage. I don't think we're gonna finish talking about this question for the time being, anyway. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025134845	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025134855	Thank you. After all, the draft law before us is a draft law which already implements an agreement, a multi-annual agreement for the economy of criminal justice, an agreement which has been widely debated and published so far. I have, of course, heard my two predecessors here in the platform go into such detail about the proposal here, so it will therefore be a brief summary. At any rate, I can say that we in the Left welcome the fact that criminal services are given the opportunity to strengthen intelligence and also to use and share the information they receive, including about visitors. It's important. It is equally important that we strengthen the police as much as possible, and we do so, among other things. By giving the D.C.'s arresting transport, including this one. There must be increased control to cut off the communication of the convicted and radicalised people with the outside world. This applies regardless of whether it is by telephone, writing, meetings or the like. That too has been taken into account. Finally, the latest Olsen gang case, where an inmate was exchanged, has probably made it possible to record fingerprints. It also seems quite natural. The use of punishment cells for minors will be returned to, even from what I heard from the Danish People's Party. Finally, there is a restriction on the usual access to compensation for people who are subjected to various forms of coercive action. You have to put up with that once you've changed residence to a prison cell. So the Left can support the proposal as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025135036	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025135044	Thank you. This bill is part of the implementation of the agreement between the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party on the economy of criminal justice. Other parties have subsequently agreed to this agreement. As you know, we in the Enhedslisten do not have that, and that is why we cannot be expected to take a positive view of the overall legislative proposal. The multi-annual agreement on criminal justice is largely characterised by interventions and restrictions in the inmates' terms of service. This development is not in favour of the inmates' ability to improve constructively on a future life without crime; rehabilitation is usually called it. However, in the Enhedslisten, we also believe that more interventions and restrictions could be detrimental to the security of prisons and to the security of both staff and inmates. The confrontational line of the agreement and the current legislative proposal can only contribute to the cooling of the climate in prisons and to the deterioration of relations between staff and inmates. And good, constructive relations between employees and inmates are at the heart of so-called dynamic security in our prisons. Not least, the prison union has repeatedly highlighted this. The confrontational line is simply in danger of triggering more unrest in prisons, more acts of violence and more threats to staff. So everyday life becomes more insecure for both employees and inmates. That is certainly our concern in the Enhedslisten. These overall views are the main reason why we were unable to agree to the agreement. When it comes to the individual parts of this bill, there are some ambiguities which we hope to be clarified by the Justice Minister's response to the written questions that we are sending over in connection with the bill. However, we welcome the idea of restricting the use of isolation as disciplinary punishment, known as prison cell, against 15-17-year-old inmates, whom we believe should not be in prison at all, but which, for one reason or another, end up in a prison cell. According to the draft law, the penalty for young people must be limited to a maximum of 7 days and the comments assume that the duration of a penalty cell placement in all general cases is limited to 3 days. However, in the case of violence against staff, the young inmates must be able to continue to be punished by up to four weeks' penalty cell. The comments on the draft law refer to the recommendations of inter alia: The Torture Committee of the Council of Europe, which has expressed concern about the use of isolation as disciplinary punishment, particularly in relation to young people under 18 years of age. In the Enhedslisten we find it both surprising and disappointing that the bill only partially meets the recommendations. I would also refer here to some of the consultation answers that have come to the draft law. I have to say that I think it is really a pity that not all the recommendations that are made are being met. In the Enhedslisten we believe in principle that the responsibility for teaching, which this bill also deals with, in prisons, and that applies to both servings and those in custody, should lie with the general school system and thus be subject to the Ministry of Education's area of responsibility similar to that of Norway. Such a solution should be more likely to lead to inmates being offered education at a level that is in line with the level in schools outside prisons, and thus to better rehabilitation, that is to say to get criminals back on track, which must in fact be the purpose of our punishment. In the Enhedslisten, we also find it a little strange that it is now the criminal services that are supposed to be secret services. It's not up to the D.A. to be a secret service. We have the police, we have the PET for that, and they do quite well. This bill will merely place even more tasks on the criminal services, which are very much under pressure in advance. There, in the Enhedslisten, we want criminal justice to spend their time on what they have to do, namely to ensure good rehabilitation, and not to make intelligence inside prisons. So we have both Special Branch and the police for that. In addition, in the Enhedslisten, we generally see this bill as a very major encroachment on the right to both private and family life. With the bill, inmates and their relatives can be monitored to an entirely different degree than they can today, which is also expressed as concern in most of the consultation responses. In other words, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025135540	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025135554	Thank you very much. Last year, the government concluded a multi-year agreement with the Department of Criminal Affairs. The aim of the agreement was to create the framework for a modern and strong criminal justice service and focused on strengthening security in prisons and on fighting the gangs and the many gang members who, fortunately, are now behind bars. With the bill we are discussing, we are implementing a number of initiatives from that agreement. We are introducing, among other things, a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. Increased control of the communication of terrorists and radicalised inmates with the outside world, as well as the possibility of photographing and fingerprinting all prisoners in custody. We are thus providing criminal services with tools that strengthen their work, increase security and ensure that inmates who do not respect the rules of prisons can be dealt with consistently. It is positive, it is good tools, and the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025135701	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Take it easy; things are moving fast today. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025135719	Thank you for the floor. On Bill L 21: These are the more initiatives relating to the area and work of criminal justice. It is an agreement that was originally concluded between the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. We have then joined the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. That is why we also support the proposals that lie here, but I have some specific comments to make on them. We believe that it is sensible and balanced that criminal services should be given the opportunity to photograph and record fingerprints of all prisoners of custody for later identification. The bill here is among other things. As a result of the recent exile from Western Prison, which was mentioned in the media. We also think it is very sensible that the Minister for Justice will restrict the use of criminal cells against minors. Several national and international studies show that special minors and young people are a vulnerable risk group when it comes to the use of isolation as disciplinary punishment. So we just don't think that we have to go quite far enough. And here I would like to mention that the Children's Council, with which we agree here, says that outgoing behaviour among minors should be followed by conflict prevention efforts instead of such a criminal cell, since isolation is merely a punishment and does not prevent new cases of violence. That is why we are so fundamentally opposed to isolating young people, and that is why we want to get rid of the opportunity completely. And we would like to have the opportunity to continue talking to the Minister about this in the conciliation circle. They will then be able to photograph and record fingerprints of all detainees for later identification. It is also possible, without a court order, to familiarize itself with the content of electronic effects that an inmate has in his possession. Transfer of the transport of certain arrests to the criminal services is transferred from the police to the criminal services. We also think that this is very positive, that is to say that criminal services will have the opportunity to do more civic-oriented police tasks. The proposal on the possibility of criminal justice gathering, processing and passing on information about prisoners and persons with whom inmates are in contact to other authorities, as well as the proposal for increased control of the convicted of terrorism or others deemed by the criminal services to be radicalised or extremist, is then a proposal that meets criticism from the Institute of Human Rights and the Council of Attorneys and the National Association of Defence Attorneys. And here there is also a concern from the Red Cross that criminal services will have an opportunity to process information from guests. The Red Cross believes that this will affect the rehabilitation work, and the risk can deter some from being voluntary visiting friends, and the Red Cross believes that this is a great loss. And the Red Cross does not believe that it is necessary for criminal services to process information on the voluntary visiting friends and mentors of the Red Cross to a greater extent than today. And that is why I would really like to suggest to the Minister for Justice that he can just invite the conciliation parties to discuss the elements on which particular attention is focused in these hearings. I should like to welcome Radicals and say that they would also very much like to have the opportunity to discuss the comments I have made here today further in the conciliation circle. And I very much hope the Minister of Justice will just nod to that from the platform. All in all, however, we are in favour of the draft law, and I should also like to welcome the Radicals and say that they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025140120	Thank you for that, too, for speaking on behalf of the Radicals. And the next speaker is then rapporteur for the SF, sir. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025140129	The SF has agreed to the multi-annual agreement on criminal justice, which is why we welcome this bill. Among some of the consultation answers are some things that we think are relevant to get into the work, and we expect them to be part of the committee's work. What we are looking at is three things in particular. One is that the Lawyers' Council points to the need for criminal justice to prove why they are taking specific action, such as: monitoring visits. The second thing is that the Red Cross writes to us that they do not consider it necessary to monitor their volunteers. And I think it might be appropriate to have a discussion on whether such NGOs could be exempted. The third thing we can see is that the Children's Council recommends a monitoring body to ensure respect for human rights. We are also in favour of this. So a general agreement to the draft law, but with the comment that we in the committee work would like to bring these three elements in particular into the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025140232	Thank you. And the last rapporteur in a row is Mr. Naser Khader for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025140241	Thank you. The gang conflict has created great insecurity and has shown how hard-boiled criminals can be in our small country. The Minister of Justice has proposed to introduce a series of initiatives to combat this harsh and violent crime. In concrete terms, this has meant that several of the hard-boiled bandits are in different prisons instead of walking on our streets and alleys. And that is very positive. The government, together with a broad committee of the Danish Parliament's parties, has also made a new agreement for the operation of criminal services in the next few years. The agreement contains a number of elements that we also need to implement by law. This applies in particular to the ability of criminal services to carry out security and intelligence work. When the inmates are so organized, the welfare services must also have the tools to handle it. This applies not only to gang members but also to those who have been radicalised and to those who have become extreme in prisons. Criminal services must have the opportunity to keep an eye on the hardest-boiled criminals and people who could be radicalised. In the prisons, it's the prison officers and the police department that's in charge. That is why they must also have the legal basis to be able to keep an eye on the inmates. It's perfectly natural. In addition, the proposal also contains a number of provisions on the day-to-day work of welfare services, including, for example, the transport of prisoners. Criminal services staff must have the best tools so that they can feel safe and so that they can contribute to the work of preventing radicalisation in prisons. All in all, an excellent legislative proposal, which we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025140437	Thank you. It's still going away fast. There are no brief comments, so we have reached the Minister. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025140444	Thank you, and also thanks to the rapporteurs on this matter for a positive reception of the draft law. The government, as has also been mentioned, has last year concluded a new multi-annual agreement for criminal justice, along with most of the parties of the Folketing. The agreement is intended to provide a framework for a modern and strong criminal justice service which will help Denmark to be a safe and secure society. I welcome the broad support for the implementation of the agreement that we are proposing with this proposal. The proposal focuses on strengthening the safety of employees in the country's prisons and on combating gang crime. In this context, it is intended to strengthen the security and intelligence work of the criminal services in order to improve the ability of the criminal services to continuously assess threats and risks and to transmit information to inter alia: Police. In order to support this work, the draft law establishes an explicit legislative framework for the handling of information about prisoners and persons with whom they are in contact by the criminal services. In recent years, there have been challenges of radicalisation and extremism in the country's prisons. And that is why we are proposing to introduce increased control over the communication of the convicted and radicalised prisoners with the outside world. It will be among other things. the possibility of attending their visits and listening to telephone calls, and this must help to prevent them being maintained in a radicalised or extremist environment. In addition, we propose that the criminal services should have the opportunity without a court order to examine the content of mobile phones and other electronic items which the inmates should not have with them in prison. Similar rules already apply to access by criminal services to letters and other records. We also propose that the Department of Criminal Justice be given the opportunity to photograph and record fingerprints of all prisoners of custody. It is therefore essential that the person concerned can be identified if, for example, there are: is an escape. In addition, the multi-year agreement provides that criminal services are to take over most of the police's tasks with regard to the transport of, inter alia: Arrestants. In this context, we are proposing that, of course, the staff of the criminal services should be given the opportunity to use force against all the groups of people that they will have to transport in the future, so that, for example, they can do so. can prevent an escape. We are also proposing to change the rules on compensation for intervention against employees so that the rules take better account of the reality of prisons. The proposal restricts access to compensation in certain cases to the rules in force. Finally, the proposal contains some initiatives on the conditions for prisoners under the age of 18 in terms of education and the use of criminal cells, which are restricted for this age group. Again: I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the speeches, and I have taken note of the remark made by the Alternative and Alternative on behalf of the Radicals, and a question was also mentioned by the Danish People's Party; it was then about the punishment cells. This can, of course, be done in committee. I think it is very relevant that we should turn this over at the forthcoming conciliation meeting, and the forthcoming conciliation meeting will be here in mid-November. So we have time for that, I think, to have it all turned over there in relation to any doubts that may arise. And I look forward to further discussion here in the Danish Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025140810	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025140825	The debate is open. And the first speaker is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025140843	Social democracy wants a strong society in which the community is the mainstay, and that is why it is important that we take action against parallel societies, which, unfortunately, and I say unfortunately, are a reality around the country. The draft law here contains a number of elements which are steps in the right direction in the fight against parallel societies and which are puzzle pieces in relation to having recourse to parallel societies. We are sending a very clear signal that we do not accept that children and young people are sent on reeducational journeys. I'm afraid it's going on. We will make it possible to include a child's passport if there is a risk that the child is being sent on a re-educational journey, and parents who send their children will be able to be imprisoned for up to four years in future. However, we would like to go further, and that is why we have also asked the government to look at the possibility for parents who send their children on a re-educational journey to have their residence permit withdrawn. We, as a society, have a very special responsibility for vulnerable children and young people, and in order to fulfil that responsibility, information from the municipality and from professionals around the child is absolutely crucial. Unfortunately, however, we are still looking away environments where there is not enough information, and that is why, in May, we concluded an agreement with the government and the Danish People's Party to tighten up the penalties for negligence on the part of public service managers, and that agreement is reflected in this bill. The draft law also contains another important element in the fight against parallel societies, namely the possibility of imposing penalties in specific areas which are extremely affected by crime, and it is therefore a tool to be used in areas where insecurity-building crime is repeatedly seen. For example, it could be a playground where weapons or drugs are traded or in other ways insecure activities, and here we say that in this area where we see problems over and over again, we choose to create a so-called penalty zone. It could also be a square, which has been taken over by gang members, and which therefore makes the residents insecure, making them afraid to pass through this square, go and trade their everyday goods, or where there are shootings that create insecurity. The penal zones can only apply in defined areas and they cannot be made permanent, and I think that is quite central and a very important point. Moreover, this is something we know from road work, where we also have double penalties in some zones, which we say are particularly vulnerable, and it is about speeding up in those areas where road work is involved, and it is simply to protect those who work on these lines. So it is not something unknown in Danish legislation. Moreover, throughout our criminal law system we also have the concept of aggravating circumstances, and aggravating circumstances are something that our courts work with every day. We believe that the initiatives are important; they cannot stand alone, but they are puzzle pieces in order to ensure that you can live and move safely throughout Denmark, i.e. that there are no special zones that are extremely plagued by crime. So this last part should be seen as a tool for the police, which they can use if they consider, on the basis of professional criteria, that it can remedy the problems. In those words, we support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141239	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141245	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I would like to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen whether Mrs Trine Bramsen believes that this will stop crime. Over the last ten years, the penalties for example have been tightened up. gang crime, but it hasn't really worked. At least we still see gangs, at least where I live, at Nørrebro. So I would like to ask Mrs Trine Bramssen if she believes that it will simply stop crime from creating penal zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141317	I do not think anyone imagines that this tool alone will completely put an end to all crime in Denmark. I also think that I said very clearly in my speech that this is a jigsaw piece about us having to create security in every corner and border of the country, and that is why the police must have different tools. Depending on what they're diagnosing, they need different tools that they can use as medication to get rid of this. Nor do I agree that the tools we have provided in connection with the gang conflict have had no effect on the gang conflict. If you ask any policeman who works on this, the answer is quite clear that the tools we have provided over recent years have been absolutely crucial, at least in terms of turning down the activities in these environments. But that it stops it alone, I don't think anyone's imagining it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141412	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141415	So far, so good. What if this means that crime just moves? This bill, which we are talking about today, is, as the rapporteur himself said, about the agreement on parallel societies. If this means that crime just moves to other areas, will the Socialists be willing to create penal zones almost throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141439	There are also some who argue that if you just legalize drugs, then that problem has disappeared. And there's also my argument that this crime is moving to another area. No one imagines that this tool can stand alone. In the Social Democratic Party, when we stand on this platform, we always say that prevention, rehabilitation are at least as important tools, if not more important tools, to ensure that especially young people do not end up in crime. This is not going to solve the problems alone, but it is a jigsaw piece, it is a tool that the police can use, for example if you experience a square or playground being ravaged by criminals so that other residents do not dare walk in those areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141524	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, so we will continue in the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141535	Thank you. Security, law and order are at the heart of the Danish People's Party, and that's what goes beyond at least parts of this bill, which is about these areas of punishment. I think it is absolutely crucial that our society can meet the people who challenge our laws and rules in a tough and cash way that there is some flexibility in the way that the authorities can deal with punishment, for example. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I am generally in favour of having higher penalties for the forms of crime summarized in the draft law, so I see nothing controversial about these penal zones at all. I believe that there are plenty of things already in the penal code, where we are also doing something similar to what has been proposed with the penal zones. So I really do not think that the issue is controversial. What may surprise me is why Denmark as a whole is not made into one penal zone, so that penalties are significantly increased throughout the country instead of in selected areas for limited periods of time. So let's do it again, so the whole country will be one big penalty zone. No, of course that has been said with a glimpse in my eye, because I know that it will not happen tomorrow, but I think this is a good step in the right direction, and of course we support that. Then there is the whole question of criminalising reeducational journeys. There is no doubt that it is quite monstrous when children and young people are forced to go on journeys to distant countries where they just get a good deal of indoctrination and abuse, if they have now become a little too Danish. It just doesn't work out, and that's why it's fine that the government is proposing to increase the penalties in that area. We really do not want such parents to be in Denmark at all. So we simply do not believe that this attitude towards Danish society has any future in a society similar to ours. We're going to go into something in depth about this with the inclusion of passports, i.e. how it is enforced in practice; we're going to have a look at that. But there is no doubt that this is the key to part of it, so we can of course support that. Then there is the whole part that deals with the employees' failings of duty in relation to notification. From our point of view, it is at least crucial that this should not sound as if it is a hetz against talented schoolteachers and educators who do their best and who, moreover, inform and do what needs to be done. I would be very sorry that this is suddenly perceived in this way, or if that is the way it is, the end of it will be so, of course it should not be so. And I can see that the government has made some efforts in the comments to write that this applies to senior employees, and that is actually good enough. In other words, we should not chase down those who inform and do their duty. On the contrary, we should be chasing those who ignore these reports, and we will also find out a little more in the course of the committee work how the government intended it to work. But, overall, it is a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141900	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025141915	Thank you. In the Prime Minister's New Year's speech he addressed the fact that in Denmark we are having parallel societies to a worrying extent in the so-called ghetto regions. I do not like the term ghetto areas, I might as well say, but it has now become commonplace to understand the subject here. But we have parallel societies in Denmark in particularly strained areas, and we cannot fail to do something about that; we could easily refrain from doing anything about it; so we do, as all previous governments and former Parliament have done, that is to say let them take care of themselves. But things aren't going very well, and that's why you can only pop with the flag because the government is trying to do something. And, of course, it gets some scolding from time to time. One of the elements covered by this proposal is that of tighter penalties. Double sentences may be imposed if there are more serious crimes of violence in the zones concerned, which can be introduced by the local police commissioner in accordance with section 6 of the Police Code, and zones which are thus subject to double penalties. And not only that, but you can also sharpen the penalty for ordinary crimes committed in these zones, and it's also worth knowing. Whether it will have any effect in the future is always difficult to assess, because it has little to do with whether you think punishment has a general preventive effect and if you believe it, and I do, then I think it will have some effect. But as I said before, the easiest thing would be to stop doing anything, but the government doesn't buy it. Another element here is a tighter framework of criminal sanctions for public service managers, and here we are setting the possible penalty from 4 months to 12 months. It is this way in Denmark that it almost doesn't matter what is in the penal framework, because they are never used to any particular extent. However, the draft law's comments, on the other hand, say that the calculated penalty is the one that counts or, at least, it is suggested to the courts that it increases by about a third. And so it can be said that we are also criminalising reeducational journeys to a greater extent, now with up to four years in prison. I have to say about all these penalties and penalties that are being measured, that they are not minimum penalties; they are, of course, the free discretion of the courts, what the penalty should be free and free, but that is to say, some discretionary circumstances have been introduced into sections 81 and 82 of the Criminal Code, and they can of course be exploited upwards and downwards by the courts. So we are not dictating it here either by the Danish Parliament. All in all, it is a good proposal, and I also hope that it will not get so much scope, I was just saying that far too much falls into the four years of prison, because then things change from being ordinary, easy in system terms to being jury cases, which are somewhat heavier, and then there is probably some financial challenge that the judges think we should be interested in, and if so, we will. However, as the proposal stands here, the Left can support it in any respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142254	Before that, however, there are just two short remarks inscribed, and first, Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142300	Thank you and thank the rapporteur of the Left for an excellent presentation of what this bill is about. In Denmark, as you know, we have a rule of law which deals with equality before the law. Can the rapporteur of the Left explain to me how this proposal is not a dispute with that principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142322	Now I have to be careful with the questioning technique, that is how it does not mean that the questioner thinks it is this is a proposal that punishes a man from Skagen, just as it punishes a man from Fredericia or from Bornholm. What it is doing away with is punishing areas where the crime is taking place, and we therefore want to see extra penalties being imposed in certain areas with the proposal here. But it is not specific people who suffer. So that's the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142359	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142403	Should I then understand that the Left interprets the principle of equality before the law in such a way that it can apply differently in different residential areas and that it can apply differently in different parts of the country? Because I would say that equality before the law means that you are equal before the law, no matter where you live, what kind of gender you have, what kind of ethnicity you have, what age you have, etc. etc. Well, equality before the law must apply no matter what. But it is so much up to an interpretation according to the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142440	I interpret equality before the law in such a way that people who are in one's situations must be treated equally. Then it can hardly be said more clearly, and that is why I would also like to say that the person from Skagen who commits a crime in a criminal zone must be punished just like the person from Bornholm who, for example, commits the same crime in the same criminal zone.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142505	The next brief remark is Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142510	I would like to ask the Left: what schools have been visited by the government, where the problem is that they do not inform?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142522	The question arises as to what schools the government has visited, which makes it felt that sufficient information is not being given. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142532	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142536	So I would like to ask: what kind of schools is the government aware of?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142539	I simply could not hear what was being asked about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142542	What kind of schools do you know about the problem? Well, I assume that you think there is a problem not to notify, since you are suggesting that something should be done about it. What kind of schools have that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142600	I cannot generally stand here and appoint different schools in the Kingdom of Denmark. I assume it is primary schools that are referred to with that question. But I can say that when the government puts this provision in, it is to make it clear that there have been several cases where the reports to be made have not been made, the so-called compulsory reports. And when it is people who are in a leading position and get a very high salary for it and yet fail to do so, it is the government's view that the hammer should also fall with a penalty increase, in this case with a third of what else they might have arrived.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142643	The next brief remark is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142647	Thank you. I would like to follow up on Mrs Lund's question. I would like to ask the rapporteur how it can be that half of the crime is punishable, for example, by half. Gentofte.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142703	There are many ways to turn the questions around. If we are only to be penalised by half in a region where there is no area of punishment, compared with a region where there is a zone of punishment, then it is simply because of the fact that the penal zones in this proposal are double up. Then it cannot be said more clearly. If a penalty zone is created in Gentofte and that can certainly not be ruled out, it depends on how inconvenient it will be to live in Gentofte.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142730	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142734	But it's strange that it has to be cheaper and that you have to be punished less when you're doing crime in Gentofte if you're making a violent break-in where the family is sleeping than if you do it in a place where the government has now created a tighter penalty zone. Well, I don't think it's equality before the law either. I understand that equality before the law is overall towards those individuals and that the government can therefore do so in this way in creating penal zones, but it is so a bit grotesque that it is cheaper to do the same kind of crime in, for example. North Zealand than somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142816	Well, I guess we're running around the same terminology. It is therefore not some people that we are calling for a higher penalty, it is some places that are particularly vulnerable and in those places there is a risk of a higher penalty. After all, the Social Democratic rapporteur had several excellent examples from the legislation, both traffic law and criminal law, etc. We create search zones if there are problems in a particular area, and a search without suspicion is illegal today, but it is not in a search zone. Why isn't it? Well, that is precisely because there is a greater risk of crimes being committed. And there are special rules which we certainly do not hold back from making in certain zones in criminal law. But I repeat, and I think this is the fourth time: it is not special rules that apply to certain people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142909	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142915	Thank you. I don't even understand the outrage of the left over these penal zones. It's a fine initiative the government has taken. However, I just need the rapporteur, following the debate that has taken place in the Chamber, to perhaps just clarify something or tell me whether I am right or whether the rapporteur agrees with what I am saying. For now there was an example with Gentofte before that if you committed special crimes in Gentofte, why shouldn't you get the same punishment as in a punishment zone? However, does the rapporteur not agree that if you suddenly have a very difficult area in Gentofte, then the police will also have the opportunity to make it a penal zone? Well, this isn't meant for specific people or locked geographically; it's meant for where there might be a need. And I think that is actually a fine measure. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025142958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143002	The short answer is yes. I think I also mentioned earlier that the conditions for setting up a penal zone in Ghentofte are mainly criminals which cause insecurity to other citizens in the area, and then the Commissioner will be able to set up a penal zone and you will also be able to risk double punishment in Gentofte. And you can risk that, whether you're from Skagen or from Bornholm, when you commit crime in Gentofte, provided this penalty zone is established, I have to stress that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143034	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143042	Thank you. This bill starts by stating that the government wants a coherent Denmark based on democratic values such as freedom, legal certainty, equality, freedom, tolerance and equality. I actually find that a little strange that the government wants to make clear in a bill that is about exactly the opposite. This bill is a fight with many of these values; it is a fight with fundamental legal principles such as equality before the law, equality, tolerance and freeness of speech. One of the most important cornerstones of a democracy is that the law is the same for all of us... regardless of where we live or where we go or what skin color or sexuality we have. It is an absolutely fundamental principle that the government and the Social Democrats will now put an end to. The proposal to punish doubles if crimes are committed in certain residential areas is an expression of indirect discrimination, and it will not solve the problems that exist in the residential areas covered by the bill. In fact, I think it will have the opposite effect. This bill will mean that the people who live in the vulnerable residential areas will be pushed even further away from the rest of society. I was born and raised at Nørrebro, and I live quite close to Mjølnerparken, which is one of the areas that this bill could deal with. And I fully agree that there have been problems and that there may still be problems and that they need to be resolved. I just doubt this bill is the answer. Penalty for certain types of crime committed at certain crime scenes will not solve anything. Instead, we need to use some other tools. If, as a young person, for example... If graffiti has been painted or broken a window, it will be a much better solution to demand that the young perpetrator cleans up and repairs the damage, thus removing the graffiti or changing the window, so that there will be a consequence, but also a sense of responsibility for the area in which you live, with the young person, so that crime does not happen again. Penalty doubles in one area will just move crime to another area. And all of a sudden, this bill will be an invitation to commit crime in residential areas where there is no double penalty, and that makes absolutely no sense. In other words, a break-in in Hellerup will only pay half the penalty compared to what it pays in Gellerup. Or to take two areas that are a little closer to each other: If the burglar lives on outer Nørrebro, you can with advantage cross the municipality border to Frederiksberg, and there may also be a little more to pick up there for a burglar. Apart from this, most of the crime today is committed close to the perpetrator's residence; it may be the sale of illegal drugs or vandalism. And because the government has made its so-called ghetto list based on economic status and ethnicity, the double punishment hits those who are at the bottom of the social ladder, hardest. The director's son or daughter, who lives in Holte and sells 2 g of hash at home in the villa district, will be punished milder than the sosu assistant's son or daughter, who sells hash at Mjølnerparken. I fully agree that there is a problem, that there are residential areas with major problems, that there are residential areas where poverty is high, unemployment is high and there are language problems. These are problems that need to be resolved, but they will not be when special rules and controls are introduced. On the contrary, the government's plans will destroy many of the good projects and initiatives already under way in general residential areas. We need to stop the crime. Yes, that is what we are doing, but we are not doing it by introducing double sentences; we are doing it by discovering it in time and showing that there are consequences. The draft law here also provides that there must be an increased penalty for civil servants managers who fail to report. And frankly, I don't understand why the government thinks this is necessary. My experience as a former public servant in a day-care institution in a exposed residential area with children from socially vulnerable families is not that there are no reports, but it is that reports are not being followed up. That is because there are so great savings on municipal welfare. What would solve something would be employing social workers in the day-care institutions and linking more social workers to schools so that efforts can be made in time. You do not help socially vulnerable children and their parents by threatening the staff of the understaffed institutions with punishment. This is done, on the other hand, by adding more resources and competences. The last part of the bill is about punishment for reeducational trips. Here, in the Enhedslisten, we do not believe that punishment is part of the solution; we are at least sceptical about it, and we believe that we should take action with some other things. I don't think it can come as a surprise that it's going to be a no thank you from the Enhedslisten to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143547	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143552	Thank you. The rapporteur's speech was quite on the moon. I just have to say that. It was said that this would end with tolerance, liberalism, and I'll come after you. It was completely on another planet. I think we should take a look at the proposal from the government. I would like to ask two follow-up questions quite openly. I understand that if you vote for this, you are against both liberalism and tolerance, and I just want to emphasise that I am not. As I said, however, I have two questions for the rapporteur. The first question is this: if one imagines that Mrs Rosa Lund and myself lived in such a penal zone with a lot of other people, then it would be the same for Mrs Rosa Lund, myself and everyone else who had to live in it. So there would be equality before the law. But there would also be the similarity that if, all of a sudden, severe crime was committed in another area, it could, for example, be committed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think it is indecent, moreover, to try to scold some in this Chamber for them to be rich parties in some way. I don't think that suits the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143701	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143705	Thank you. Well, I would say that if you think this bill is going to work, then you're gonna live on another planet, but I don't think anyone's gonna be in any doubt about that. Peter Kofod and I often live on each of our planets. In relation to what I am saying about equality before the law, it is about the fact that the bill says that these are socially vulnerable residential areas. I know Hellerup is not on the list of socially vulnerable residential areas, that is, the so-called ghetto list that the government has created. That is why I am quoting that example.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143740	Sir. Peter Kofod wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143743	Well, the thing is, you can, in principle, use these zones where it might fit in. I don't live in Hellerup, I live in a completely different place in this country and I am happy about it, but I also expect that at that moment I hope it will not happen that very severe crime might be committed in the small area of Jutland in which I live, there will of course also be a penalty zone there, so that of course people who cannot let me, my neighbors or all kinds of others in that area will be hit harder. That's fair and fair. It is not the same as saying that there is a punishment for people in Hellerup, and then there is another punishment for people who may be poor. I think it is simply dishonest to deal with this bill in this way. I don't think it suits the extreme left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143824	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143827	I simply do not think it is equality before the law that punishment should be higher in some residential areas than in some other residential areas. I simply think it is unreasonable to introduce penal zones in this way. I do not think it is an expression of equality before the law, although Mr. Peter Kofod and I would be punished the same way if we lived in a penalty zone. We would then be punished differently from people who lived somewhere else, and that is the whole problem with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143855	Then it's Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143859	I would like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether she is quite sure that she has read the bill here correctly. Because there were definitely wrong things in the rapporteur's speech. It is not true that this penalty zone is being established in all socially vulnerable residential areas. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether she is quite sure that she has caught what this bill is actually about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143924	Yeah, I'm pretty sure I caught what this bill is all about. This bill is about giving the police the opportunity to introduce penal zones in some residential areas where the police believe it is necessary. That is what the draft law is all about, and I think that is unreasonable. I believe that this is a dispute with the concept of equality before the law. I understand that I disagree with Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143945	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025143948	In the rapporteur's speech, Mrs Rosa Lund said that the proposal would mean that there would be double penalties in all vulnerable residential areas. That's not true. This proposal is, of course, about the police having it as a tool they can, but where the insecurity is to a large extent, you can also see that the measurements are in exposed residential areas. So I just think that the rapporteur should stick to what the draft law is about and not say that it means that in future everyone living in vulnerable residential areas will have to be punished twice, because that is simply not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144028	I think I also said that there would be a penalty zone in vulnerable residential areas. That is what the draft law says, and that is what is mentioned as an example. It is true that the draft law also says that there may be other places as well. But let us be honest: this is a legislative proposal based on the agreement that the Socialists themselves have been involved in making, which deals with socially vulnerable residential areas, which you yourself refer to as the ghetto agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144053	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144057	I agree with much of what Mrs Lund says in her speech. But I must also say that I am sincerely disappointed with it, I think, completely arrogant attitude towards young people who are being held captive by their own families in Somalia, for example. To the fact that this is the only way to sweep aside the issue of reeducational journeys by saying that you don't think punishment works, I have to say: no, but what were we supposed to do? Is Mrs Rosa Lund aware of the dramatic reports we are getting? For example: tells an association like Ethnic Youth that young people from certain Middle Eastern countries are calling Denmark and begging for help, and time and again we hear stories about how young people in our primary school classes are afraid to go on holiday. Despite that, a rapporteur from a left-wing party should sweep it off and say: well, we do not believe that punishment works. In other words, how about just taking care of young people who are so much at risk and who are so much begging for help from among others. Rosa Lund, who we just need to hear is saying it's probably not working! But what does it work?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144155	Thank you for the question. I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Karsten Hønge asks. I was running out of time, so I couldn't say anything more than that I don't believe that what lies in this bill necessarily works. I believe that the emphasis must be placed on school and social management so that we can discover this in time. I also believe that resources should be allocated to this by the police, but whether it is the inclusion of the passport that works is not necessarily something I am sure of. It may be some other things that work. But yes, I take it very seriously, both with the reeducational journeys and in general what we are experiencing in the environments where there is social control of young people. I think we certainly owe it to them to take that seriously. But, as I said, I was running out of time up here, because I was so furious about the aggravated punishment zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144238	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144241	Yes, but we still come to the conclusion: what is most important to you? I just think that, as a left-wing party, the most important thing is to take care of those who are weakest, and those who are weakest are the young people who are betrayed and held captive by their own families. Surely there must be no wavering at all, as I see it, from a left-wing point of view. I am also aware that Enhedslisten believes it is right that parents who physically abuse their children should be punished. I also know that Enhedslisten does not believe that that is the only thing to do. It's obvious. Punishing parents for mistreating their children is not all you have to do. They must also be punished because punishment is part of the tools we need for parents who have not understood their role as parents, namely the task of caring for their children by neither physically treating them in Denmark nor sending them to re-education abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144325	Well, then you can discuss whether the weighting of it should have been different in my speech. However, as a legal rapporteur, I now think that this is a rather big problem and that it is quite important to discuss in here what consequences it has to introduce stricter penal zones. Having said that, it does not mean that I will never discuss reeducational journeys. In other words, when we discuss this today, it does not mean that we will never discuss economic crime either. It is also possible to discuss whether we should spend a little more time in this House.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144353	Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144357	Thank you. So I have to say that I think that the rapporteur is saying things that are at best grossly manipulative in relation to the proposal we are actually dealing with. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur to confirm the facts. Is it the case, Mrs Rosa Lund, that with the proposal for reinforced punishment zones such a sharpened penalty zone could be created in Gentofte, Hellerup, on the coast of Rungsted and other places where rich people live that Enhedslisten does not like?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144427	I don't know if Enhedslisten doesn't like rich people. But I can at least confirm that as far as the creation of the zones is concerned, this is something the police can do as a result of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144436	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144441	Thank you. Then I would also ask Mrs Lund to confirm something else factual, because the rapporteur actually made a mistake in her reply to Trine Bramsen, namely that if you as a citizen are punished twice after the establishment of a reinforced criminal justice zone, it will happen, completely and completely independently of the address at which the citizen in question lives. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144507	Yeah, that's right. But I also said in my rapporteur's speech what I think Mrs Christina Egelund knows very well, namely that most of the crime that you have defined in the bill as unsafe crime is committed close to your home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144523	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144535	Thank you very much. I'm just trying to get my blood pressure back down. In the Liberal Alliance, we want a democratic society based on freedom, liberalism and legal certainty. There are places in Denmark where other values dominate, and that is why we have a political responsibility to prevent and break down parallel societies. It takes a multi-faceted effort. The bill here gives, among other things: the possibility of setting up these reinforced penal zones in order to combat crime more effectively in a more geographically defined area with an extraordinary crime picture which significantly creates insecurity for people living or moving in the area. In these zones, the penalties for certain types of crime could be significantly increased for a period of time in order to create order and security and, above all, security for the citizens who live in the area. In the definition of reinforced criminal justice zones, this will be a police professional assessment which will make an objective assessment of the nature of the crime picture found in the area in question which is likely to lead, in general, to considerable insecurity among citizens living or moving in the area. It is essential for the Liberal Alliance that these are objective criteria, so that stricter punishment zones are not just randomly designated at the discretion of the police. These must be areas where an objective crime picture can be identified showing that the State is using extraordinary methods, such as reinforced areas of punishment, and where reinforced areas of punishment are deemed to be a suitable tool for changing the crime picture and for creating calm and security. There has been criticism, and this has also been voiced in the House today, of the fact that the initiative of stricter penal zones should be a dispute with the principle of equality before the law. It is not a dispute with the principle of equality before the law, because the law applies to all citizens. The principle of equality before the law is about equality before the law for people, not equality before the law for places. In the Liberal Alliance, we also welcome the fact that the draft law here includes: have the opportunity to punish the parents who send their children on so-called reeducational journeys. Parents should not, of course, be able to send their children abroad to situations which endanger children. We, as a society, cannot accept that at all. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance support the bill, which contains a number of diverse initiatives, all of which aim to prevent and break down parallel societies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144829	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025144835	Thank you. Today, we are dealing first with a legislative proposal which contains three independent main parts, which really have nothing to do with each other at all. One part of Bill L 22 deals with the introduction of so-called tightened penalty zones and translates into parts of the government's proposal, called "One Denmark without parallel society" no ghettoes in 2030. The second part of the bill will criminalise so-called re-educational journeys, and the third part of the proposal is aimed at strengthening the extended notification obligation for public employees. I think it is a general trend that we see here in the Folketing at the moment, namely that legislative proposals are put together by various elements which have nothing to do with each other at all, and it binds us in such a way that either we have to say no to everything or we have to say yes to everything. I think it is problematic that things get mixed up, which is why I would like to announce that I would like the bill to be split up so that the things that we cannot agree to in the draft law, namely the tightening up of penal zones and the tightening of the extended notification obligation for public employees, will be one legislative proposal, because we intend to vote strongly against this, which I shall probably justify, whereas criminalisation in relation to the re-education journey is something that we can support, and we would like to vote in favour of it. But if it is not split up, we will have to vote against it all. In relation to the last part on the reeducation journey, we do not think that punishment in this way solves any problems at all. We believe that prevention should take place, we believe that it should be worked intensively with this in schools and in municipalities and the places where the problems are encountered. We believe that young people should be supported, and we believe that parents should be supported, in relation to the fact that children are not sent for forced re-education. So I'll assume that's one of the things we're working on, and I know that's some of what we're doing. In addition, in the alternative, we can agree to punish it. If parents, if these measures are done, will send their children on a reeducational journey against the child's will, there must be some form of punishment. We believe that it will have a preventive effect, including criminalisation, and that is why, as I said, we can support that part of the proposal. Then, when we come to the part of the draft law which deals with reinforced punishment zones, the waves have gone high here from the platform, but I must admit that I agree with the part of the group that feels that it is deeply problematic that in this way we turn certain areas into reinforced punishment zones. This means, in practice, that if you commit a crime in that place where there is a tighter penalty zone, you can be punished twice as much. In fact, I believe that this proposal is contrary to fundamental principles of legal certainty and pills on what I might call the basic principles of the division of power, and I do so on the basis of the fact that the police are actually involved in the question of the punishment, because they are the ones who are empowered to designate the so-called aggravated punishment zones on the basis of some general considerations as to whether in a given area there is an extraordinary crime picture, and I think that is actually a democratic problem. Whether or not a penalty should be higher, because there are aggravating circumstances, I believe that there should be a concrete assessment by the courts, and in practice, the proposal for an increased penal framework in certain geographical areas can very easily be taken into account and seen as a • and that is what I am doing • indirect discrimination, as I believe it can be understood as actions targeted at specific social and ethnic groups in what I would call vulnerable residential areas. If nothing else, the draft law leads to inequality before the law, since people living in areas designated as more severe areas of punishment because they have their daily movements in the areas will have an increased risk of double punishment if they commit some of the types of crime referred to in the draft law, compared to those who commit crime in zones without increased penalties. I simply do not understand the last part of the draft law, which deals with increased penalties for breaches of special extended reporting obligations for public servants, because this is in such an area where I say that penalties do not help. We already have public employees, they have an obligation to notify, we know that public employees are informing, and I find it very difficult to see why people with up to one year's imprisonment should be punished in relation to the obligation to notify, when we know that public employees are reporting to a large extent today. There is no evidence in the government's proposal that there are no notifications to be made, so we cannot support that part of the proposal either. As I said, overall, we cannot support the package, but I would call for the bill to be shared, and I would like to table an amendment on that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145410	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145415	This was something that the rapporteur mentioned, which caused me to press in, namely a problematisation of the fact that it was supposed to confuse the division of power with the strengthening of punishment zones. It sounded almost like the rapporteur, as if with this proposal, the police are getting carte blanche to introduce penal zones because they think it is fun or that they can introduce them according to some criteria that they themselves make up. Would the rapporteur not just confirm that we agree on what we are talking about, that the bill says that it is objective criteria that must be met before a police commissioner can appoint a specific geographical area into a penal zone and that it is therefore not after the will of the police and therefore of an executive authority?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145502	I can confirm that, because it is absolutely right. What I am trying to do is to solve the problem, among other things. It says about the objective criterion, namely that there must be an extraordinary crime picture. And that's an assessment. In addition, there is the other part that I mentioned, namely that if you commit crime today, or if you intend to commit crime, you can really look it up and see exactly: What do I get for this crime I'm doing? But with this, you can almost overnight be in a tighter penalty zone. What I mean is that there is not the same objective overview of what it really costs to commit crime, because you can commit crime in a tighter criminal zone, and you can commit crime in an unenhanced criminal zone. That is why I think it is inequality for the law, and I also think that there is a problem regarding the division of power.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145559	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145603	But I also believe that we can agree that it should not be the case that you can sit and look up in the criminal code to see where it is, like, worthwhile to commit crime. It should be the case that it is not worth committing crime anywhere. In fact, we want a society where you do not break the law or criminalise other people. I would just like to ask you something else, because I also think that it sounded a little bit in the rapporteur's speech, as if, when you do this and imagine that it is actually being applied and that a tighter penalty zone is being introduced for a period of time in an area, it is a little sin for the citizens who live there. But does the rapporteur not also see that it can be quite awesome for the citizens who live in an area where cars are on fire and shot in the streets that the police can actually move in and do something significant about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145644	Yes, and that is why it is so great to discuss it here in Parliament, because these are the different views that are put into it. I can quite clearly follow that view too. But I also hope that the rapporteur can take a different view. We know, of course, that there is a greater likelihood of committing crime close to the place where you live, and that means that you will have a number of citizens who will be punished more because they live in a exposed residential area because that is where they are doing crime. We fully agree that, as a starting point, people should not commit crime. This leads us along a longer path, which is that it is a socially exposed residential area. Why is it that you end up committing crime? It may be because you have not had such a good upbringing because you may not have been so good at school etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145724	I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025145734	Thank you for that, and I apologise for coming in and out of the Chamber for this bill, but we are negotiating the gamble pool and psychiatry action plan right on top of this. This bill, seen radically, contains both good and bad, and so, like the alternative rapporteur, I would like to call on the Minister to divide up the bill. First, I want to start with the good element. This is what is at stake is being able to punish parents for sending their children on a reeducational journey and the possibility of including passports. These are, of course, some of the things that we in the Radical Left have proposed, and when we first brought it up, there were quite a lot of people who actually opened their eyes to the fact that we came up with this proposal, because it is actually very far-reaching, but we think that it may be the right way to go instead of much of the symbolic legislation that has been made, but also some of the proposals that hit anything other than what is really the problem. Don't do that, and then try to focus on what is the real problem, and these two things can actually help make a difference. For us in the Radical Left, it is important that you as a child can be sure that parents can never find out that it was because you said something to a educator or a teacher that your passport was involved, so that the trusting relationship you can have with your educators and your teachers cannot come under pressure. Secondly, it is also very important that as a child you cannot risk being punished if your parents are punished because of this, i.e. you risk being thrown out or otherwise, because your parents are now being punished because of this. Of course, it must never affect the children. In relation to what is bad in this draft law, the rapporteurs before me have already said it very precisely. The introduction of special penal zones is both wrong and unreasonable, even if you try to wrap it up in everything else, as if you could theoretically have taken the trip from Skagen to commit crime in a particular residential area, it is a breach of equality before the law, and we in the Radical Left are against that. The second thing we are opposed to is the element of punishing leaders, and I tried to ask the rapporteur of the Left what kind of schools are they, where the problem is that they have not been informed? The Left could not reply to that, so perhaps the Minister will say something about it in his speech, because I assume that as a government one has sat down and analysed what it is, the problem is, that is, what knowledge one has used for the problem is that one does not inform. My experience is that many notifications are made from day offers and from schools, and the frustration out there is that you hear nothing back, and what is really the solution is to make sure that, for example, you do not hear anything. have social workers in schools, so that when you as a teacher have a concern about a child, you are not about to fill in papers and send in, but that you can actually go down the hallway, go into the office where the social worker is, and get to grips with it immediately, so that as a teacher you can intervene before and also get a response right away. I believe that what the government is proposing now will just mean, as KL also writes in its hearing answer, that there will be many more who are sending in more notifications, the bunkers are just growing, and I am not sure that there are necessarily more children who are being helped for this reason; on the contrary, we are just risking that there will be even longer response times for all the other cases. I will, of course, keep the government in its ears as to whether or not they really shoot themselves in the foot with this proposal. So this is a call from the Radical Left. I hope that the government will split up the proposal, because we would like to vote in favour of the first part, so that we can punish parents who send their children on a re-educational journey and have the opportunity to include passports, but we will vote against penal zones and the punishment of leaders.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025150240	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025150252	The draft law contains three completely different initiatives, which there is no good argument whatsoever for mixing together in one legislative proposal. The SF calls for the bill to be split up so that it is possible to vote on each element. About the elements SF believes: Full support for criminalising the so-called re-educational journeys has in fact even previously made proposals about it. It is absolutely appalling to meet with, among others. an association such as Ethnic Youth and hear about their hair-raising stories about young people being captured by their own families; stories about young people in our primary school who are afraid of their parents' plans for the summer; about emergency calls from among others. Somalia, where young Danes begging for help. There is another element which the SF cannot support, namely the proposal for double penalties in certain zones. As we see it, it first and foremost triggers a cuckoo effect, in which crime is simply pushed forward. We also run the risk that the dramatically increased penalties will come out of proportion and that it will give rise to even more frustration and desperation in residential areas that have already been challenged. We see in the hearing organizations, among others. Justitia, there are a number of concerns. This is true, for example. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that there is no limit to the time frame in which a zone is to be introduced and that there is no regulation as to how well the police have to communicate, that it is a tighter penalty zone. It only needs to be publicised. Amnesty International also points out that it seems very doubtful that the law does not require a clear and clear distinction to be made in the areas, both because people have to pay attention to it and because it may in itself actually help to secure the purpose of the law. Then the question is also raised in the hearings that very long sentences are, of course, very likely to reduce the possibility of rehabilitation. The last point cannot be supported by the SF either, namely the desire to further criminalise public leaders. It is also as if you are correcting the guard in the wrong place, because the picture out there is that many alerts are being made. It is possible that there are not enough reports; it is indeed possible that there should be more reports from public managers in day-care institutions and public schools. It is certainly an option. However, where we see the real challenge, in fact, the reports end up in the municipal crushing machine to far too great an extent and there is no follow-up on the papers, that is that there is the problem. So why actually shoot at a place where there might be a problem? We do not really know the extent of it, but at least we know the extent of reports that tell us time and time again that you have actually made a report to the municipality and that it will end up in a dead end. For, of course, the problem of incomplete reporting and faulty handling of it should be addressed in the current framework, and if a public manager fails to submit reports, it must of course also have consequences, as in any other maladministration. In the SF, we just do not believe that the public sector should be led with fear and threats of increased prison sentences.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025150643	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge, and we move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025150652	There are a great many refugees and immigrants who have been integrated into Denmark, who have a job that speaks Danish and who contribute positively to this society. We must remember that, and we must appreciate it. Unfortunately, there are also some who have been maintained in another world. There are some who live in an area where what characterises the area is isolation, hostility to the surrounding society, high crime, etc. These are areas which are not part of Danish society that most of us know. There are holes in the Danmark map. We need to put an end to parallel societies. Therefore, the government presented the ambitious ghetto package, where the clear ambition is that there should be no more ghettos by 2030. With this bill, we translate several parts of this ghetto package. First of all, we are introducing the possibility for the police to introduce limited penalties in areas where exceptional crime creates insecurity for residents. Another major problem in parallel societies is the need to keep your children in the culture of your home country. There are some parents who believe that Danish values such as freedom, liberalism and democracy are so harmful that they have to shield their children from them. It also involves sending your children back to their home country where they can be re-educated. We have read many stories about these tours, where young people are threatened and beaten to wrong and where they either come home with trauma, with extreme ideas or both. We should not accept that. The bill prohibits such journeys. At the same time, we also allow the police to confiscate the children's passports if they are suspected of being sent on such a journey. Those who have the greatest responsibility for good integration are the public leaders who have contact with families. With the legislative proposal, we are tightening up the penalty for maladministration and thus stressing the great responsibility and duty that rests on their shoulders. So this bill is another step on the way to combating parallel societies. We think this is sensible, and of course we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025150924	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025150935	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the many reflections and contributions here today. What a good debate it has been. As you know, the draft law implements a number of initiatives in the government's proposal...One Denmark without a parallel After decades of failed immigration and integration policy, we find ourselves in a situation where far too many immigrants and descendants have ended without association with the surrounding society, without education, without jobs and without being able to sufficiently Danish. There have been parallel societies, and we cannot and must not accept that. We must have a coherent Denmark based on democratic values such as freedom, freedom, equality, tolerance, equality. We want to put an end to the development in which those living in parallel societies do not meet the ordinary Denmark, and we want to put an end to the fact that in some places we see behaviour that is contrary to the Danish values on which our society is based. We must prevent and we must break down parallel societies, and that is why we need to respond if a residential area continues to experience insecure crime and ensure that all children have a good start in life, and that is precisely the purpose of the bill. First of all, with the draft law, we are hitting hard on crime, which can maintain an area of insecurity. Over the years, we have seen examples of young people dominating a residential area with violence, threats, vandalism and blackmail, so that the security and security of residents and others who travel in the area have suffered serious damage. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, and that is why the draft law provides the police with a new tool in the fight against the kind of insecurity-building crime that can flare up over a period of time and then you can take action against. The police will have the opportunity to introduce a tighter penalty zone for a limited period of time if an extraordinary crime picture is created in an area which is essential for creating insecurity for residents and others who travel in the area. After all, it is a tool that can be used anywhere in Denmark, where the police consider that the conditions are met. It will say this is politically what it is that must be fulfilled, what it is for some things that makes it possible to say suddenly from the point of view of the Commissioner that there is now a tighter penalty zone. If you commit crime there, yes, you will be punished with double punishment. There have been many comments on this today. I will probably have the opportunity to answer some of that, but it is a mystery to me that we can have a debate here today about whether or not this is equality before the law. It is simply beyond my comprehension that we can have such a debate. In other words, when you see in one area that it has flared up there may have been burnt containers, there has been an extra number of break-ins, and a whole lot of things have happened and we then introduce a tightened-up penalty zone to damp it down, it is true that everyone who chooses to make crime in that area no matter where they live and where they come from. Sometimes when we discuss this, it's as if the sum of crime is constant or as if crime is just gonna move. That's not what this is about. It is a question for a period of time to intervene in residential areas where what is happening is proven to be quite wrong because it has flared up and therefore we must have brought it down again. That's why we're being deployed. I understand that those who mean this are going to put forward a proposal in the Parliamentary Assembly that is about driving too fast in road work, for example. In Holbæk, you should not be penalised more severely today, although it is an aggravating circumstance if you drive too fast, where there is a roadwork because there are some we need to be careful of. But I can understand that is completely contrary to all legal principles and a sign of inequality before the law. No, it is a sign that it applies to everyone and that we have said that in a smaller area of Denmark there is something we must be careful of. It's kind of the same thing here. I agree that a tighter penalty zone will often be in a exposed residential area; that is clear. It is clear that this is where a lot of crime is being committed: some young roots run around and set fire to all sorts of things and commit vandalism or violence. Then it is good that the citizens who live in that area know that we are on their side and that we are putting in place additional measures to enable these roots to be dampened and to feel the consequences of their actions. By the way, I was incredibly surprised at some of Mrs Lund's contributions. I am not quoting it literally because I just couldn't write it down because I got so excited. Enhedslisten said something about if you did vandalism and other things, well, then it could be that you had to clean up after yourself. It was about putting in early, doing something earlier, and that things had a consequence. Excellent! I look forward to 6 November, when we will be discussing the government's youth crime package, to which I hear a great deal of support from the Enhedslisten here today. I know it's not this bill, but with those remarks, it's gonna be a party we're having that day, with the support of a whole, totally unexpected place. There will certainly be questions about zones of punishment, and I am happy to discuss this, because it is in this way about us taking the right side, in other words on the law and order side, on the side of those who want to live in a peaceful society. But it is not only in residential areas that we must create security. We have to do that within the four walls of our home. We need to make sure that children get a good start to life. It can have serious and far-reaching consequences for a child if parents send the child abroad to conditions that could endanger the child's health or development. This may be the case with so-called reeducational journeys. It can be devastating for a child's future opportunities if, on the re-education journey, it is subjected to neglect and ill-treatment or if the child is socially isolated abroad. With the bill, we are putting a lot of pressure on such a negative effect and stressing to parents who are considering sending their child abroad to harmful conditions that it cannot be accepted. At the same time, it is important that we take the necessary steps to prevent parents from sending their children on such stays abroad. That is why the draft law provides that in cases where there are grounds for believing that a child will be sent on a so-called harmful journey, the police should be able to withdraw the child's passport or refuse to issue it so that the parents cannot send the child abroad. The refusal to issue a passport should not, of course, be a punishment for the child. Therefore, the child will be able to obtain a temporary passport if necessary for, for example, a temporary passport. to attend a camp school or to attend a sports convention. Finally, it is absolutely essential for children to have a good start in life, that it is discovered as early as possible if there is a child who needs special support. It can, for example, be done. be because the child is subjected to violence or abuse in the home. Professionals play a key role in this regard. In addition to the parents, it is most often professionals such as educators, teachers and healthcare professionals who have the closest contact with the children. This means that the professionals are in a position where they can early discover whether a child needs special support and inform the municipality about it. Here the leader of e.g. day-to-day services and schools have a special responsibility to support culture and to inform if you become acquainted with children who are miserable. That is why this draft law is putting in place a general tightening of penalties in the criminal code for maladministration by public authorities, so that leaders become more aware of their great responsibilities and of the consequences if they fail to do so. There are, of course, clear guidelines in the law today that, as an employee, you have a duty of information. I've been a schoolteacher myself for 10 years. There is a duty to inform if you see anything. But this really has to send out a signal that we're not there yet. It is not the case that we say that we have a perfect society and that there are no problems at all. We need to be aware of this increased duty. We then believe that it is a management responsibility to ensure that there is the right culture in the individual workplace. That's why this sharpening thing has been put in. But you can be quite calm, because if everything is as it should be, this sharpening is not going to work. I just think it is an important political signal to send out from the Folketing to say: this is something you should take seriously. We have already implemented many initiatives to combat parallel societies. This bill is another step along the way. With these comments, I should like to thank you once again for your speeches, and I shall look forward to the further examination of the proposal and, above all, to the debate that may follow from the speech here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025151820	At least there will be something, because we have a brief remark from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025151826	Thank you. The minister can be perfectly calm. I've marked the calendar on November 6th. I look forward very much to discussing the proposal that is being made on juvenile delinquency. But I'd like to stick to this with tighter punishment zones. Can the Minister not confirm that the comments on this bill state that this will be particularly relevant in socially vulnerable residential areas? It is then beyond my comprehension that it is not seen as an expression of direct discrimination and as a clash with the concept of equality before the law, i.e. that the law is different in some areas than in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025151912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025151914	I don't know what kind of acting we're gonna play to each other and to the public. In other words, there is a person in this country who will deny that fact and when it says it, it is because it is a fact that it will, in particular, apply there because it is there that is committed most crime, but it can also apply everywhere else. But it would be a strangely politically correct circus to play to each other to say that it will probably happen equally everywhere, because then we would close our eyes to the reality and knowledge we have. After all, there is not a person who is severely punished because he lives in a particular place. One can be punished particularly hard because one chooses to commit crime in a place that is already burdened for a period of time and therefore has come into a tighter penalty zone. You just can't commit crime. Well, you couldn't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152008	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152010	I certainly don't think this is about playing some theater or circus, I think this is quite serious. I have to say. I cannot understand why the Minister cannot see that this is an expression of discrimination. The minister knows as well as I do that most crime of the type listed in this bill is committed close to where you live. That is why, at least, my fear is and I can then hear whether it is the Minister's fear that it will not be the people who live in these areas who will be hardest hit by these more severe penalties in these tighter penal zones. Instead, we should do something we actually know to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152055	But you can't just engage with conversations. That cannot be the only solution to all legal problems. I agree that preventive work is very important, and we have also included this as a major part of the new youth crime package that we will be discussing on 6 November. Let it go. Of course, preventive work is important. But if you have a bunch of roots running around in a residential area, it may be in a holiday period or at other times when it all suddenly goes crazy, where there is extra much vandalism and violence, and where you set things on fire, then you can say: Stop it! We're going in. Now it costs a little more punishment, because punishment may also be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152132	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152143	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152202	Thank you, and now for something completely different, I guess you can say calmly. With the motion for a resolution that has come from the Alternative, the government is being instructed in the current parliamentary year to put forward a legislative proposal involving the creation of an independent council, called the Dataetic Council. According to the proposers, the Dataetic Council is to advise, inform and contribute to the public debate on ethical issues relating to the data area. The last year, of course, the public debate has focused a great deal on the use of data and ethical issues in this regard, both in relation to public authorities and the private sector. The debate on the use and protection of personal data is important. This showed the debate on the Data Protection Act in the spring and the launch of the government's national strategy on cyber and information security. The motion for a resolution by the Alternative forms part of that debate. The government gives priority to data protection and the protection of Danes' personal data. Personally, I have a great deal of understanding for the public debate on the use and protection of personal data, which is why it is also important to me that our personal data are handled in a safe manner and that this is done in a sound manner and with reasonable purpose in mind. I also sympathise with the idea behind the motion for a resolution tabled, but the government is already focusing on the public debate on the use of data and data ethics and has launched a number of initiatives in this area. The Government, under the auspices of the Disruption Council, has set up an expert group on data ethics. The group of experts has discussed the ethical dilemmas and issues raised by data and the use of new technology. The overall aim is to support Denmark's vision of being a digital frontrunner by ensuring that there remains confidence in the digitalisation of the public sector and companies through ethical and responsible use of data. Against this background, the government has already announced that we will set up a data-ethical council. This happened in connection with the launch of the digital service reform trail. The Dataetic Council shall, inter alia,: make data-ethical recommendations and participate in the public debate on data-ethical dilemmas and issues in society in the light of new technology. The Data-Ethical Council will also have to discuss how data-ethics can improve the competitiveness of business. The Council will therefore be established, and this will happen when the final recommendations of the Expert Group on Data Ethics under the Disruption Council are available. The government's reduction of dataethics is, as mentioned, part of the reform trail on digital service, which was launched recently. The initiative is therefore just one of several specific initiatives in this area. The government will also develop a strategy for data in the public sector so that, within a clear framework, we will be better able to use data to provide citizens and businesses with a more coherent and targeted public service. In addition, the government will ensure that citizens have a better digital overview of their own circumstances and ongoing cases with public authorities. It must therefore also be easier to access the most relevant information available to the public about the individual citizen. In addition, the government wants the citizen to gain insight into which authorities look into information about him or her in the long term. In addition, the government will create a special mailbox at the Data Protection Agency, where citizens can contact if they suspect personal data breaches or are insecure about the use of data by an authority. At the same time, citizens' inquiries will support discussions on data ethics in the Data-Ethical Council. The government's establishment of a data-ethical council should therefore not be seen as isolated, but as part of a larger coherent agenda in this area. In view of the fact that the government has already launched a series of coherent initiatives in this area and will set up a data-ethical council, the government cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152557	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152603	Thank you, Minister. Of course, I think it is really, really positive that the government has now come up with a proposal which includes a data-ethical advice. I am thinking perhaps, or I may at least take a little interest in myself, in order that this might have happened now, because the alternative has tabled this motion for a resolution. What I would like to ask a little concretely is that the Minister says, and it also says in the recommendations, that the expert group on data ethics should make a recommendation. When will it be so that we know when we can start setting up a council? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152646	That advice will be established, as is rightly said when we have the recommendations of the expert group on data ethics, and it is expected that the final recommendations of that group will be published at the beginning of November. So that is just about the moment, and when the final recommendations of the group of experts are available, we will of course deal with them, and then the process of what tasks, function, organisation and coherence should be started. But the proposals of the group of experts themselves will be here at the beginning of November.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152724	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152727	Then I would like to ask, as the alternative has just tabled this motion for a resolution and we have not been involved or heard at all, that the government has then made this proposal, whether the government intends to call the parties or at least the alternative to such closer discussions when the recommendations lie, so that we can have a say in what the final council will look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152752	As far as the process itself is concerned, I will neither rule out one nor promise the other. I would like to say more that this has been done under the auspices of the Disruption Council, where this panel has been set up. Now they come up with some recommendations, and we have to look at them. It is clear, then, that, in this context, the government must of course consider what such a council should contain, and then it would be perfectly natural that at some point here in the Folketing we should talk about what it should be like. I don't think there's such exclusive access to the alternative, but less can do it, I guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152822	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152825	I would say that on the Enhedslisten side, we also warmly support the idea of such a data-ethical advice. That is why I am pleased that the alternative has put forward this proposal, and I am also pleased that the government itself has made the move here. I think that sometimes there is a rather strange dynamic in it when the Minister says that because you are proposing it yourself, you will not be voting in favour of the proposal now. Well, couldn't we all just say, like, "Okay, we're actually a lot of parties who want to do this here, and the government is lucky to be on board, so let's also say together today that we all want to support that. And, as Mrs Josephine Fock suggests, let us get on with talking about how to structure this work forward. Because I think it is something that it is very important that we do together; it is important for all of us. So it's also here a call to the Minister, like to look at whether we can actually do something broader about this forward-looking. So I would like to hear the Minister's position on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025152926	It is not a goal that some people should not be involved. Well, that's not an independent goal. But there is surely nothing wrong with the government's saying today that we do not support a resolution when we ourselves are doing something in this area. We see it as part of a wider context in this whole area. Now I don't know exactly what's coming. It's not something I've been dealing with as such, but I'm just looking forward to getting a data-ethical advice and defining the huge amount of challenges they have to face. I think that is healthy and good. Well, I don't know how important this is... isn't it a bit of a process thing? I mean, isn't the most important thing that we should set up a data-ethics council? And when the government is working on a job, it is not a bad thing that we say that we do not support that resolution, but that there will then be a proposal for a data-ethical council, that is, when we have decided on it. We've already told you there's gonna be some data-ethical advice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153029	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153030	Then I would also like to ask a few questions about the framework for this work. I think, as I said, that a data-ethical council is important, but I also think it is very important for us politically to place more emphasis on what is about data-ethics and also take responsibility for political decisions so that it does not end up in some way being outsourced to such a council. Therefore, I would also like to hear how the Minister views the possibility of creating a real IT ministry and how the Minister views the possibility of setting up a proper IT committee in the Parliamentary Assembly, because I have to admit that I think we are so lacking in our daily work. And I can see that it could play very well along with the establishment of such a data-ethical council that we also got the other structures in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153116	As far as a definite IT ministry is concerned, I must refer to the Prime Minister, in other words, as to what ministries we should have. Is there a need for such a committee? Well, I'm thinking more that it has to be about how we think about data ethics and the whole challenge of our all data into the daily work. Now it is a little early to respond to so much of this now, because this is a first reading of a resolution from the Alternative; it is not the government's proposal that we are considering. I'm just saying, I look forward to coming all around. And I think it would be in the interests of the whole parliament to find a really good solution to how we handle other people's data. I don't think there's necessarily such a big conflict in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153158	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we start the rapporteur's round; first it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153222	Thank you for the floor. It is not that long since we last had a question about a data-ethical council up here in the Chamber, and at that time it was also a motion for a resolution. As far as the Social Democrats are concerned, I can say that we now find, as at the time, the idea of a data-ethical council very interesting. We are at a time when both the public debate and the Parliament, government, authorities and companies will benefit from the fact that there is advice that can guide and advise on data-ethics issues. It may be the use of data, the collection of information, registration, etc. etc. Now, however, it has happened that the government, with its digitalisation trail for digital service on Tuesday, announced that the government is now coming up with a bill on a data-ethical council. And that is exactly what the alternative is asking for. That in some ways makes this motion for a resolution somewhat superfluous. I am not saying that the debate on a data-ethical council is superfluous, but now the negotiations on what should become a data-ethical council are starting in reality. We in the Socialist Group believe that we must put all our best efforts into these negotiations so that we can have strong and scientifically sound data-ethical advice in the near future. There is, as I see it, no political disagreement about the objective, nor about the areas listed in the motion for a resolution as to what a data-ethical council can and should deal with, and I can therefore of course express sympathy for the resolution, although I believe it has been overtaken by the promise of legislation made by the government on Tuesday. The part of the resolution on the establishment of a separate parliamentary committee will not be taken up today. I think it is important that we act sensibly and that we should therefore be absolutely sure what such a committee should do in the Folketing. My scepticism is whether a mandate for such a committee would not even be very narrow, but the work of the committee would be able to provide that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153455	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153459	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted for her sympathy for the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur put it. Of course, I'm really, really happy about that. As I have already indicated to the Minister, it is true that we have been overtaken inside. I do not think that the answers given by the Minister from the Chair are very satisfactory, because the work can only begin when the recommendations of this group of experts are available. What I really want to ask the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party is: could the rapporteur be involved in making a report in which we wrote some of the things that are contained in, among other things, the report? The alternative's motion for a resolution and the government's proposal, so we made a comprehensive report at the end of the committee on setting up a data-ethical council?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153547	Well, I'm not gonna stand here and reject that. I think that we need to take this up during our committee's proceedings to find out how best to deal with it, even when we find ourselves in a situation where the government has indicated that there is now a data-ethical council. I also have questions, of course, as to when it will be, and so on, and I think that we should have the opportunity to ask the Minister about this when we have worked on it in committee. So it is not because I do not have my head full of questions too. I certainly do, but I do think it is a positive announcement from the government that they have seen the writing on the wall, because so much I would like to admit to the rapporteur of the Alternative, namely that this debate, which has been about a data-ethical council through, at least in the last year, in particular, also, I think, has helped push the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153643	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153644	Well, don't get me wrong. I also think it is very, very positive, and I have also expressed this to the Minister, that the government is making a proposal here now that is just not very concrete in it. So I very much hope, because now Mrs Karin Gaardsted says that she will not deny that you will be included in a report, but precisely in order to maintain the focus and maintain some of the wishes we could agree on are important in relation to a data-ethical council that the Social Democratic Party will consider being part of a possible report. It also depends, of course, on what the debate leads to today, but I very much hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153720	Well, when I say I'm not going to deny it, it also means that I'm open to discussing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153730	We thank Mrs Karin Gaardsted and move on to Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025153740	Thank you. The alternative here, with the motion for a resolution, is that a data-ethical council should be set up. I do not think anyone can doubt that data in these years is something we are discussing very much and that is going to fill much more than it is doing today, especially with the technological developments that are taking place in these years and which are going to turn upside down a lot of things. That's why it makes sense for us to discuss this often. In my opinion, the collection and storage and use of citizens' data is very much a political issue which must be decided by politicians because it will have such far-reaching consequences if data is used incorrectly or if security is not in order, or indeed if we collect too little. So whatever you do, you want to put yourself in some dilemmas, and that is political dilemmas. I can then understand that since the proposal was put forward here, the government will also have a data-ethical advice, and that is not because I have to stand and pour proposals down the board, because I have the intention of waiting to see what the government is making of proposals when it becomes a little more concrete. However, I would like to quote a former prime minister when it comes to advice and advice, because it probably reflects very well how I feel about advice and advice and I quote: "We do not need experts and taste judges to decide on our behalf. In recent years, a true wilderness of government councils and boards and institutions has been shot up everywhere. Many of them have developed into state-authorized taste judges who determine what is good and right in various areas. There are tendencies towards an expert tyranny which risks suppressing the free public debate. The people should not put up with raised fingernails from so-called experts who think they know best. Experts can be good enough to convey actual knowledge. But when we have to make personal choices, we are all experts. The government will remove superfluous advice and boards and institutions. It will be a very comprehensive reorganisation. We will clean up this middle layer, which braves resources and distracts attention from the essentials. ▪ The quote is from the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen's New Year's speech on 1 January 2002, and I really think it is very appropriate for how I feel about advice and mention today. I think there is too much expert power, too many wise people who think too much about something they do not understand straight out of the bag and think it should form the basis for the debate. I am very concerned about in general the wildness that I feel has been shot up by advice and boards. I believe that the question of data is a political issue, and that is why it is we who, in the public debate, must weigh up the dilemmas that may exist, and then the voters must either reward or punish for the choices we make. So I do not have my arms above my head, either in relation to the alternative's proposal or in relation to the government's proposal, but of course we accept what comes with an open mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154056	There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154100	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I think we can all remember the quote I can at least personally, and what I find interesting in that quotation, and it was also included in the part of the quote that Mr. Peter Kofod read out, is: "But when it comes to making personal choices, we are all experts. What this Data-Ethical Council is supposed to do is to inform and advise us as citizens so that we can make exactly the personal choices. For what we are currently doing is transferring the management of all data to public authorities, and private business companies also have the opportunity to use our data on a very, very large scale, without you being able to do so much about it as a citizen. So I hope that the Danish People's Party will consider this very carefully. I know that the Danish People's Party will of course always do so when the government makes its proposal at some point, because I think it is crucial if you are to have a people who are safe and trusting, especially with the public authorities, that they also know what is going on and what is really happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154213	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154215	As such, I do not disagree with what has been said and I can guarantee that we will consider this very carefully. I think we should give the government the time it should now have to make its move to this, and then we take it from there. However, I do not disagree at all that this is going to fill much more than it is doing today and that there are a lot of dilemmas both in terms of how public authorities are going to deal with this issue and perhaps even more how private companies are going to deal with these issues. Yeah, I think that's gonna fill up a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154250	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154253	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur. I would just like to make one comment again, because I was a little surprised by the rapporteur's speech. Because I had actually thought that the Danish People's Party would be positive about this, not least in the light of our excellent cooperation in connection with the comments we have jointly made on data protection legislation, and I think this is almost an extension of the discussions we have had on data protection legislation. So, yes, it was just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154323	I am just not entirely convinced that a new data-ethical advice is exactly the solution that is the right one. Of course we will look at that, so what does the government bring? Now this is the alternative's proposal, and I have such respect for making a proposal and saying that this is our path. I'm just not necessarily quite sure that's exactly the way that's right. Now we'll see, we'll give it some time and see what the government has in the bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154351	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154355	It is just a question to the rapporteur about this with various experts, and I also agree that there may be differences in the quality of various experts. However, I would like to say that precisely in this area of IT, I think that far along the way we are lagging behind in the Folketing in relation to the developments that are out there, and I think it is good and wise to get some people from outside to join in yelling at the developments that are going very fast in the field of technology. I very much agree that we should not give up political responsibility in any way. It has to be here, and I think that some parties in the Folketing should take this much more seriously than they do. However, does the rapporteur not think that it is very wise to have experts who are, as it were, very advanced in their shoes and who are working on this every day, who can also advise in some areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154451	Yes, but it is also my impression that we have many experts in this area. If you discuss this topic, you can hardly open your twitter account or Facebook or the news media before the experts, either those who are trained in some knowledge or who have an interest in it, whether it is private or job-related, are almost queuing to express themselves on various dilemmas and boundaries. So it is not my impression that we are dry for experts. I think that Danish journalists generally have a very easy way of finding someone to call if you lack some point of view in a matter relating to data. So I don't think we have a shortage of that as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154535	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154537	No, maybe not in public, I think. In fact, however, I am speaking quite specifically about the fact that I think that the IT policy here at Christiansborg takes up too little time in our discussions, and I also think that the protection of citizens' data is so insanely central an area that it should be more pervading all the decisions we are making. There I see that this could be a step that could take us a little further in that direction. I agree that there are many other things that need to be done, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's reflection on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154615	I agree with that. Then I think I understand better. I agree that the discussion of data, the discussion of technology, the development of both, what you can and what technology offers opportunities should be more natural. I think that is very much the responsibility of the parties, but I also believe that it is because it often sneaks into all sorts of areas, and then it may not be central in one place as many other rapporteurs would be, or many other political areas would be. However, I very much believe that it is a political responsibility, yes, and it is the responsibility of the parties to ensure that this responsibility is taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154651	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154702	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am not only speaking on behalf of the Left but also on behalf of Mr Seligman. Naser Khader and the Conservative People's Party. It is the case that the level of activity at Christiansborg is difficult to compete with too small parties with few members of parliament, so you have to be in many places at once, and that is why Mr. Naser Khader asked me to address his remarks as well. But they won't be much longer because of this, because this is very easy to comment on. There is no doubt that the debate on this subject, the protection of personal data, is extremely important. As has already been said, we are digital frontrunners here in Denmark, and this must also be seen in the protection of personal data here. But it is important to make it clear that the government is already focusing on this debate. The Government, under the auspices of the Disruption Council, has set up an expert group on the subject and, as far as I am aware, the expert group has discussed the dilemmas, the issues raised by the new technology. Against this backdrop, a real Data-Ethical Council should be set up, as I understand it, and that is actually what the Alternative is asking for in its motion for a resolution. So the comments made by the Left will be that we are allowing the government to take the lead in this area and, although we agree with the principle of the proposal, we are voting against it, but we are in favour of the idea behind it, and that is what is now being translated into a real data-ethical council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154846	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025154901	I think this question of data ethics is extremely important because it is basically about the framework for our privacy and our digital behavior and how our personal data is shared and used. This is something that is already very important, and it is something that will also fill a great deal more in the years to come. And, as I said before, I have an experience that we, from the political level, are lagging behind in getting enough done in relation to the data-ethical. And in a large number of areas, I think we have also seen in recent years that there is a real tendency to compromise simply on data ethics, a very great eagerness to share citizens' data, to monitor citizens and others. That is why I think it is very good that the alternative has tabled this motion for a resolution. From the side of the Enhedslisten we support it very warmly. And I'm also very happy that what we saw here the other day is part of the government's digitalization game that you wanted this data-ethical council. I think that is extremely positive and I hope that we can get this work started as soon as possible. As I said before, we in the Enhedslisten would also very much like to be involved in the discussions on how we can structure it. Because it is also essential to look at how we get the best structure in this, so that we still ensure that the political responsibility lies in the Folketing and it will not be such an opportunity to outsource some decisions, but rather that it will be a council that can be involved, one can say that raising the level of the debates we have and helping to be frontrunners in order to draw attention to issues. That is the role I would very much like it to have. There are some very, very large themes, one might say we are going to deal with. One of the things people know the most about, one of the things you most hear is that with self-propelled cars and robots in hospitals and stuff like that. But it may also be to relate to how we do when there is more and more use of algorithms, such as: discriminates against gender or other factors. I think that, as politicians and, incidentally, as public authorities, in other words states, municipalities and regions, we have a special responsibility to take the lead and become more effective in the field of data-ethics here. So I think it's very positive if we can get this advice up. Finally, I would like to say that I think that we also need to look at the structures around it. The proposal here says that a parliamentary committee can be attached. It makes good sense to do so, as it does with the Ethical Council. I think we also need to have a real IT committee in the Folketing. I find it very, very problematic that, as an IT rapporteur, we are wandering around the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and all sorts of places where these problems are being dealt with. I think there is a need to gather knowledge in a better way. In the same way, we also want an IT ministry from the Enhedslisten. I hope this can be set aside for all parties to discuss how we can both have this creation of a data-ethical council shot off very well and how to make such a report in committee we support it too. I think it would be really nice for us to have it on paper as well. However, there is also the wider issue of some backlog that I think we have in relation to a number of areas that are about better data protection. We still have to follow up on some things that we have discussed in the past and get it kicked to the finish line. So I also hope that we can do this in the wake of the new digitisation strategy, because it is absolutely crucial that, when the public has so much data about citizens, citizens must also be able to trust that they are being treated properly. The last thing I wanted to say was that I should say to the Radical Left that, unfortunately, they could not be here today. You also think that this is a very positive proposal. There are some things about the concrete form that they do not want to get quite firm on now, so they want to go with open arms, or whatever it is called, into the negotiations, but are positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155353	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155407	Thank you. I would actually like to start by recognising Mrs Josephine Fock, who is one of the authors of this motion for a resolution, for her real commitment to the question of data security and ethics. Now, of course, we have voted earlier today on Mrs Josephine Fock's replacement here in the Danish Parliament, because she has been given new work and congratulations on that, and that is why I think it is appropriate to thank you from the floor of the Danish Parliament for such, in person as well, good conversations on the question of data security and ethics. Thank you. Then I thought it was a funny remark, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Kofod now I can't see him having this with advice and advice. In fact, I agree with some of it, as Mr. Peter Kofod said about council and board, but it all depends on what the purpose is for setting up a council or board. Because it is true that if you set up a council or a board for the purpose that there is something you would like to be free to decide on, i.e. such a jelly jar or jam jar board, it is not a good idea. Well, if it's just because there's something you don't want to do, then it's not so smart. But if it is something you reduce because there is something you want to do, then it can actually be a really good idea. When it comes to the question of data ethics, at least that is something we in the Liberal Alliance would like to put on the agenda. The whole digitalization, all this about us living our lives more and more digitally, leaves us as legislators with a lot of different dilemmas when it comes to data ethics, and I think that is the only way we stand in the infancy of that. So I think it is an issue that is extremely well suited to precisely a council because there is something we would actually like to put on the agenda and work on. So we agree with the intention behind this motion for a resolution. Now a little bit has been overtaken by a rapid government which has already indicated that this will be done. That is why I believe that, with regard to the last proposal on today's agenda, we have a united Parliament, an almost unanimous Parliament, which thinks this is a good idea. And it may also be very good for Mrs Josephine Fock to end with a question which I know has been very close to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155641	There is just one question from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155644	Thank you for that. Maybe that's more of a comment. I would like to thank you for those nice words and just above what I think it is called in Nudansk. In any case, thank you for your cooperation, and I fully agree that we have had some really good discussions on data security and ethics, and I know that this is also very much at the heart of the Liberal Alliance, as is the case with the alternative. Perhaps, however, a small specific question: could there be an idea in making a joint account of this? What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155712	I have no objection to this being done in the Committee on Legal Affairs. That depends, of course, on what the report says. You have to agree on that, of course. But, as I see it, we have exactly the same intention, exactly the same interest in this area. So I'm not going to deny that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155731	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155733	Thank you. And then I would like to give the baton to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance and make sure that this data-ethical advice comes into being and it will not be something that is being shot out. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155747-2	In any case, I would say that this is not the way it will be. Peter Kofod re-enters the hall and the process of setting up a data-ethical council is put in a council or board, which then acts as a jam jar. Because, as I said before, this is actually something we really want. And that is why, of course, it is something that is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155808	As I see it, there are no further brief comments. I would like to thank the rapporteur and I can see that this is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025155838	Thank you for the floor and thank you very much for the debate on our motion for a resolution on the setting up of a data-ethical council. What lies in our motion for a resolution is just so that the marvelous viewers out there really know what we are talking about, is that a new independent council is being set up, which we call data-ethical advice, to deal with advice and information on ethical issues in relation to the developments taking place in the field of data. The advice must be directed primarily at the Folketing, the government and public authorities, while the information work must be directed towards society and citizens. And the purpose of the data-ethical advice is to support that in Denmark you can have a continuous, objective and enlightened public debate on all the data-ethical questions and dilemmas that arise when public authorities and private companies and organisations etc. collect and use citizens' data. The Council is therefore required, inter alia, to: address the ethical issues raised by the collection, registration, transmission and re-use of citizens' personal data and data. I would like to thank all the parties. I would like to thank the Social Democrats for saying that they have sympathy for our resolution. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party, although they were not so positive, but nevertheless were positive in that it is an issue that is important to deal with. Then it is not certain that in the Danish People's Party's optics it should be a council, but that it is an important issue. So thank you for that. I would also like to thank the Left, who, although they are voting against, say that they agree with the intention of doing so. Thank you to the Enhedslisten, which warmly supports it, and also spoke on behalf of the Radicals, who are in favour. And thank you to the Liberal Alliance for being so positive about it too. After all, it is nice to be allowed to give your last rapporteur's speech up here, and then we have virtually a unanimous Parliament, so I am very grateful for that. And thanks to the government for overtaking the alternative inside. I think this is a bit cool, both by the government, but also by the alternative, in other words that we could manage to get the government to come here two days ago and, in its digital game, say so clearly that the government also wants to set up a data-ethical council. I think that is very positive, and I would just like to read out what the government is actually proposing, because I think it is actually a very good text. The government will set up a Dataetic Council which will, among other things, provide recommendations for and contribute to a continuous and enlightened public debate on the data-ethical issues and dilemmas, including that we in Denmark navigate wisely between new opportunities and challenges. I think that is really, really well worded, because that is exactly the dilemma we are faced with all the time: it is new opportunities, endless new opportunities that lie out there, but how do we avoid that in all the new opportunities we are going to lose ourselves on the floor, I was just about to say, and are going to implement some things that may have incalculable consequences, because we did not manage to think about before implementing them? So I think that is really positive. I just hope that all the rapporteurs in here will take over the torch in order to ensure that we get started quickly, and I think it is a good thing that the recommendations will be in November. And then, of course, I hope that the government will work very quickly afterwards, and I hope that all parties will of course be invited to a discussion on how to imagine it. Because, as Enhedslisten also mentioned, we have proposed precisely in our motion for a resolution that the data-ethics council should be connected to a special parliamentary committee to discuss these things. And we also agree in the alternative that there should be an IT policy committee in here. I think that over the last year we have had a number of political issues which show that we need to have something that we may not have to call advice, but what we can all agree on now is that we need to take seriously the new opportunities, but also the problems that are unfolding in relation to data ethics in Denmark. It is difficult for us politicians to navigate in the whole new world of opportunities and challenges, as I will allow myself to call the data revolution. Because it's a data revolution, it's completely new stuff. Well, there are new things happening tomorrow that we can't imagine today. Therefore, it is important for the Alternative that a data-ethical advice dresses us up better to take the important decisions on how we as a country will use the huge amount of data we have on every Dane, while at the same time protecting the individual's right to privacy and avoiding using data for unethical purposes. In our motion for a resolution, we have made a suggestion as to what such a data-ethical advice might look like. We have taken very direct inspiration from the Ethical Council, in terms of how it is built and how people are appointed etc. to sit on such advice. The details of this are not crucial for us. They have not been at any time, so exactly how such a counsel is to be built and arranged we are completely open to it. The most important thing for us is to ensure a professionally strong data-ethical advice that can contribute to a continuous, objective and enlightened public debate and that has the muscles to challenge companies and us politicians when it becomes necessary, for example when we get to stare too blindly at the positive effects of data utilization, but forget ethics and the negative effects. It is also important to us that we write in the proposal that it will also be laity people who will be on such a council, so that it is a very wide range of people who are appointed for this. After all, the problem of data problems applies both to the public and to the private sector. For example, we believe it is important that we maintain a continuous political discussion on how and when the public should collect data, share data, collate and re-use data on citizens for new purposes. We must also ensure the professional basis for the political discussions on, for example, the profiling of citizens, as well as when we will allow data to be passed on to the private sector for commercial purposes. Because it is important for us to think carefully before allowing private individuals to benefit from the data provided by citizens in public confidence. Finally, I would like to make it clear once again that it is important for us to get started as soon as possible, so I hope that as soon as these recommendations lie, the Minister will convene us all so that we can have a discussion. I'm afraid it will be without me, but I'm sure my replacement will do just as well. The data revolution is too full to blow out, and we are not prepared for it at all, I believe, as it is now. So thank you very much for a good debate, and thank you for this time. I'll see you out there in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025160603	Before that, however, we need to make one brief comment. It's from Peter Kofod, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025160609	Thank you. I forgot something in my rapporteur's speech, and that was to acknowledge the rapporteur for his last speech in here. I think it is quite appropriate to wish you good luck with the new job. I think that's gonna be really exciting. And thank you for your excellent cooperation with the Legal Rapporteur of the Alternative. So all good wins from here. It may be that this proposal will not be adopted, but there will be so many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025160632	I think there are many who agree with that thank you. Josephine Fock (ALT) Thank you so much!). As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181025160646	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 26 October 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
