ParlaMint-DK_20180206130029	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Uffe Elbæk (ALT) and Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT): Request no. F 21 (What does the Prime Minister think it takes to restore citizens' confidence in the elected representatives at Christiansborg and increase the political and democratic commitment of the people?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130055	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130129	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130158	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130227	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130247	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (ALT), elected by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A is then voted on [Proposal for a law amending the law on aliens]. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (DF). Yes, it has probably been discovered that one board has broken, but we are aware of it from up here, and I hope that everyone can see the other board. The vote is over. In favour of 22 (DF), against 79 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 3 is rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 by the same minority, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (DF). The vote is over. In favour of 22 (DF), against 79 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 4 are rejected. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners]. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (DF). The vote is over. In favour of 22 (DF), against 79 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 6 has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130514	I'll wait until everyone gets into the hall. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130630	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130646	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130714	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-5, elected by a majority, the committee with the exception of EL? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130734	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130807	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130843	The debate is open. It's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206130910	Thank you for the floor. We are now discussing a resolution which will require the government to apologise to former residents of the 19 orphanages described in the Godhavn report of 2011. Generally speaking, I look forward to discussing motions for resolutions. I think it's a party to get up on Parliament's platform and have a really good debate. But this one today is harder because it is on a backdrop that is so infinitely sad that it is quite, quite difficult not to be sad even when you walk up here. I can also see that there is a serious matter in the Chamber. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for allowing us to have the debate and the discussion. The proposers refer to the 2011 Godhavn report, which is, after all, just one of several thorough reports on the past in the social field that have been prepared in recent years, and common to the reports is that they have provided us with a knowledge that is at the same time very, very unpleasant and, at the same time, very important. The Godhavn report tells of the upbringing of children in 19 orphanages, many of which have been extremely devastating and extremely painful. Some have grown up in conditions which we find totally unacceptable in today's spectacles. But even if it is in every way creepy reading, reports such as the Godhavn report and the "Applied in History" contribute with a knowledge to ensure that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past, because it goes without saying that we must do everything in our power to ensure that other children and young people do not end up in the same vulnerable situation, and we must, of course, ensure that the children and young people we as a society have to deal with receive the best help and support to move forward in life in a good way. No matter how terrible we think conditions were in these orphanages, it is also important to remember that this happened in another time. It was a time with a different view of exposed children. Yes, it was in a time of a completely different view of people. Society was organized differently, and it was some other standards that prevailed. It was a time when both parents and teachers could legally beat children, to name but one example. It can be difficult to understand today, when this kind of thing is of course by no means acceptable. That is why I do not believe that the government can accept responsibility for the way in which society was set up at that time or for human vision so many years ago. It is not a defence of what has happened. On the contrary, it is a recognition that the view of exposed children at that time was different and a vision for which we can hardly take responsibility today. Let us be honest: history will not be changed by an apology; history will still be the same and equally painful and equally terrible. In this context, I would also like to mention, as a small aside, that changing governments have had the same line in this matter, both ministers from the V, K, the Radical Left, the SF and S. An apology makes the best sense when it comes from the wrongdoer or those who have committed a wrong. If you apologise on behalf of others, there is a risk that an apology will become empty and, although the idea behind the resolution is sympathetic and we all agree that the view of human beings and the view of children in that time is by no means acceptable, I believe in principle that governments should refrain from apologising on behalf of others. That is the government's position. In Denmark it is the courts that decide whether the state has a legal responsibility in specific cases, and it also means that neither myself, the government nor the Folketing should judge such matters. I think that makes sense. It is therefore also gratifying that the limitation period in such cases will now be abolished, because this means that people such as those described in the Godhavn report have the opportunity to seek legal redress. Finally, I would like to make it clear that there is no doubt that the conditions in some of the orphanages described in the Godhavn report are quite unacceptable from the point of view of today's spectacles. It is therefore also a focus for the government and it has also been for previous governments that we learn from the mistakes made in the past. It is also gratifying that a great deal has happened since then in the social field and that today there is a completely different focus on children's rights and well-being. In recent times, for example, the notification rules have been tightened up, which helps us to identify more quickly those children who need special support. Furthermore, a comprehensive Parliament has, of course, adopted a supervisory reform so that in 2014 we were given very strict supervision of institutions and placement sites. These are just two of many examples of actions aimed at improving the conditions of vulnerable children and young people. The Godhavn report tells of some very tragic fates and a story that unfortunately we cannot change. That is why an apology will not change what has happened either. On the other hand, the government can today work to improve support and prospects for vulnerable children and young people, and this is the clear focus of the government. The fact that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution is not surprising.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131511	Thank you. There are some comments or questions. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131517	Thank you. Just so that we don't have to end up in something like that that you didn't, and then we don't, and all that, I just want to say from the start that I thought it was wrong that Nyrup didn't do it; I thought it was wrong that Fogh didn't do it; I thought it was wrong that Løkke didn't do it; I thought it was wrong that Helle didn't do it; and I think it's wrong that Løkke didn't do it now. So no matter who's been sitting, you should have apologized for this. It's just like that, so we've made it clear. Then I would just like to ask the Minister if the Minister thinks that it was okay to commit sexual abuse with the glasses of the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131548	We do not need to get into a major controversy, but the fact is that until recently, S only shared the attitude of changing governments and has therefore only recently changed its position. Of course, it has to be said that what happened at the time was not legal and that it was completely unacceptable, and I do not know how you felt when you read the report, but I felt physically ill. It's hard, hard reading, it's hard, hard diet. It is therefore clear that what we can then use it constructively and positively is to have a forward-looking discussion on how to ensure better conditions for today's young people. Those for whom we have a responsibility today are today's young people, and that is where they act. to strengthen their rights, to ensure that we take good and proper care of them. But an apology is difficult, I acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131651	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131653	It simply sounded as if the Minister did not hear at all what I was asking. So I'm gonna try one more time: does the Minister think that when these things were going on, it was okay? Was it okay with the glasses of the day to commit sexual assault on children?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131710	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131712	I answered that very clearly: No, of course it was not okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131715	Thank you. And then it's sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131719	Thank you for that admission. It also included one of the Minister's predecessors, Mrs Karen Ellemann, the last time we discussed this in the Chamber. She acknowledged that the abuses described in the Godhavn report were also illegal at the time. And that is an important point, because what the proposal is about is that the state and then it is the government, on behalf of the state, assuming responsibility for the absence of intervention and even for state institutions. That's what the apology is all about. I think the Minister will unfortunately refuse to acknowledge that there is that connection, but then I have to ask the Minister something else. The minister said an apology wouldn't relieve anything. Can the Minister then explain to me why it has been so important for the good-port boys to have that excuse? Don't you think it's supposed to be because they're experiencing that it would relieve something? And could the Minister then try to imagine what such relief is like when someone apologises on behalf of the state? Can the Minister imagine what the relief is?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131837	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206131839	I am fully aware, as well as aware, that the good-port boys would like an apology. I think that has actually been discussed here many times. What is my perspective, the way I see it, is that it will not make that pain go away. The memories, the flashbacks, the whole experience from then do not go away with an apology. And that is why what we can use the various reports that have been prepared is precisely to counter the fact that it is ever allowed to happen again, that there are children and young people who are being let down in the same way. After all, we see cases that come up in the press every now and then, with children who really are being let down, and where a number of tightenings have been made in the legislation in recent years starting from 2013, 2014 onwards. And that's really, really good tightening up. But to think that you can make anything go away, I'll be careful. And then there is the difference between an apology and legal responsibility. Legal liability can then be verified by the retroactive removal of these limitation periods.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132002	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132008	I can hear that, despite the fact that she is deeply concerned about the matter, the Minister, and I am of course pleased about that, and I believe that the Minister is not at all aware of what this is all about when the godhavn boys ask for an apology. It is true that the terrible experiences they have experienced never go away, and they are in those people forever. But there is one thing we can do away with, and it is the feeling of shame and complicity of those people who are the victims of violence: why did I not do something about it? Why didn't I fight it? We can lift that away by the state giving an apology, and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132058	But shame and complicity don't go away. I think it would be very naive to imagine that that shame and feeling will disappear. There's nothing that can take those memories away. There's nothing that can make that past right. And I think that if we imagine it, we're gonna stick our eyes in people's eyes. I admit that this is quite, quite difficult, but I think that when we look at what is purely responsible, we now see an improvement. Because we actually see that this limitation period can now be removed retroactively. I admit that it will be really, really difficult to get those cases, which are very old, tested, I do not think there is any doubt about that. But it is important to give them the opportunity to be tested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132156	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132201	At home with us and I think that's how it was with most families when I was a child, my father always forced us to apologize if we had done something unfair, for example. To our little siblings, and we had to sit across from each other when we did. I was a big brother, so it was often me who had done something bad. For whoever had done the assault, it was a harder punishment than if I had to work 14 days to fix the window that was broken or whatever the hell it could be. Here it is the state that should sit against the people who have been subjected to an attack. And we can imagine that ourselves. I would say to the Minister that the Minister should try to think about it if she had herself been subjected to a really unpleasant attack of some kind, for example. sexually, that is to say, whether it is the trial that judges the person who committed the attack or whether that is the excuse that the judiciary is currently working on in mediation situations and such things as would create a mildening. Should we not do all we can and most would say that a small thing for the state is to apologize? Should we not do all we can to alleviate the past of these good-port boys in the institutions which were the State and which were also illegal at the time? Should we not use the non-legal measures we can, and is not the excuse perhaps the easiest thing for the state to choose, because one knows that it has a very, very important meaning for the individual?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132338	But it is not the case that an apology would mean that history would then change. It'll still be the same memories, it'll still be the same nightmares. I really think, to be quite honest, that the fact that we have so often a discussion in which we try to put a group in perspective, that now there is an excuse, can almost be even worse. Changing ministers from SF, S, Radical Left, Conservative and Left have refused to give an apology. That is why I think we should just consider with ourselves what the effect is, that we have such a discussion so often. And it is not because I call on somebody not to table the motions for resolutions that they wish to table, I do not do so in any way, because all the resolutions that we want to submit can be put forward, but it can also be important that we get so often the discussion about an apology that successive ministers from a number of different parties have so agreed not to give.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132453	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132455	I think it is now the opposite. I have at least met a few of the good-port boys who say how good it is that we can feel that more and more people think this is beating unfairly and that at least we have the right to an apology. And you're allowed to get smarter. We have become wiser in our social system. We've changed the way we treat each other. We've become wiser in the judicial system. That's another way we treat each other. And we're using other methods today to give the victim some better opportunities. I find it very, very difficult to understand that it has to be so long before the state, that is. The government can understand that. Now the Social Democracy has changed its attitude, fine. When are the other parties taking the necessary steps, because it is a good and proper way of treating the victim as a start to apologize on behalf of the state. That is what I can do at the moment. Let me do it. Why is it so hard? I could understand if it was some old, stubborn men whose honor was trampled too close. But we are dealing with dynamic ministers who can apologize on behalf of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132559	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132601	Well, I'm actually very much in agreement with sir. Christian Juhl in that it is precisely about getting smarter and also about acting on the knowledge that you learn more about. That means we've made the assault package. This means, of course, that a maximum period of 24 hours must be allowed from the date of receipt of a notification in a municipality before that notification has been responded to. After all, it came from the fact that there were too many cases in which we could see that there was insufficient response. We have set aside 24 million this autumn. kr. to strengthen children's rights simply because there is a pool of bets that agrees that this is important, because children deserve to be heard. So with the package of attacks, the whole package of children and the whole way they have worked on it, it is precisely aimed at preventing such abuses from taking place. And with that, you can use the past actively to learn from it and to improve the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132703	Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132707	I think that there is something such a patronizing in the way the Minister sort of is mastering whether this will help the victims or not. Well, it's true that it won't change history. But that's gonna change something for the victims who've been hit by this. We are also imprisoning people and punishing people, even if that does not change the fact that a crime has been committed and does not remove the injustice that has happened. But it is because it has a meaning, among other things. for those who have been the victims of a crime. So my question is really just: does it not make an impression on the Minister when the good-port boys themselves and others who have been subjected to the same abuse have struggled over and over and over for many years, while, unfortunately, several of them have fallen away, have fought to get this excuse? It is not about money; it is about recognising that they were subjected to an attack and about the excuse of the authority, that is, the state, which was responsible for the abuses. Does it not impress the Minister that for so many years there has been such a persistent desire for this from the people who are at the centre of it, namely those who were abandoned?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132832	Yes, of course it makes an impression. I think you should be a very, very emotional person... patronizing, or whatever it was, I haven't been called many times if not the whole discussion about the goodport boys makes an impression. Of course it does. But I think we just have to be honest and say that there are different views on how to deal with the reports that have been made. For me, it is about learning from the atrocities that took place at Godhavn's home and the other homes, and then organizing our social policy today so that it will not happen again and that there will be no children who will thus be abandoned and mutilated and humiliated. And then there are some for whom it is important to hold onto a past and that an apology should be given. I recognise that difference, and I also recognise that this debate is extremely difficult to face.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132944	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206132948	It's not a either or. I mean, it's really good that you take action to prevent this happening again, and I think everyone agrees on that. But that does not prevent us from listening to those who were the victims then and their desire for an apology. It's not a either or. This isn't about holding onto a past. What many of these older men are saying now is that this was a way to move on from the past and put this behind them. That is why it is not about sticking to the past; it is about the opposite. Then I would just like to know whether the Minister is aware of some of the experience gained in other countries that a state apologises. That is in relation, for example, to the situation in the United Kingdom. indigenous people and the way their children were treated in New Zealand, and there are many other places. Have not the experiences in which it actually had an impact made an impression on the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133041	Yes, please. There is a great deal of excessive speaking time all the way through from everyone, so I think we should think about that in the further debate, and that also applies to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133052	It has been noted that I am sorry, President. Then maybe it'll be a little polemical about the patronizing. Then it sounds like I don't want to listen to the goodport boys. It's all wrong, you know. What is merely problematic is that there are different solutions. And I believe that it is extremely difficult as a government to take responsibility for what has happened in the past. History won't change. Pelle Dragsted just said.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133125	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133128	I agree with the Minister that this does not just go away. It doesn't do that. There is no quick fix or magic wand that can just erase the experiences these people have experienced in the past. But I have a very, very simple and very direct question: does the Minister recognise that there is an opportunity that an apology would alleviate the inner pain that those people have in view of what they have been subjected to?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133200	It may be for some people I wouldn't even want to stand here and claim otherwise. What is indeed the challenge is that it is very difficult as a government to apologise for incidents that have occurred before Mr. Torsten Gejl and myself were born. There was a completely different view of man, it was a completely different time. It is absolutely terrible what happened, but it is also difficult to put what happened on the scale of the time to how we view it with today's standards. This is a very, very difficult discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133239	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133242	And at the same time, it's so simple. A single word said from the platform that it could so far be now will probably, at least in the case of those who have been abused, be able to relieve really, very much. In other words, it would be a hallmark for the Minister of Social Affairs who goes in and uses the opportunity that one has as a minister to bring some of that pain to an end. Why don't the Minister try his luck? It can hardly create a bad situation to try to see if an apology could not give the effect that we all believe and hope for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133325	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133326	It's not like you can just try your luck. It is therefore important to be responsible as a minister, and I just have to say that changing governments, with a number of different social ministers from many different parties, have not been able to apologise for this. This does not mean that I do not recognise that there may be some that an apology can relieve. But what I'm holding on to is that it doesn't make the story go away. It doesn't make the memories pale, it doesn't make the atrocities fade it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133410	Thank you for that and then there are no more questions for the Minister. Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206133428	There are such debates that continue to appear. Then you have some of the stones removed, and then you should have moved on. In fact, I thought that abolishing limitation periods would be what allowed the state to apologize. Well, I just thought so, because I have heard the system, even when we have had the power of government ourselves, respond to a call for a state excuse to be made. And it has typically been the case that things are not going at all, and there are limitation periods and compensations there are many things in the way. That is typically what has come from the official work when you have liked to take it up when you have had the power of government. And there are no more things there, because we will have those things in place; that is what we shall vote on Thursday of this week. It is just before one should take such a week when we get the power of government ourselves at a time when we are pretending we are not going to do it, just to hear what the system's answer to that would be now. Because I simply cannot think of a single system argument against giving the official apologies now. I have never been able to understand it politically; I simply have not been able to understand it. And we must take that on our own cloak, because it is absolutely right, as the Minister says, that this is a position we have been given in the Social Democratic Party after Mette Frederiksen became president of the party. She was one of those who lifted this case into her time as social rapporteur. I never understood that this was supposed to be so difficult politically, but now I do not think there is any system response to it anymore. So I'm a little puzzled. What we are talking about is simply children who have been abused. Well, we're talking about children who have been abused. I fully understand that at some point it was allowed to beat children at school. But child abuse has not been permitted. Sexual abuse of children has not been permitted. It has not been allowed to talk to children in the context of the supervision carried out as a state authority. Those things have never been allowed, and that means that you failed your responsibility. We can go back and see what the letter of the law said then, and I think that is like one part of it. I have no problem with saying that on those points where crystal-clear breaches have been committed, what the authorities should have done, yes, there we can of course go in and apologize for what has happened, even if it is further back in history. So we have to remember that the Viking Age is not such a thing. Well, sometimes we talk about history like that. That is not what we are talking about here. We are talking about people walking around on sidewalks and on streets and streets, who are part of our society and are still living and who are still living with the scars it gave on the soul then. So it is not so more historic than that it is things that are present every fucking day for the people we are talking about. Then I would say in relation to what the Minister says that it makes no sense in relation to the victims to apologise: I would be extremely careful to stand and make myself wise in the way the Minister does. That's one of them. Therefore, in certain criminal proceedings we ask the victims whether they would like to meet the attacker. That's because it means far more to too many victims to look the perpetrator in the eye and hear him say: It was wrong what I did to you, I'm sorry. That means more than the punishment that the judicial system has meted out. Yet these are things that the bourgeois government itself has helped to introduce. Well, I fully agree that Conservatives initially, when we started talking about this kind of thing, thought it was rather hippie-like to introduce this kind of thing into our legal system, but that is something we have come across, and that was many years ago. I think it's been decades since the Conservative People's Party agreed that it might be a very good idea for the victim to meet with the perpetrator because the victim gets the excuse that makes the healing process easier. When we then even talk about children then well, try to hear: For example, all divorce children in Denmark think it's their fault that Mom and Dad got divorced. Because when you see the world at children's height, the whole world turns around the child, which means that the child assumes responsibility for everything between heaven and earth. If you commit a sexual assault on a child, or if you expose a child to systematic violence, that child will typically think that it is the child's own fault. That's how most people react. After all, it is a fairly basic part of our entire understanding and knowledge of what it is to be subjected to sexual abuse or violence when you are a child. That is why I think it is somewhat cauliflower-hawk when the minister stands up here and says that it should not have any meaning, that it does not change anything, and that those feelings and those experiences will still be there. No, that's kind of the whole point: when it's children who have been exposed to these things, it's actually an extremely good idea for someone to go in and assume responsibility, someone to go in and say, "There were mistakes, we should have done this or that, and the reason this happened to you is that we didn't do it. The fact that someone takes responsibility means so much to the healing process. That's why we're here, too. have heard the godhavnsboys say that everything about economics and what you can get in compensation is completely subordinate. That's not what this is all about. For the goodport boys, it is about getting an apology and that someone is taking responsibility because it is an important part of healing. Well, and I look forward to getting government power. Then we can stop taking these conversations in the Parliamentary Chamber one time after another and instead get an apology finally given.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134003	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134018	After all, one can always discuss and assess within one's party when to table a motion for a resolution, when it is a good time to do so. Sometimes you can also think that this may be the wrong time to do so. Of course, I do not have to say that this is a very wrong time to do so, because I can already sense that there are many feelings going on in relation to this. It is, of course, a proposal that we have discussed quite a short time ago. It was then with some other proposers. We also know that a ruling has been handed down by the Østre Landsret in connection with this and, above all, there have been some very long and intense discussions on the legislative proposal which has also been mentioned earlier, namely L 31 on limitation periods. After all, it is a bill that has been discussed in the Ministry of Justice and with the legal rapporteurs, and both some of the proposers and myself from the Danish People's Party as social rapporteur have tried to get very involved in it and in having a look at how we could have a different system in relation to the limitation periods. Because that's exactly where we can go and do something. In fact, as has also been mentioned, in a few days we will have to deal with that proposal in a third way, and then we will have to change the situation of some people who have been subjected to something that most of us have no imagination whatsoever in terms of both physical and psychological violations and abuses. Now you can go take a lawsuit. I also fully agree with the issue of compensations and so on, but that is perhaps the smallest part of it. It's more the fact that you can get your case tried in a court of law. I am quite sure that there is a large open wound on the part of those involved who have been subjected to violations. This also applies to those who have been placed at Godhavn and regardless of when the violations have taken place. I am also quite sure that it will never heal, but I also believe that if you keep picking the wound, there will be no healing process at all. And what the Danish People's Party really wants is for us to make sure that this healing process gets under way, and I think that we have just done that on the basis of what we can do in 2018, by implementing L 31. All forms of abuse and abuse are very serious, and there has unfortunately been neglect, abuse, unnecessary use of force and neglect of care throughout history. Unfortunately, it has been done by people close to the victim, and it has been done by people who have actually been given the task of caring for these vulnerable people, but who have really neglected that task. And then again there have been some superior authorities that have not responded. It is awful, no matter where and when these violations have been committed, and when you sit and look back so little in history, you can see that there have been many cases where there have just been neglect. We can mention Greenland's experiment in the 1950s; men who were deported to Livø; women who were deported to Sprogø; forced terilisations; the white cut and of course also Denmark as colonial power and slave owner. I clearly believe that these are dark chapters in history, and this is all something that we, as parties, but also as members of parliament, can only regret, and we must do everything we can from each of our platforms to prevent history from repeating itself. When it comes to what is being proposed here, with the official apology, I have thought a lot about the fact that it is really important that we pay attention to the word official. By using that word, the Danish People's Party believes that it is with the Prime Minister sitting at any time on behalf of his government to give an official apology. We have also heard now that there have been many changing governments that have apparently discussed and tried to take a position on it, and we have also heard that there have been, I think, six different social ministers since 2011, when they really started talking about this. And you didn't want to do it. That is why it is, of course, the Danish People's Party's call that we as Parliament look at what we as parties can do to improve conditions for vulnerable people. In fact, we feel that we have been involved in this too. We have been involved in this together with a great many of the Danish Parliament's parties. We have made an abuse package and a supervisory reform, we have helped to look at the limitation periods now, and then we have also made improvements for people with disabilities, which are also some of those who have been subjected to abuse. Fortunately, as I said, there has been broad political agreement on this, which is why the Danish People's Party believes that this is the way forward. We shall see what we can do today from each of our chairs and from each of our positions, but the official excuse lies with the government in office at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134520	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134524	I heard the rapporteur say that we should not continue to tamper with the wound. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that the good-port boys are pillaging their wounds when they want that apology? Because that's what they're still doing away. I have been in contact with some of them up to the reading of this motion for a resolution. They are happy that the limitation period will be abolished, but they still want away that apology. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that when the good-port boys want that apology, and that is one of the driving forces for us to make this proposal, it is because they are taking pills in their wounds?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134612	What I actually said was that I mentioned what is called the healing process and that it continues to be postponed and postponed. That is where I say: what can we do to help these people who have been subjected to these abuses? There I say we should try in 2018 and see what we can do from our platform to improve some things. What I am saying we have done as a single party is that we have taken part in some discussions on this matter of limitation periods, L 31. We are helping to get it through, and that can make a noticeable difference to a great many people. So that is actually the way we have chosen to look at it. Then I would still like to say that when it is to be given officially, it will be a government's job to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134655	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134657	Yes, and that is why we are making the proposal because the Prime Minister will not apologize to it. His mouthpiece, the Minister of Social Affairs, has explained that to us. The government won't. But now the Danish People's Party can do something from their chair. Mrs Karin Nødgaard can sit down on her chair when we come to the second reading of this resolution, and then Mrs Karin Nødgaard has the opportunity to do something from that chair, and that is to press the green button when we have to vote on this resolution, because then there is a majority in favour of it, and then that part of the discussion ends. So my question is: what is Mrs Karin Nødgaard and the Danish People's Party's reasons for pressing the red button when we get there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134744	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134746	I really think I have explained this quite clearly in my rapporteur's speech, namely that when it comes to this kind of thing, there must be a message from a current government, because that is from where you can make the official apology, and there it is that we can go in and say that you then judge from what has been said. But it is not on the shoulders of the individual party that one should go in and say what the government should do and we are not in government, so we cannot influence it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134816	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134818	I don't understand. The Danish People's Party is therefore not reluctant to use its power to ask the government for one thing and the other and the third, and also to say at times that this is where the line goes, and if we do not get our will, then the whole thing goes on. I believe that in this situation, where it is not about the whole state house that goes out the window economically, but only about having a minister say a single word, namely, sorry, a word that I think we all as parents use very actively to our children to say that it is a really, very good thing, because it is about giving something real from one person to another and sometimes on behalf, of course, of the state. That is why we need to help the government, as we have done in other contexts, to find the right way in its policy. You don't get unaccountable because you say the government has to find out for itself. You take co-responsibility if you do not say yes, of course an apology must be made. I mean that. And that is why I would like to ask the Danish People's Party to reconsider this, because it is just as responsible to press the red button as it is to press the green button.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134923	Here you go, Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206134932	In the Danish People's Party we are very aware of what we are pressing when we press the buttons, and when the rapporteur mentions this finding the right path, we clearly believe that when it comes to such things as this, which is just about something that we may not as a single party and individuals can go in and take responsibility for, we did not all live together then it is important that we go in and say that such a thing is a government that has to look at. I did it when I was preparing for this bill, that I actually went in and looked up the word "sorry." And if you go in and do it, there are actually a lot of definitions of it. In fact, it is also a question of taking away some guilt, and then I thought it couldn't be that way with this, if it is. Then there were places where it said that it was a purpose that one felt that one had received some form of forgiveness. Maybe that's not quite it. It depends on how you turn it and turn it. There were just so many definitions of the word, so I thought: what about the word regret? That is also what I had in my rapporteur's speech. I really think that what you can do is that you can go in and regret what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135048	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135050	I think we should do what the victims of the attacks are asking for. When Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen goes to the West Indies and there is an apology, does not use that word, but expresses his apologies on behalf of the state historically, so everyone understands what he means, that is what we want to happen here. And I do not think we should stand here academically and ask: what are the victims looking for? The victims want an apology in the sense that they understand the word excuse, and then there is only one thing to do, and it is to apologize on behalf of the state, you have wrongly experienced some abuse that you should never have experienced. We'll see to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135136	The Prime Minister is referred to as the Prime Minister and not by name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135141	I did not quite hear a specific question. I just want to say that we're gonna have to look into some old quotes and so on. As I recall, it was something about the Prime Minister saying that he distanced himself from slavery as such. It's something else. That is why I am saying that we must be very aware of the choice of words we use in relation to these things and what lies in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135202	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135205	Thank you. I do not understand the rapporteur's argument that it should be the current government which, like on its own, is taking this initiative and that the rapporteur's party cannot itself contribute to it. In other words, if a majority in this Parliament wants to apologize, the government must follow it, and then we, as representatives of a majority of the Danish population, have a solid majority if the Danish People's Party votes with the rest of the opposition in relation to this question which says that we want to apologize. I do not understand why we cannot do this and why the rapporteur does not want to be a part of it. Because the reality is that if the rapporteur picked up the phone and called the minister and said that you know what, Minister, the Danish People's Party is going to vote with the opposition here, then it wouldn't be many hours before the government itself announced that you would apologize to him, because of course you wouldn't want to be defeated in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135309	You don't address directly. Here you go, Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135314	I saw this more as a speech in a debate than a real question. But there is no doubt that we are very concerned about the precise words that are being used in relation to this. What the Danish People's Party has said in this way is that we will regret it here, and in the case of a Prime Minister who will say that a new decision has now been taken and it may well be that it comes within a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135341	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135344	With all due respect, this discussion about these excuses is not something new in the world. And respect for the fact that the rapporteur has Googled it and something like that, but there is solid research from other countries, which has been through similar processes in relation to the Catholic Church and from all sorts of places about the meaning of exactly the concept of giving an apology. So I think that I would urge the rapporteur in some way, and that is not a question to try to get to grips with the quite extensive research and research that is going on here, so that we can also discuss it on the basis of it. I would just like to end by asking: does it not impress the rapporteur that the victims themselves are asking for this apology?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135428	First of all, I hope I do not misunderstand when the rapporteur says that I have Googled something, i.e. as if it were something like that quite random. No, I have actually prepared myself thoroughly and have been in to look at how different expressions have been assessed, also historically. I have also had occasion to google on what the Prime Minister has said in relation to other situations, and on other prime ministers over time, so I think I have been trying to prepare very well for it and without it sounding like some sort of left-hand job. Then I would like to say to the point of getting to grips with the proposal that that is exactly what I am doing. I am just trying to understand how it is that you can tackle it, how you can assess these things, and what kind of choice of words is being used. So I might not think that the comment that came was quite fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135507	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135510	There is one thing that confuses me a little and that I would like to clarify, and that is that the rapporteur says that in this matter it is up to the government to decide whether an apology should be given. But how does this case differ from all sorts of other cases? So, like all of us, DF is not pale about having opinions about what the government should think about pretty much everything, but here the Danish People's Party believes that it is entirely up to the government. Is it a new course that will continue? Or where is the special reason why, in this particular case, one will not try to influence the government into anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135555	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135557	I can reply very briefly to that and there is not so much confusion in it. Because I also said in my rapporteur's speech that when it comes to the word 'official' it is something else in a proposal than if there were just all sorts of other things, even if we, as parties, were to raise some things ourselves. I mean, there's something very special in it when the word is officially used. Then it is the Prime Minister who can raise something at any time, perhaps at the request of a Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135624	Sir. Torsten Gejl? No. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135637	Thank you, President. In history there are plenty of examples of events that are black spots: the bloodbath in Stockholm and slavery, and in recent times the bleeding case, the kidney case, the experiment with the Greenlandic children, events where as a public authority, as a citizen, as an observer, who has taken an interest in the various events, just have to say that what happened was unforgivable. That is also what the Prime Minister said in connection with the visit to the West Indies, in other words that slavery was unforgivable. What has happened in connection with the insights we have received from various studies, reports that have been filmed, in relation to the Godhavns boys, was that the treatment they were subjected to, what they experienced, yes, the failure they received, in terms of scars on the soul, was unforgivable. And who is responsible for that? Yes, some of the close employees in relation to Godhavn's children, in all the boys' homes mentioned, were people who acted as individuals, as employees, but there is also evidence that they could act in this way, because at that time it did not fail very good and intensive supervision. But who is responsible for that? State. What they were subjected to is unforgivable. I understand that some of them and I also have the impression that most of them say they want an official apology from the state. Some of them then also express their desire to move forward and not to drive around in the matter. That doesn't change the fact that I understand that some would like the official apology from the state. However, the responsibility of the state has not been established in courts, and it has not been able to do so until recently. With the change of limitation periods, it is my experience and feeling that it can be now. Against this background, the Left does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135945	There are some comments. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206135948	It is actually a very simple question: does the last comment made by the rapporteur here mean that if the Godhavns boys in the court agree that they have been subjected to an attack and that the state, the authorities had a responsibility, then the Left will be prepared to give an official apology?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140008	Here you go, sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140010	Yes, I would say so immediately. Just like we've seen in other cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140014	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140021	Thank you, and thank you for that answer. In this way, all the arguments put forward by the rapporteur to vote against this motion for a resolution fall apart as a House of Cards, because with that answer the rapporteur recognizes that there is a responsibility. But it's just handy that you can put it in the hands of us now having to abolish limitation periods, because then you don't have to deal with this, you think. But that is, of course, the same as disclaiming responsibility for dealing with things and the excuse that those people want, and I think that is a really bad reason for renouncing it. But will the rapporteur recognise that this is not really the case because the rapporteur is prepared to apologize if the courts agree with the Godhavns boys? That means placing one's moral and political integrity with the courts instead of responding to the desire of the people involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140133	Sir. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140134	No, I don't want to admit that. I recognise the rapporteur's right to believe that my argument coincides like a house of cards, but I just do not agree. I am just talking about the fact that what they have been subjected to was an unforgivable act. It is the act that they have been subjected to, and then we are talking about who is responsible for it in terms of being able to give an official apology, and then I say that the responsibility of the state is not laid down in the courts in relation to other cases, according to the historical review, where we have talked about who is responsible. That is why I do not believe that my argument falls, because I do not conceal the fact that they have been subjected to something that is unforgivable. I am just asking who should give the apology, in relation to where the clearly placed responsibility is. No, in fact, I believe that I have a common thread in my argument and not that, as the rapporteur says, it falls apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140244	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140246	So I have to ask something else to which I think the rapporteur replied because the rapporteur himself asked the question: who was responsible for failing supervision? I heard the rapporteur say the only thing right: the state has. That is what the rapporteur said, and it is quite correct for whom else should be responsible. If you accept that, what is the argument against this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140316	I have just said that state supervision was different from the supervision we know today. This has been well explained by previous rapporteurs, but I have not said that it was the supervision of the state, that is to say, the state as an authority that failed in supervision or whether it was the individual employee or whether it was a crooked interplay between the self-serving institutions and the then supervision and other things. So I have to say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, that no, I have not said that the state has the clear responsibility for this failure. On the contrary, I have said that what they were subjected to was horrible and unforgivable, but that the responsibility of the state has not been established in the courts. We shall now have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140405	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140407	It is not possible to regulate all intercourse between people through law and courts. That's why we're trying to work on a concept called morality. That's why my father dragged me down to the neighbor's son to apologize to him that I was destroying his eye when we were in a fight. It was, of course, to say that there are moral standards that can regulate behaviour that are important. That excuse is for many people just as important as the decision of the courts and even, as we heard Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil say, in relation to child abuse more importantly Why, in the rapporteur's view, can a state not speak of moral responsibility? We have a responsibility to apologize to those people on behalf of the state, and we have a responsibility here in the Folketing to help a government on its way to apologize, since it takes so long for the government to find out, almost regardless of who is sitting there. I understand that the next time there is a social democratic government, that will happen. There I think: when can we work on those concepts a little more dynamic? You can do that in the judicial system when you confront the victim and the criminal. This can be done on international issues when there has been war, for example. in South Africa. Why can't we here? Why are we so old-fashioned that we stick to saying that it is the courts that have to decide whether we apologise? The courts should not interfere in this. It is a moral responsibility that you have to assume if you want to be in a government. There you have to dare to apologize to people when they have suffered abuse via the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140544	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140544-2	In fact, I think it is very reassuring that we are talking about a court decision in relation to a clear determination of guilt. It is not old-fashioned to think that it is the courts that must do so. It is not the Folketing at all which is called upon to judge against a judgment of a court question. We see that very, very differently. It is not a majority in the Folketing that decides who clearly has a responsibility in a legal dispute. The courts do. Those authorities are separate. That the rapporteur thinks that with this view I am immoral and outdated and what else I am accused of is merely an expression of the fact that my concept of democracy, when it comes to separating the authorities, is different from that which is evidently expressed. Having said that, I would like to say that this is not an expression of a lack of understanding. That is why I say that what they were subjected to was unforgivable.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140657	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140658	I have not suggested that the Folketing should be a court of law. I have said that there is also something called a moral responsibility that must be met. And when you say that one thing is unforgivable, the perfectly natural action for most ordinary people in their association with other people will be to say: That is why I apologize. This has nothing to do with a court of law. It has something to do with how you're dealing with each other. When you know that it can have a soothing effect for the other party that has suffered harm, then you do it, of course, when you say, 1) that it is unforgivable, and 2) then I also act accordingly. You don't wait there for a court of law. There, too, we are acting as a government and saying that we are apologising for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140744-2	Thank you. Earlier in the debate, Mr. Christian Juhl expressed his surprise at the fact that the Godhavns boys case could not make use of the expression that the Prime Minister made to slavery. But it was precisely the expression he used that what you had been subjected to was morally wrong, that it was unforgivable. That is the same thing I am saying here. Does this also have anything to do with political morality? Political morality is, of course, that the main focus is on what we do in the future to prevent anything unforgivable from occurring. And that is what has just been done by not hiding anything, setting aside pool funds to uncover it in various reports and get a learning that you can use in relation to children's packages, abuse packages, social supervision, and what I know is precisely to prevent this unforgivable act that some children were subjected to from happening again. It is political morality where you look forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140858	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206140908	Thank you. This is not the first time we have considered the proposal to apologise to the Godhavn boys, and therefore the position of the Liberal Alliance is also well known. We do not believe that the state should apologise for historical injustices. This does not mean that we cannot easily understand the Godhavn boys' need for responsibility. Nor does it mean that we cannot really understand that there is a way to remove any guilt. I fully share the views expressed in the past by the Social Democrats that it can actually remove any guilt that may have been felt as a child. I fully acknowledge that. I also recognise that in here we cannot know what is right in a healing process. We do not know whether chasing an apology is good or bad for the healing process, and we shall probably not stand up for it either. What they need, we can't understand. What helps them further in the process, they know we don't know. When I do not support and the Liberal Alliance does not support this proposal, it is because we have a fundamental view on the issue of states giving an apology. Because we believe that the right place to place responsibility and guilt lies with the courts. That is why I also said, last time we dealt with this matter, that what was important to us was to remove the limitation period, for then the Godhavns boys could go to court, put the responsibility and thus remove some of the blame that they might have had, perhaps not have been on their shoulders; at least some of them have had. That is why I am glad that we have just removed the limitation periods and that we have also done so retroactively. That was absolutely crucial for us. This means that the Godhavns boys can test their case and can place the responsibility they have been asking for so long. It was the right solution to this problem from our chair. So when we don't support this proposal, it's not about not wanting to acknowledge it. We do so in full, but we believe that the right way to take responsibility is through the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141130	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141136	Thank you. The rapporteur recognizes that it will be possible to alleviate the lives of those people if the state apologized to them. I heard the rapporteur say that, but now I can see everything that I have misunderstood. But then it is easier to understand, because then the rapporteur has simply not tried to understand how people feel and why they are asking for an apology. But then let us turn to the second argument, which concerns the fundamental reasons. I understand that it is very square and very fundamental for the Liberal Alliance that the state must not apologise. The courts have to decide on this; that is how I understood it. Am I wrong? Because then the rapporteur must try to explain it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141222	I think what I was trying to say was that the rapporteur himself said earlier in the debate that this is about removing guilt and shame. So that an apology for these people would represent that you took the blame and said this wasn't your fault; what was going on when you were little children wasn't your fault. I recognise that they may have a need for that, because they say so themselves. I believe that this can be achieved by placing responsibility in the hands of a judicial system. I believe that an apology represents a responsibility being placed, and that is what is being done in the judicial system. You place responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141307	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141308	However, the rapporteur now has the opportunity to resolve that part of the problem by supporting this resolution. Furthermore, why do these people and the judicial system have to go through a long and grueling legal process when we can do this? Or is it all about the rapporteur thinking that there is nothing at all to apologize for? That will be the result. That is what remains to be done when we hear the rapporteur's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141340	I hope that's not what's left. I hope that what remains is that when we last dealt with a similar motion for a resolution, we in the Liberal Alliance thought that the solution was to remove the limitation periods so that the judicial system could test its case. We believe that this is where responsibility is placed in a legal system such as the Danish one, and that is what I am holding onto now. We've solved that part, and the Godhavn boys can do it in a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141413	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141415	I would actually like to ask you about this principle that states cannot apologise. Because there is a lot of experience with states around the world who have said so, and there it has had a very important impact on the group of people who have been exposed to something. And it hasn't worked out that it was the left or anything. In Australia, the former Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, who was from a bourgeois party, decided, at least as far as I remember, to apologize to the indigenous population, which was subjected, among other things, to. the forced removal of their children and other things, moreover, during the same period of Australia's history as this has happened. This has helped to heal some wounds in the Australian population and for this minority that was treated like this. Then the rapporteur cannot explain perhaps a little more thoroughly why the Liberal Alliance has adopted precisely the idea that it cannot be part of a healing process if, in the case of Australia, because of a racist attitude towards the indigenous population at that time, the state and the authorities have committed some abuses against a population group? Because it can help clean up and somehow recognise the injustice that has been committed. It is, of course, a little hypothetical, but that is to say, one would have taken the same position if one had been in, for example, one had been in. Australia? Or is a German excuse for the persecution of Roma or Jews also wrong if the present German state gave it? Where is it exactly that the limit goes for the Liberal Alliance in relation to this? I think that's a little hard to figure out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141552	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141553	I do not think I have any clear answer as to where the border is going. There may be many thoughtful and hypothetical examples. However, we had the debate earlier on morals, and I think that somehow is what this is all about for us. It's about morals being linked to people. Humans have morals. A state doesn't. And it might be a long-haired, philosophical discussion, but it's my basic attitude to morality. Moral issues are linked to people; they are not linked to a state.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141636	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141640	Thank you. The state is created by people, and the state has created institutions that have committed attacks on people. It is as much a collective responsibility to apologize as it is an individual responsibility. The rapporteur does not recognize that they, for example: in South Africa after apartheid more focused on reconciliation • i.e. confrontation between the victim and the criminal, rather than court proceedings, and that process has resulted in greater results? Is it not recognized that the Catholic Church has taken advantage of it in connection with the sexual abuse of priests against little boys and that this process may be more valuable than a cold judicial decision? Does the rapporteur not see that in this room between nothing and waiting for a trial there are a lot of possibilities for action, and that this dispute mediation and these conflict resolution tools are actually tools that are more valuable than a court decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141756	Well, I think it can be very difficult to stand here and assess what is valuable to a victim of a crime that has been as nasty as this one has been. We are talking about a responsibility, a sense of guilt which, of course, one would like to be relieved of. There I and the Liberal Alliance believe that the judicial system is what places responsibility. That's how it is in Denmark. It is, of course, somewhere a question of where the border goes the other way. We also have a sea of municipalities that fail massively, even if they receive information on a daily basis. Are they going to apologize to those kids, too? There is Slagelse Municipality, which at one point got the case of the Slagelse sisters, but it was actually started in Skælskør Municipality and under a completely different mayor. Is the mayor going to apologize and be responsible for what Skælskør Municipality did? It gets a little crazy, too. In my view, it is a very sensible principle to maintain that the issue of guilt and liability lies in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141908	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141910	I have always learned that no one should feel too big to give an apology, i.e. understood that, even if it goes beyond my honour, if I have done something unfair, I must be able to apologize to others. A municipality must also be able to do so; a municipal director or mayor must be able to do so, and a case worker in a municipality must also be able to do so. A rapporteur must also be able to do so, and a chairman of the Folketing must also be able to do so. One should never feel too big for that if one can see that it is fair and proper in the situation. I believe that when the victims of the Greenland experiment ask for an apology, when the slaves' children in the West Indies ask for an apology, when the Jews ask for an apology, when the godhavn boys ask for an apology, it must stand to believe that it is because it will benefit them in their process. That is why there is only one thing to do: apologize!
ParlaMint-DK_20180206141958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142001	I didn't really hear a question. But we agree with what an apology is. For me and also for these good-port boys... according to what I hear them say... it's about the guilt and the responsibility. That is exactly what you can do now that we have removed the limitation period. You can go to a court of law and have your case tried retroactively and placed the responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142029	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142030	As I understand the rapporteur, there needs to be a trial to confirm that the state is guilty and that this is necessary before an apology can be given. My question is this: does the rapporteur think there is any doubt? Does the rapporteur think that there is a possibility that the children who were ill-treated here might have wanted to do so themselves? Does the rapporteur think there is any possibility that it was their own fault?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142102	No, the rapporteur does not think so. Of course, the rapporteur does not believe that it was the children's fault that they were subjected to sexual abuse. That is such an absurd question to ask. Then I will just have to correct the rapporteur, because I have not said that there will be another trial before we apologise. I have said that it is in the judicial system that a responsibility is placed, so that is where one gets recognition that of course it was not one's own fault. That is how a legal system works, and I think that is basically quite sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142136	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142138	This is not an attempt to ask a completely inappropriate question. It is really an attempt to understand why it requires a judgment to see that it can never be the children's fault that they have been treated in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142156	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142157	Now, in a legal system such as ours, things have to be brought before a court, even though it is obvious to everyone what has happened. I mean, if I shot you right now and you died on the spot and everyone here could testify to it, I'd have to be a judge anyway, even if it's obvious to anyone what happened. This is how our legal system works, even if there is no doubt here that it was of course not the fault of these children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142222	Nobody should shoot anyone, and no one should speak directly, even though it is a very emotional debate. That's the way it is. I do not think that anyone else has asked to speak, so thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142259	If I were Minister for Social Affairs, and I am not, and I will probably never be, yes, it seems rather immodest to think the idea, but if it were to develop in such a way that Denmark took the green, sustainable transition so seriously that parties like the alternative were in government and I became Minister for Social Affairs, I would look forward to giving the goodport children and all other children who have been subjected to sexual violations and medical attempts a huge apology. As a minister, one has the opportunity to say a single word, which means so much a difference for many people who have been degraded in the most cruel way under the responsibility of the state. That is why I am surprised that the Minister is not doing so. It is a mystery to me that this does not happen, and none of the arguments I hear from the government or the Minister make me wiser. And yes, it matters that you get an apology when you've been horribly assaulted. There is no doubt about that. If the Minister thinks otherwise, I would like to see documentation on it. So, Minister, the platform is still standing here, it is a few steps, and it is a simple word that needs to make a very big difference among those who need it very much. Since the arguments have escaped, I think it is time for the Minister to do the right thing and put a stop to this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142503	It is sad that the 2011 Godhavn report can reveal the failures, abuse, neglect suffered by children in the 19 orphanages during the period 1945-1976. It is sad because it shows a behavior and some environments which are totally inadmissible and also were at that time. It's actually in my lifetime, so in the old days it isn't. I was a teacher from 1967, and I can say that the failures, the physical and psychic abuse and the neglect that took place were not generally acceptable at that time. It was not right, and if it had been discovered by the authorities, then something would have happened at that time; then it would not have been closed. In Copenhagen, corporal punishment was banned in 1952, and it came to apply throughout the country.This is the school system we are talking about here from 1967, but at the orphanages it continued. We are talking here about a brutal childhood for a number of children. I have previously recommended in the debate about the goodport boys and the whole long painful history that the goodport boys should go to court. They have done so, and they actually reached the Østre Landsret in the autumn, but the Østre Landsret decided that the matter was obsolete and they had to go on unfinished business. Fortunately, it is now a good thing that L 31 is giving us some opportunities, and we in the Radical Left will of course be very happy to vote in favour of L 31, which abolishes the limitation period. But I actually think it's very much for the goodport boy Poul Erik Rasmussen, who just wanted a simple replacement for the abuse he was subjected to, that he should go to court again. That is why I would like to stress and say that the Radical Left recommends that we vote in favour of B 54, that is to say an official apology be given to the children who were subjected to the abuse and neglect that occurred in my lifetime around us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142741	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206142750	In the SF, we fully support the intention of the proposers of this motion for a resolution, and we shall look forward to voting in favour of it. The former orphanage children whose terrible experiences are described in the 2011 Godhavn report should have a state excuse. This is important for them, and it is also important for Denmark as a society. If you have been subjected to abuse and neglect, the most important thing in nature is to stop it so that you can feel safe again. But then, in order to move forward, it is important for those responsible for the abuses to assume responsibility. Many victims are burdened with guilt and shame, as has also been mentioned in the debate, and with doubts as to whether they themselves could have done something to ensure that it did not happen; these are feelings with which it is incredibly difficult to live. The trauma can be difficult to process if no one clearly says: we were the ones who did something wrong. We apologize for the pain it caused you. In 2011, the Godhavn report was published supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs. It showed, as is also described in the motion for a resolution, that the boys who had been placed in the various orphanages were subjected to massive failures and systematic abuse, including physical and psychological violence. And, as has also been mentioned in the debate, it showed that they were exposed to things that were also criminals at the time. The boys were isolated from the surrounding community. They were subjected to over-medication, criminal offences and lack of supervision. Despite the fact that legal and legal matters are out of date today, fortunately we have changed that, there is no doubt that, according to the standards of the time, what was going on was illegal. SF has in the past tried to get the state to give an official apology, and there are many who have also tried to do so over time. We hope that this can happen now, and that is why we are also thanking the Enhedslisten for presenting the resolution here today. It is so crucial that we, as a society, have written into history that we have finally taken a stand against the past, so that we can learn from it and so that the social policy of the future will be based on completely different values. It already does today. Fortunately, we have had the right of reproof lifted. We have good social pedagogical care environments. We have been given better supervision and we have become more focused on the protection of children and their rights. That is the way we must proceed. But it is time we apologized to those who unfortunately did not have those conditions. One of the affected is the former orphanage resident Poul Erik Rasmussen. He said in connection with the Østre Landsret's assessment of the cases last year, and I quote: "A large part of our struggle today is to ensure that everyone is told that this is not how children are treated. We owe it to him and to the others concerned to acknowledge it officially. The state and society need to take responsibility for what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143116	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143124	Thank you. When you have read about the 19 orphanages described in the Godhavn report and seen the film about Godhavn, you have no doubt that it was an upbringing characterized by conditions and standards that we will by no means accept today. We politicians today and the government cannot answer for how the sight was on children placed many, many years ago. It is not fair that the government should answer for how society was set up 50-70 years ago. An apology makes the best sense if it comes from one of those who has committed a wrong, for an apology from the current government will very quickly sound hollow. Earlier governments, regardless of party color, have refused to give an apology on the grounds that it is difficult to assess past deeds and present-day vision. The matter has been dealt with under successive governments where a decision has been taken not to give an apology. The background is also that the excuse for the good-port boys could set a precedent for pressure in other cases where an apology is sought, in circumstances which today's vision does not accept. However, by removing the limitation period with retroactive effect, we ensure that one can have one's case tried if one believes that an authority has failed. It is basically about placing a legal responsibility. In Denmark, it is the courts that decide whether the State has legal responsibility in a specific case. The government and the Folketing should not judge whether the state has a legal responsibility, but we should learn from the mistakes of the past. Fortunately, a great deal has happened in the social field since then. We have tightened the rules on notifications and the supervisory form as the latest, where the approval of supervisory tasks has moved from municipalities to five new independent social oversight bodies responsible for approving and supervising the offers. It happened in 2014. Overall, I note that in Denmark there has been a long way between the excuses for events that have happened many, many years ago under other standards and rules. It has been difficult to assess the actions of the day with today's vision, and changing governments have followed that line, and the government alone apologises on behalf of the state, when the state has had responsibility most often as determined by the courts. The changing governments have refused to give an official apology and have had ministers from the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the SF, the Radical and the Social Democrats. The Conservative People's Party cannot support motion for a resolution No. B 54.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143418	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143422	Thank you. The rapporteur says that it is those who have committed the abuses that must be held responsible. The rapporteur must be aware that they are no longer here; the principals, the teachers who committed the abuse of children, are no longer here. We can't hold them accountable. The politicians and the officials responsible for supervision that failed so fatally are no longer here. We can't hold them accountable. Would the rapporteur not agree that this proposal does not contain as much as a tiny word about any civil liability? Would the rapporteur like to confirm that there is no mention of this? It is not the state's legal responsibility that we have to vote on. Would the rapporteur like to confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143518	I'd like to sketch it out. There was supervision of these institutions at the time, which, for many, has arisen on a private initiative. Godhavn was established in 1893 as a training centre and a home for orphaned or unhappy boys, by teacher and philanthropist Axel Christian Frydensberg. It was then later recognized under the Children's Law in 1905. But what I want to say with this is that we see that the ban on the use of cane was introduced on 1 January 1954, that in 1952 the right of reproof was restricted in orphanages, so that the principal and the teachers authorized by him could only give one to two blows, and that reproof was banned on 1 January 1968. Well, that's how it was at that time and then. I did not say that the Enhedslisten mentioned in their motion for a resolution today that we are taking legal responsibility here in the Danish Parliament. But I said in my rapporteur's speech that excuses are not something that we as a state have thrown around us with over the ages.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143656	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143658	Thank you. The latter is certainly not an argument for not dealing with a specific proposal on the reasonableness of giving an apology. However, thank you for the fact that the rapporteur must at least now admit that there is nothing about legal responsibility and that it is therefore entirely in addition to arguing that the Folketing should not judge the legal responsibility of the state, because no one is proposing that. So thank you for that. This leads us to believe that there are no arguments left on the part of the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143731	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur may of course have his opinions, but what I said was that by removing the limitation period with retroactive effect, the godhavn boys will have the opportunity to have it tested in a legal system. We are the legislative power, and then there is the judicial power that we are getting out of, and we are doing so in this matter too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143759	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143802	Apologies are not something the state is swinging around with, or what the rapporteur said in that direction, as if they were just thrown out. No, of course it is not, because fortunately there are not many of these kinds of cases where children suffer serious harm: sexual exploitation and violence. Fortunately, there are not many examples of this, whether you take the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s, 1980s or later years, but they do exist. Whether it has been formally permitted to reprove children, the abuses that have taken place in this case have never been acceptable. We heard Mrs Marianne Jelved tell about that before. That is why this matter is a special situation and a very special situation. The people who have suffered these attacks have asked for an apology. It certainly has a certain significance for a state, a government-supporting party, a rapporteur in a party that wants to lead a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206143915	I just wanted to point out that we had a Thule case. We had the rejection of German refugees. We had the bleeding case. We had the kidney case. We had 22 Greenlandic children involved in experiments, and we had sterilization of stupid. I am just mentioning some of them, for which we could say there should also be a parliamentary matter about an apology. That is why this is an area where we need to be careful about what we apologize for in the past. I would also like to make it absolutely clear that I fully agree with the rapporteur's use of words about the moral inexcusability of these young people and children, as they were, in these institutions. I can only say that if you want to get involved in it, you can see the Godhavn film and keep track of what was going on, and that was terrible things. So there is nothing to do with the fact that I do not think it is awful, but we have now given the good-water boys the opportunity to have a legal decision on it, because we are now going backwards with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206144044	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206144045	If I do harm to another human being, it is perfectly justified that I should receive a judgment in the courts. But I would have visited the family and apologized to that family before I had received that judgment. I think that is the least you can do as a state too. I have the prerequisite for working politically that humanity, and hence politicians and governments and states, can become wiser. I do not understand that we have experienced government parties almost foolishly holding onto the fact that in such situations one should not apologise. The few cases that the rapporteur has now mentioned - five cases - were quite appropriate to consider giving an apology for. Surely we should not wait for an invitation from the Danish Parliament to do so. Every government should say: here we must clean up and then give it an apology if there is any chance of giving an apology to some survivors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206144145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206144146	After all, the rapporteur confirms that I am right in saying that this is an extremely dangerous way to go because I was just confirmed that the cases I mentioned here from the platform would be tabled immediately by the Enhedslisten. I just have to say that the conditions at that time for the good-port boys and the institutions, moreover, cannot be taken into account at all by the present time. What has happened is terrible. There is no doubt about that, but we are 50-70 years back, and it was a time with a view to people that was quite different from what we have today. But an apology from the government is not something the Conservative People's Party can say yes to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206144238	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Orla Østerby. And then we are with the rapporteur for the proposers, who is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206144253	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate, and I would certainly like to welcome one thing, and that is that everyone who has been on the platform here agrees that these children have been subjected to totally unacceptable abuse. I would particularly like to thank the overall opposition for the fact that we now agree that this is what should happen when we get a majority, hopefully after the next parliamentary elections, namely that we have to ensure that the state apologises. Perhaps I would like to thank the Radical Left in particular, which I know has had some different considerations of principle and approaches to this, also recently, so I think I would like to sign for that. But those we should first thank are those who have made sure that we had this discussion at all in Denmark so many years later, and this is the Godhavns boys National Association and the stubborn struggle they have waged for many, many years. There I think you should try to understand the leap that you have to take when you decide to step forward and tell what you have been through. It is, of course, the first step, that some people are saying to themselves: we have to get it into the light, so I have to come forward, and all I can do is tell myself what I have been exposed to, and then hope that the outside world believes in what you say, because you have no guarantee of that for a start. After all, however, a lot of people succeeded in believing in it, and the first for the Godhavn report and countless discussions here in the Folketing and in all sorts of places in society, and we must thank those people who have dared themselves despite great but after what they have been subjected to, that is, that they have had the profits to do so. What we must bear in mind is that from the start they have said that it is not just about us; it is about all the other children who have been subjected to the same abuses. So a huge thank you for that. Without that struggle, we would not have got into the situation that we are in now, which, after all, is positive, namely that on Thursday of a unanimous Parliament, I believe, we are deciding that we should abolish the limitation period in such cases. However, as I said earlier, I have been in contact with some of the godhavn boys, and they have the same view, namely that they insist that they want that apology. Again, not only for their own sake, but also because it can help ease the pressure on the many others who have been subjected to the abuse. And what's this all about? I guess it's really very simple. It's about being recognised, it's about being seen, it's about someone saying that it wasn't you who did something wrong, because you have nothing to be ashamed of, but those who should be ashamed of are the ones who committed the abuses, it's the politicians and officials who had either direct responsibility or certainly didn't intervene and stopped it and who didn't do their job properly. However, none of them are here anymore and they acted on behalf of the state, which is why it has to be said that there is only one way out of it, and that is that those who are here now, the politicians, the ministers, the government that is here now, recognise that responsibility and apologise for it. I don't understand why it has to be so hard. When one hears one rapporteur after another standing up here on the platform saying that it was totally unacceptable that it was morally unforgivable and all the other positive expressions that every member of the Folketing knows it was mad. Then why does it have to be so hard? Many more or less have come, we should call it philosophical reasons and legal reasons for it to be decided in the courts. Some have been completely over in a very fundamental corner, namely that we should not apologise at all, because that is something that the courts decide. I have made it clear that this proposal is not about placing a legal responsibility, because it is a moral responsibility. But I must also ask the bourgeois politicians who argued this way: Where were you when on May 5, 2015, Anders Fogh Rasmussen gave an official excuse that Danish authorities actively helped to extradite Jewish refugees and other innocent people to Nazi Germany during World War II? For such an apology Anders Fogh gave Rasmussen on behalf of the Danish state! I would like to quote what Anders Fogh Rasmussen said on that occasion: an apology cannot change the story, but it can serve to recognise historical mistakes, so hopefully present and future generations will avoid similar mistakes in the future. Quote out. That's as far as it goes. And so Anders Fogh Rasmussen has resisted all these arguments that it should be something legal that means that here in the Folketing we cannot give an apology or require the government to give an apology on a political and moral basis. I have to focus on one more argument which is slightly different from the others, and that is the Danish People's Party's argument, namely that it is up to the current government at all times, and therefore the Danish People's Party has no opinion on it. It is, of course, positive in that one does not argue that the state must not apologise, because it must first be tried in the courts. That's a good thing. But that is how you are affected by your own argument, because, as members of the Folketing, we are ultimately responsible for what the current government is doing at all times. We agree on this in many, many other contexts, where we are always prepared to point the finger at the other wing a little, because they do not ensure that the government for which they are now parliamentary bases behaves properly. So in reality it is perhaps the most shameful of the arguments, and allow me to call the excuses that have come here today, i.e. the one that the Danish People's Party has used, because it is totally disclaiming its own personal responsibility as a member of this Parliament that things are going well in this country. So I am really, really sorry about that, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will consider it again, because we will, of course, be voting on this motion for a resolution, and we are now in a situation where it only depends on the votes of the Danish People's Party whether it will be adopted. Finally, I would like to say something about the limitation period, which has now become an argument. In other words, the fact that the good-port boys have made it possible for us to find ourselves in a situation where, on Thursday, we are abolishing the limitation period in such cases is now being used as an argument against the wish of the good-port boys to have an apology. That's amazing. To this I would just like to say that if we agree that it was totally unacceptable atrocities that took place and that, moreover, most of them were illegal at the time, why should it be so difficult? Why do the godhavn boys have to go through another grueling trial in order to test their rights with the danger that, in the end, there is some legal trip wire that will allow the state lawyers to get their way in that case and give the godhavn boys another pitcher? Why do we have to go through this? I think we need an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145223	Then there was just one question from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145230	This is an interesting debate, and I would like to acknowledge that I think there are some dilemmas here. But now we are discussing whether to apologize or not. Sir. Christian Juhl and I don't know about Mr. Finn Sørensen has in their young lives supported the GDR, the Soviet Union, and has visited these countries and talked about the enthusiasm they felt when they were in these countries. We know today that it was countries that oppressed their peoples, bullied their peoples, imprisoned their peoples when they were politically divided, that is, regimes of terror. We know today that they were. That didn't stop when these young people are now you older gentlemen from visiting these countries. Shouldn't you apologize for that? Should you not apologize and say that we were wrong; we were blinded by an ideology that has proved to be bankrupt and has unimaginable human consequences? There was talk of personal responsibility. Can we have an apology?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145341	I would just point out that the rapporteur starts by acknowledging that there are obviously some dilemmas on the part of the rapporteur in this matter for the rapporteur himself. I'm glad. Then maybe it's not quite a heart of stone we're discussing with. And I note that instead of addressing the dilemmas and sharing his thoughts with the rest of us in relation to the matter we are dealing with here, the rapporteur would much rather talk about something else that has nothing to do with this matter. That is my answer to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145419	I think it's a matter of common sense. You demand that others apologize, that we apologize, you have to understand, on behalf of others. It is not we who have made decisions. We all agree that what was going on back then was under all criticism. But Enhedslisten wants the state to apologize. What about their personal responsibility, that is, your support for horror regimes when you were young; the fascination you had of them? You visited them, took part in courses, etc. etc. We know today how terrible regimes it was. Why shouldn't you apologize: we were wrong, we were naive, we didn't know better, sorry that we supported it when we know today how much these regimes oppressed people? I think that would be a good start.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145514	There was nothing new in the question, and there is nothing new in the answer either. I just note that the rapporteur does not want to discuss the item on the agenda. He'd rather talk about something completely different. We just have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145527	Then we just got a question from Mr. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145531	I assume it was a mistake by Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen that he will not apologize to the last rapporteur. It's gotta be a mistake. But for the changing governments that have refused to give an official apology, there have been ministers from the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the SF, the Radicals and the Social Democrats who have said no to these institutions. We, the Left and the Conservatives, continue to insist that we say no to an apology. Can the rapporteur not agree with me that the fact that we have the same opinion on this gives us an understanding of our arguments that the legal system can now be used with retroactive effect in order to give these people an extra opportunity and that we do not jump to another opinion, as the Radicals have done here today and as the Social Democrats have done in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145649	I am in such a position in political work because otherwise it will not be possible to endure; it is evident that others can do so, but I cannot do so if the political work is not to make progress on the points of view one believes in, to make progress on those people whose interests one wants to take care of, and to welcome every tiny step in the right direction, that is, if one cannot function in this way, it must not be fun to be a politician. So I would just like, as I have done once, to welcome the fact that we now have a united opposition to this view that the state should give an apology to the people we are talking about here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145738	With this, we thank the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145757	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206145818	The proposal is about social responsibility in the investments of Danish cross-border pension funds. A change to the law on financial activities is proposed to allow cross-border pension funds to assume social responsibility in their investment policy, even in cases where this may mean that the return will not be fully the greatest possible. In addition, it proposes the introduction of an obligation for cross-border pension funds to draw up a policy of social responsibility, which will address, inter alia, the issue of: human and social rights. Pension funds must invest pension savings wisely and at the request of pension savers. Within this framework, pension funds can already work with social responsibility, and so do they. The government does not believe that the resolution is the right way to go. Firstly, today there is nothing to prevent each cross-border pension company from assuming social responsibility in its investment strategy, as long as the interests of its members are safeguarded in the best possible way within the investment strategy in question, which can therefore contain objectives of community responsibility. Secondly, pension funds are already obliged to report on their possible social responsibility policies in their annual reports. In addition, they must explain how their policy, if any, is translated into action. A review of the annual reports of transversal pension funds, etc. shows that all transversal pension funds have developed an investment policy, guidelines or the like that ensures that social responsibility is exercised in relation to investments. Thirdly, the members of cross-sector pension funds have the possibility to influence the pension fund through inter alia: general meetings. If members want an investment strategy with a greater degree of social responsibility to be incorporated, they can then appear at the general meeting and make that point of view known. It is my clear starting point that it is important to create a good framework and opportunities to include social responsibility in investment. However, it shall be up to each transversal pension fund and its members to decide how such a policy should be developed where appropriate. At the same time, the government is concerned about making it easier and less complex for institutional investors in particular to work with social responsibility. That is one of the reasons why I took the initiative in the spring of a working group which, among other things, is: has provided input for updating the Department of Business's guidance on responsible investments. The working group has just submitted its recommendations to the Ministry of Business, and we are currently working to follow up on the recommendations. In my view, therefore, we must create the framework and companies must fill them in the way that suits them and their members best. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150107	There is one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150112	Thank you. Is the speech by the Minister for Taxation to be understood as meaning that the Minister believes that there is room for improvement in relation to taking social responsibility among pension funds? And is it also to be understood that it is also true of pension funds who believe that by the law on financial activities they are obliged to seek the maximum rate of return, despite the fact that it can speak against some of the other considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150155	I am aware that most pension funds already include social responsibility in their investments. My starting point is, of course, that it is up to individual pension funds, but also the members who can always assess this here, to assess how they want to discharge social responsibility in their investments. That is why I see no need to change the rules. Because, on the question, it has to be said that if most people today are already doing so and if members can get the company to change that policy, because they can do so, then there is no basis for a change of law that gives some decrees when they can do so voluntarily today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150242	Make it exemplary? I think we just have a different view of that. When Paradise Papers, this leak, was published last year, you could see that 16 out of 17 pension funds had customers' savings in tax havens on islands like Bermuda and Cayman Islands, Isle of Man etc. It is perfectly legal in many cases. The problem is that these places are so opaque, and it helps to maintain these sometimes a little too creative tax structures. That was also, I understand, why ATP recently created a new tax policy and said that now they wanted to change course on behalf of 5 million Danes' savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150339	Just to correct the questioner, I did not mention the word in an exemplary way, because I am not taking a position on what they are doing. I say that the pension funds have the opportunity to say that what is the rules today is that Members have the opportunity at a general meeting to help define the strategy that the pension fund should pursue in this area. They also have the opportunity to be represented on the boards. So it is up to Members to determine that policy. Today, as I mentioned, social responsibility means a great deal to me for most of the pension funds. In those where it does not take up so much, Members must, as it were, step in and say: we want that. It's kind of up to them to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150425	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150427	It's just to clear up everything, because that's what this proposal is about... about a pension fund according to the laws and regulations in force and the supervision of the FSA, etc. etc. must choose to invest pension funds in a way that does not yield the maximum return, but which, in turn, has some social benefits or beneficial effects for its members. Do we have to do what the rules are today, or is the assessment, which is, like, at the forefront, that it should be the maximum return? It is not because the two things are necessarily in conflict, but must one say: we choose to invest this number of billions somewhere, even though we know that the return is less than if we had invested them somewhere else? Is it possible to do so in accordance with the rules and regulations in force in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150522	What is explicitly stated in the legislation is that they must invest their assets so that the interests of members are safeguarded in the best possible way. This means, as I see it, that it does not prevent pension funds from setting up an investment strategy that takes account of social responsibility. It's up to the pension funds themselves. So when you define how to best protect the interests of Members, it is up to the pension fund to establish a strategy that takes into account what is appropriate to the best interests of its members, and that may, of course, also be to take account of social responsibility. For it is the companies themselves that set out their own strategies for responsible investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150610	There is a slightly different practice of how to push in for the second time. That's why I always get a little confused. Okay, I understood the answer so that one must then understand the concept of interests wider than economic interests. It could also be interests, such as those of the European Parliament. That we also have a planet for our children and things like that. In other words, it must be understood that one should actually take into account other considerations than the degree of return in the first place. Is that correct? Otherwise, I would like us to be able to have a written answer when we consider this motion for a resolution, which really explains exactly what it is. My second question is this: what are the rules for pension companies that are not members?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150649-2	Now we're going to start with one part of it to clarify. In other words, companies already have the opportunity, within the existing legal framework, to set up an investment strategy, such as: I do not know if it is possible to preserve the planet, as the questioner said, we are all agreed on that when the interests of the customers are best served within the chosen investment strategy. So it's a decision you make. I am, of course, happy to explain this in writing, and the questioner is of course very welcome to put written questions on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150727	But we can then thank the Minister for that. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that's Mr. Knox. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206150735	Thank you, President. And thank you to the SF for putting forward this resolution so that we can discuss an important subject and at the same time also review the main rules that we have now adopted for pension funds in Denmark. The Minister has already explained the content of the motion for a resolution, so I would like to focus more on the content here. What are the applicable rules today? Today, however, companies are setting out their own strategies for responsible investment, and they are doing so according to legislation which says that pension funds must invest their assets so that the interests of members are safeguarded in the best possible way. And the interests of members may include the establishment of an investment strategy for pension funds that takes account of social responsibility. Internationally, we have the UN Principles for Responsible Investments, and it is my impression that the financial sector in Denmark is following those principles in the definition of investment strategies. The current rules thus allow pension funds to establish an investment strategy that takes particular account of the interests of customers as long as the chosen investment strategy is the best possible way of safeguarding them. Since January 2016, with the implementation of the Solvency II Directive, the pension funds in Denmark have followed the Prudent Personal Principle, which aims to ensure that companies' investment strategies reflect what customers are looking forward to. However, there is no specific requirement as to which investments the pension funds may make, but vice versa, the principle does not state that pension funds must not set up an investment strategy which takes special account of the interests of policy holders as long as the chosen investment strategy is in the best interests of policy holders. What is the situation with respect to social responsibility in pension funds? As I have said, it is now possible for pension funds to prioritise and discharge social responsibility in relation to their investments, and there is also openness on investment strategies, because the accounting rules require pension funds to explain their social responsibility policies. The pension funds are now obliged to explain their possible social responsibility policies under the applicable accounting rules. And, as the Minister also mentioned in his speech, a review of the annual reports of pension funds has shown that they have developed investment strategies and guidelines to ensure that social responsibility is exercised in relation to investments. The question then is: is there a need for new measures? And, as the Minister also mentioned in his speech, there is a working group which has worked to see whether guidance in the area of pension funds could be improved. Now the recommendations lie with the Minister, and I look forward as a Social Democrat and a member of the financial conciliation circle to the fact that we are of course being invited over so that we can discuss this here and see if there are any steps that need to be taken to make this better. But in addition, there was also a recent conference in the Danish Parliament's network for the World Goals, and it emerged from some pension funds that there were in fact some restrictions on investing in some things that could help achieve the World Goals. This was the kind of alternative investment they were talking about, and to get to the bottom of it I will try to ask about it during committee reading, because I think we should certainly look at whether we can do something in Denmark to help our pension funds contribute more to achieving the global goals. So to conclude, this is a relevant debate that the motion for a resolution raises. We have rules in this area that are being complied with, and I look forward to assessing in the financial conciliation circle whether further action can be taken. But overall, the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151134	Then there is a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151139	That's what I'm going to say to Mr. Knox. Thomas Jensen that I am a little disappointed because I would think that the Social Democratic Party also believes that the huge pension assets that are in Denmark, distributed over a number of pension funds, of course, we might as well, while guaranteeing the value of pension funds, use to secure some of the other overall goals we have about sustainability, about climate and about what to say about proper tax conditions. But shall I understand it in the sense that Mr. Thomas Jensen, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, says yes to us working on this in committee too, so that we can give some input to the Minister in relation to the further work that needs to be done, with the very concrete things, among other things. the one example that the rapporteur referred to, with an alternative energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151239	I believe that, in general terms, we in the Folketing should look at whether we have any good rules that work today, and I actually think we do. Secondly, we have to look at the fact that we have huge fortunes in pension funds, and we ourselves have been in a meeting of the EP's Enterprise Committee, which was so good enough with ATP, but we can, of course, enter into a dialogue with these people to see how we can perhaps help the pension funds to adjust their investments to a greater extent, of course, on the one hand, where they get a good return for members and, on the other hand, where it may be some things that can help to solve some of the political objectives that we would also like to have in here. I do not necessarily believe that there are any contradictions in this, but we must of course also ensure that there is a good return, so that Danish employees can also receive a decent pension on the day they retire.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151329	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151330	The last one is clear. In other words, there are no parties in the Danish Parliament that would risk people's pension assets on the contrary. But it is quite a Sisyfo work that we, as politicians and as people all over the world, are trying to find solutions to tax evasion, to tax havens that are so unsolidarous and where certain countries have reason to undermine our own welfare society, and that at the same time we have these huge fortunes that are being used to maintain this system. Now Mr. Thomas Jensen himself ATP, and it is of course very interesting that after some pressure and some involvement in different tax havens, the ATP has actually chosen to change tax practices and tax policies. That's interesting. So there has to be something to come after that too, I hope. Thomas Jensen agrees. So just to finish, sir. Thomas Jensen, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, that you do not want to write this into the law, but that you encourage pension funds to do the minimum, what ATP does in relation to tax practices, and of course not invest in the countries that are on a tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151443	I cannot support the fact that we have to go from one place to another, but at the same time I would like to say that there is also a certain democratic function in putting things forward so that we can see how good they are at it and how their follow-up is on it and what the results are. And then there are some employee representatives and there are some pension customers who also sit on the boards and can influence how companies' investment strategy is planned and evaluated. There I think you have every opportunity to get in and influence it in the right direction. Then I also think that our democracy at home works in a sensible way, that if, for example, we do so. Seeing that there are some people who do not quite manage to invest properly and that the tax does not look quite right either, and that the countries in which you invest are not quite proper, then you straighten in and change your strategy so that you get a more socially responsible investment strategy in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151542	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206151554	I am tempted to start where the Social Democrat rapporteur left off. Our political attitude towards this lies in quite good agreement with what was said by the Social Democratic Party, and it does, because we believe that we must also respect the fact that the prime task of Danish pension funds is, of course, to ensure that they operate on the basis that their members at their general meetings, on their boards, etc. has chosen them to do so. At the same time, of course, we must ensure in here from Christiansborg that the legislation that exists is provided on a basis that is good and stable and that it also ensures that there is a focus on the fact that the investments made by pension funds and other investors also contain concepts such as social responsibility with which it must lead in all respects. We in the Danish People's Party have the clear view that it works well on the platform that exists today. In fact, we think that many companies are also good at ensuring reporting by those who are capital funds, pension funds and other companies. Now I know that SF is very concerned about CSR reporting and so on, but I think that we should also mention today ESG reporting, which is at least as important in relation to the sustainability principles that we all like, of course, but which must also ensure that investments are as high as possible for the benefit of pension fund members. The proposal put forward here by the SF states that the government is being called upon, and I would say that we can then call on the government to do many things. There are not so many demands in a call, but at the same time I can see that the comments on the resolution state that the pension funds will be obliged to draw up a social responsibility policy. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we do not object to such a policy, and we would also encourage all pension funds to have it, but we do not quite understand what the formulation of a policy would do, except that it would, of course, fill something in an annual report. We do not believe that such a commitment will shift anything compared to the levels of investment assessments which are the basis for the types of things on which pension funds choose to base their economy. Human rights, social conditions, the fight against corruption and the protection of aggressive speculation in tax planning are clearly elements that we of course think need to be addressed, including in Denmark, and I also think that sufficient changes have been made to improve things in those areas in relation to what has been done in the past. Because we understand that there are a lot of cases and there can also be new cases, and cases will also be found in the future • where Danish companies or companies, which at least have threads to Denmark, have been extremely creative when it comes to circumventing Danish tax laws. We must fully ensure that the necessary legislation is there, and we must do so on a Danish basis, but it is of course difficult for us to go in and look at legislation that operates in other countries such as the United Kingdom. Some of the places that SF has also mentioned, such as Cayman Island and all sorts of other places, but that is where we in Denmark try to ensure that the Danish legislative text is followed to the letter in words, ability and practice, and that is how I hope it will be forward-looking. But we don't mind this being discussed in the Folketing. We think it would be good for there to be regular discussions about how investments are going and whether they take place on a sound basis • if the ownership circle of the Danish pension funds has made some demands on their management etc. As far as commitments are concerned, they must of course also be respected, but there is nothing to suggest that we here at Christiansborg should add further legislation as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152029	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152033	Thank you. I understand to some extent DF's wonder, in relation to what we're doing with this... we have a CSR paragraph in the Financial Statements Act, it was introduced under Ole Sohn. It is, of course, very good that you can describe what you want from good things, but it is not more binding either. Clearly, there is a confusion as to whether a maximum return is higher than other social considerations. We were told this by the Minister, but not in such bell-clear terms that we can now go out to say to the pension funds: See, you do not have to take the maximum return, you can take one that is a little smaller, but still good for the pension savers, which at the same time also ensures that the Danish tax system, for example. is not being undermined. The clear message was given by the Minister for Employment when we had consultations on ATP this summer. The Minister clearly said that these considerations could be taken into account, and they are completely similar, as long as the value of the savings is not diminished, that is clear. So just to tell Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby is here a way to get into the law of financial business, that the two considerations can weigh equally heavily, because there is apparently a lot of confusion about that today, both from pension funds, and I do not think we got a sharp answer from the Minister either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152209	The latter must, of course, be a dialogue between the SF rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and so I do not think I should use my speaking time to get involved in that. But in relation to the best investment I would like to say: yes, but in relation to many of the investments you spend in pension funds, it is not something you just do to be a day trader on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. These are long-term investments, and things you invest in can cause deficits for the first three years, and vupti, you might have a success story in the fourth year. We do not know that, and therefore it will always be difficult for those in pension funds who decide what sort of things we have to put the bulk of our investment into what it is that will produce the greatest income in 20 years or in 10 years or whatever you have as an investment framework. I think we should stick to the fact that this must be any management of a pension fund's prime task, namely to ensure from the Danish legislation to provide the highest possible return for those who put money into the pension fund, that is to say Danish employees and everyone else. I think that the other thing confuses more than it benefits, because otherwise if you comply with Danish legislation, I think you are on safe ground, and then we should not start to legislate on how to assign this money to what kind of industries they are going to be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152336	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152337	But we are already doing so, there are areas where investment is prohibited, for example. Cluster bombs. It has come together and said that there are indeed some areas that we think are so harmful that there is international agreement that this is not being invested in. Is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby did not agree with me that one's pension assets could be undermined if for decades there has been an undermining of the Danish and international tax systems due to massive tax evasion and the use of tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152418	Well, I'd like to agree with the questioner. It is obvious to everyone that there is speculation on cross-borders, between different parts of the world and Denmark and between different states, and there are some states that are villains, and there are others that are heroes. I think the whole parliament can recognize that. Then Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen mentions cluster bombs. Well, that's a good proof of lawmaking. And I don't think you should start making more leg buckles and bends and everything else to interfere in how to invest in the Danish pension funds. They must do so within Danish legislation, and we will take care of it in here from Christiansborg. But to go in as stated in this proposal and oblige them to draw up a social responsibility policy, something that the vast majority of people already practice in both spirit and practice, I find it difficult to see we need to spend our time on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152513	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152522	Thank you. The content of the motion for a resolution is probably not much of a reason to repeat for the fourth time from the platform. But I just want to stick to the political aspects of it. After all, I think that a purpose of pension savings is to ensure that Danish employees set aside part of their wages every month, and then it is invested in order to ensure that when the employee concerned retires, there is a proper economy to supplement the public folk pension and the ATP so that you get a decent old age. That is basically the main purpose of our pension funds. That's why we set them up. Then we have continually ensured that there is a much greater opportunity for individual pension funds to choose to say: how will we invest? And it is therefore important to make it clear that the possibility of exercising social responsibility in investment policy already has pension funds today. I know that there are no barriers in current legislation that limit the ability of individual pension funds to define a socially responsible investment strategy. And, of course, within the chosen investment strategy, the pension fund must ensure maximum return, so that there is a good pension for employees when, after a long life on the labour market, they retire and have to enjoy their retirement. In the same pension funds there is basically also a member democracy, so as a member of a pension fund you have the opportunity to influence the chosen investment strategy at general meetings, in connection with the election of the board, etc. Whether you want a policy of social responsibility is determined by the individual pension fund and by the members of the pension fund. As has been pointed out a few times from up here, pension funds are already under an obligation today to explain any social responsibility policies in the annual reports and to explain how these policies are translated into action. So many of the intentions of the SF's motion for a resolution are already valid. Then I would like to draw attention to what the Minister of Business said in his reply, namely that initiatives have been taken to update the Business Department's guidance on responsible investments, and this is based on both OECD and UN guidelines on responsible corporate behaviour, and this will also be the starting point for Danish pension funds. So basically, we believe that there is ample opportunity for pension funds to choose to create a socially responsible investment strategy and then, of course, within the chosen strategy, ensure that there is the maximum return to the pension fund members. That is basically what they are put in the world for. So in the Left we see no reason to support the motion for a resolution from the SF, and I have promised to welcome both the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party and to say that they do not support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152858	Thank you. And here too we have a question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206152902	At first, I thought that sir... Torsten Schack Pedersen was very clear, and I thought: that was nice, because we might now move to a place where it was very clear that other social considerations were similar, that is to say, that you can have them, while of course you have to pay off a healthy pension fortune in a proper way. But in the end Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen saw that what you were going to do as a pension fund was to ensure the highest possible return. So that must mean that if you have something you want to invest in, which is with a return of 13%, then you say that you would actually rather invest in what can ensure green conversion and which is 11 per cent. or 12%, that is to say, you have to choose the one where there is the highest return. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? Because I think it's going a little back and forth, and if there's no clarity in here, there might be something in the pension funds either. And I guess they have the right to know how to act within the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153005	What I actually think I was told was that pension funds have the opportunity to choose to create a socially responsible investment strategy. And within that investment strategy they must ensure the maximum return. I think that is quite legitimate, but I am aware that this does not mean that a pension fund can be prevented from saying that we attach importance to an ethical and socially responsible investment policy and that it must be maximised. I think that is quite reasonable, in other words, that a strategy should be adopted in a democratic manner and that it should be maximised within it. Of course, one could take it further in principle and say that it might be optimal if the individual Member could say: I would actually like to choose to place my money in a certain way. Other members then have other wishes and place their money in a different way. That would, of course, be the ultimate influence of the individual Member; also understood that if there is only one investment strategy, it is of course a little too bad if 51 per cent. choose how the other 49%. so must also have their money placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153121	There is this uncertainty among some who say: we are obliged to ensure the highest possible return, even if it is in a tax haven, even if it is in coal and oil, although we really want to promote a green transition. In other words, if there is still that confusion because there have been various reports, it would not be a good idea for the Minister, for example. Did he send a shepherd's letter to the relevant pension funds, explaining clearly that, of course, you can have other social considerations and choose a perhaps minimally lower rate of return? It doesn't even have to be to guarantee the other social considerations, that is to say, to make it clear once and for all, as did the Minister of Employment in relation to the ATP Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153209	I think that there is always every reason why there is maximum clarity about the rules, so that everyone knows exactly which framework one can act within. I would say that perhaps it would have been more appropriate for us to have tried to go that way and clarify the rules before we had to deal with a motion for a resolution on the matter in the Folketing, because the clarity requested by the SF is, I believe, better achieved by means other than a motion for a resolution in the Folketing. However, I agree that clarity is obviously needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153242	But that's what we're thanking, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen and welcome to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153250	This is an important discussion which SF raises with this proposal, which is of course about ensuring that Danish pension funds can choose to think broad, ethical and community perspectives into their investment policy, even if it is at the expense of marginally lower returns to investors, i.e. if the members of the pension funds concerned so wish. And throughout history there has been a lack of clarity about those conditions. The reason why this is important is that if I am going to try to put on the little ideological spectacles and I like that in these parliamentary debates we are actually in a rather unique situation in Denmark compared to so many other countries, because the employees, that is. All of us ordinary people who do not own businesses actually have very large fortunes placed in some democratically controlled pension funds which, depending on what they are, we have a great democratic opportunity to influence. It is good, both because, as has been said, it is good that old age no longer means a marked material decline, as it has done historically, but that we actually have something to live for when we retire from the labour market and can continue a life that is at least approximately similar to what we have had while we were employed. But what is interesting is also that these very large fortunes are going to give employees and ordinary people power over investments, and we are talking about a very large sum of billions. Unlike other countries where the fortunes are concentrated in much fewer hands, typically at the top of society, we have some fortunes here, which are owned by all of us and which we have an opportunity to exert democratic influence on. And the question of democratic influence on investment is surely a fairly crucial issue in relation to where our society is moving. In other words, are investments in the direction of coal and oil, or are they in the direction of sun and wind? This has an enormous impact on the possibilities of avoiding catastrophic global warming. Are investments moving towards speculative investment objects that change hands from second to second without ever creating a single job in the real economy, or are they going to create good jobs in Denmark? Does the money go to companies that contribute to society by paying taxes or are they invested in larger companies that wipe off the bill on all of us and store their fortunes or evade tax in different ways? It is, of course, crucial to what opportunities our children and grandchildren have and what kind of society we are developing. Therefore, it is extremely important that we as employees through our pension funds can choose to say: we would actually like to accept a marginally lower return if, in turn, we can safeguard some other interests for ourselves. For as employees we have no interest in our pension assets being invested in companies that use social dumping, that is to say, which dismiss some of our colleagues for importing underpaid labour from outside; or who choose to say thanks for caring for Danish society by moving their production to countries without trade unions and with low wages; or that our money for that matter is invested in technologies, for example. oil and coal or fracking or other things that we know stand in the way of meeting the very serious climate challenge that we face. So in those cases, I actually think most people are like that, at least I myself will feel that a marginally lower return is of less importance than that of us, for example. can help to address the challenges that are, or that we invest in some companies that ensure that we have a job ourselves, even tomorrow, also the day after tomorrow, rather than in companies that work against that perspective. That is why it is important for these matters to be clarified, and I hope that they will be able to remain so during this committee process. And then the SF has to decide whether it wants to be put to the vote or whether otherwise, for example. A report can be written in the committee which indicates what the committee's position is on this. Perhaps this could also be done if we clarify things from the Minister's point of view in the course of the proceedings. But this is an important discussion. And there is also a discussion that goes on whether we could go even further. Have I exceeded time already? Well, quite briefly: one might well ask oneself: could one more Qualifying Investment, which, in addition to providing a good return, also takes some other social considerations for the benefit of all of us, both in the case of pension funds and in the case of private savings? I think that is an exciting discussion that could be raised in the wake of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153833	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206153841	Thank you. In the alternative, we would very much like to encourage the government to accept the SF's motion for a resolution. When you come in here as a new party, you often experience that you have a lot of brilliant ideas and considerations, and sometimes you find out that some people have done it before. In this case we have also seen that, although we have been on the table with motions for resolutions and questions in this direction, we are probably not the first to think about them. Now that the resolution is up, we can at least have a debate raised and two points made to the effect that there may be opportunities for companies to be motivated, through these pension companies, to act as we would like them to do, in other words to stop using tax havens or perhaps look more in the green direction instead of the black one. This is the case in a pension fund, where you have the opportunity not to think ethically in terms of economics, that it is not certain that you do it just if you look at the short-term where it is you get the best return. This has certainly been the case in the last survey I have seen. If you look at the investments over a 10-year period with an ethical profile and a green profile I think it was Monday Morning that was there with it in 2016 or something like that you want them to, that it actually also makes financial sense. But the problem is that if you have the opportunity not to do so, you do so sometimes. We could also say that as parties in here we could agree that we thought three bottom lines: a social, an economic and an environmental element into everything we did; we have the possibility of that. But for some strange reason, that's not what we're doing. This may be due to political differences; it may be due to short-term ideas that we need to get our financial law under control within a four-year period, which means that we cannot really invest what we might need over a 20-year period. There can be all kinds of good reasons. So I would like to agree with some of those who say that it is perhaps already possible to deliver on these ethical, sustainable parameters, as proposed by the SF, to a greater extent, by making a change of law. I'm sure you can do that already today. I just see over and over again that if there's an opportunity not to, then there are some who allow themselves not to. So our discussion is, of course, whether we in the Danish Parliament should say that our pension funds, which manage our money here in Denmark, must take the lead in the very, very large billions that lie there, to set the direction we want. Well, that's what we think in the alternative we should do. One can then say whether we should decide on the Danes' money and whether it is really us who know the best. Hm, it is a little unpopular to say sometimes, but I think that when I have said yes to being a politician, I must at least say what we in the alternative think is right and what people who have voted for us think. Indeed, I sometimes think that one knows best when one has had the opportunity to get the whole office and the secretariat to help oneself when one has discussed it in here for a long time. Before I went into politics, it was at least limited what I had got into this area. So sometimes I think we can rest on the laurels and say that we must come up with a direction for Denmark without saying that all those who so vote have not understood anything. That is not why we are setting a direction and would like to have the green transition from here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154151	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154155	Thank you, and thank you for your support. I'm glad, too, sir. Mr Gade stated that, as things stand, coal and, in part, oil are being passed over as an economic investment, not only as an investment in relation to a green conversion, but because it has simply become better business to invest in the green. This motion for a resolution does not say either, and I think it may be a pity if the debate ends up giving the impression that it is a bad investment economically to invest sustainablely too. In this way, return demands are a little strange, for as Mr. Pelle Dragsted said, if your job is outsourced or disappears due to various things, it may also have a consequence for your life income, compared to what else happens to your pension savings. That was actually more of a comment. I would also like to refer to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, and I was actually going to do that to the Conservative rapporteur, but neither the Conservatives nor the Liberals are here today. She has recently been asked what weighs the heaviest. And then she said: In the end, if we do not meet the Paris goals, everything else can be of no consequence. I think that is actually a very good thing to say, and I would actually have liked to ask the Conservative rapporteur about it, but now it became more of a comment to you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154323-2	First of all, I would like to make it clear that it is often a really good economic investment when you invest in the future and what is now going to be the next big one that will affect our lives and our economy. There has been the green transition or acting socially sustainable with a sharp CSR profile since for many years you have been aiming to find out how to do it. So I think that is an important point; it is also important to say here: yes, this is not just for our blue eyes; it is perhaps also a very good business to do. When it becomes a very good business for everyone to do, it may also be easier for pension funds to talk to the companies in which they are investing. I have seen some good comments from a board where they say: we would rather go in and influence the companies in which we invest, with a good dialogue rather than saying that we will not invest in them. I can understand that, but then there will also be some time when you have to draw a line in the sand and say: well, if you do not change the profile, we will have to withdraw, and then we can come back when you have landed where we are thought-wise. Yes, Mette Abildgaard sounds to have a good point, as many of us can agree, that it is the green one, just as it is the world that comes first before all the other. Sometimes I have to pull myself up at the roots of my hair to think that thought, because it sounds a little pathoslady when you say it's the whole planet, and there's no planet B, but that's true.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154436	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen includes those who are not present in the Chamber, I would like to inform you that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has been in the Chamber and is now at tax negotiations. That's why. Then we've reached Mrs. Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154452	Thank you. It is good that you have a President sitting who can defend the many tasks of the small parties. Well, today SF has taken up an important discussion, which is the balance between investing only for profit and investing sustainably. As we have also talked about today, it is not always a tradeoff. In fact, there are a great many green investments that have just proved to be the most economically sustainable. But the reason why I think it is good to have this discussion today and that we should continue it, among other things. In the financial conciliation circle, there is, of course, an enormous amount going on in the investment environment at the moment. In fact, this is one of the places where I have seen a debate move fastest - that is what is happening in the investment environment at the moment. A few weeks ago, in Davos, I heard a chief investment officer from UBS, one of the largest banks that sits and juggles billions a day, saying that the time when you believed in Milton Friedman's words that the only social responsibility that was, for business was maximizing its profits, is definitely dead. I mean, it's so old school to think like that, like you don't have a big social responsibility as an investor. So it seems to me that the most important thing we can do right now, including by the Danish Parliament, is to ensure that the Danish investment environment, not least the pension funds, feels that we have their backs, that we say to them: You can invest sustainably; we think from the political point of view that this is important. I have not immediately heard the Danish investment environment say: we have very major legislative challenges at the moment. But I think, both with the Minister's working group and with the discussion we have today, that it would be very good to write a report in which we actually reach out to the investment environment in Denmark and realise whether they think there are some barriers to being able to invest sustainably. It seems to me that they must, of course, have a sustainable investment policy. So have the vast majority. The Danish pension funds are actually known around the world as some of those who are very proactive in the field of investment, not least in the area of climate investment, where I think PensionDanmark is perhaps the most invited pension fund in the world to talk about climate investment. So, as far as I am concerned, in a report we would like to support all the intentions behind this proposal and ensure that we can take the next steps to follow up the work done by the Minister in committee as well. That is why, of course, I am glad that we have the discussion today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154723	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154724	Thank you. I share in part Mrs Ida Auken's optimism about investments in green conversion. I just hope we're not too late. But something really gets moved in these years, and it's good to see it. I may not quite share the optimism about what to say about the sustainability of taxes and contributing in a fair way where values are created. At any rate, I still think we can see that this is a structural thing. When large companies are present, where there is transparency and where there are artificial structures etc., it is really nice to hear that there is an investment manager in a large bank saying that that time is over. But we just need to see it, and that is why I think that the tax part is just as important as the green transition, because it is the one that must help us to finance it and make the right choices, so that we have a more sustainable planet. But I just want to say thank you, and I can hear where it is going from the radical side, so I think perhaps the most sensible thing is to end up writing a report. There are probably many of us who could agree to write something in common.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154837-2	Thank you. For the Radical Left, the most important thing is for us to take concrete steps out in reality. And if what can make a Parliament move together, maybe being able to agree on some of these intentions and write it down in a story, then we think it's a good place to end up. For our sake, we should very much like to write something about taxes, because transparency and responsible investment are part of the fact that we also have the tax issue. So I think it is a good thing that we can take part in a report, and I hope that the Danish pension funds will follow this debate and feel that there is a willingness in the Folketing to give them the opportunity to invest as sustainably as possible. I fully agree with the rapporteurs who have said before that with regard to these investments and the investment in their future, it is absolutely essential that money is in the box when you retire, that is to say there is something to live for, and it is also about social responsibility. But it is also quite important that there is a future. It is very, very important that we meet the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is important that the objectives of the world are met, because that is what determines whether we have a future or not. You can have enough money saved up for your pension, but if there isn't a stable world to live in, it might be one great thing. So of course we have to hit this balance, and we think you can write that into such a story.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154953	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206154956	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good contribution from the rapporteur. I would like to ask a little about the rapporteur's position on using tax incentives in relation to investments. When I ask, it is because the Radical Left is part of this business and growth package that was made in the autumn. This is where you do, for example. a share savings account and an investor allowance. It is not a coincidence that it is a social and sustainable blind deduction, i.e. it does not matter. When we talk about the share savings account, it just has to be quoted shares, which, of course, excludes both small entrepreneurs, but also very many green investments in smaller companies. And when it is an investor allowance, it is also for any investment in small and medium-sized enterprises. So my question is: could the rapporteur imagine that if at some point there is a new majority in the Folketing, for example? could look at linking up schemes which, in the same way as those that have now been settled, actually gave some tax advantages, for example. Like the share savings account with a lower tax on the return requirement, but then we said that in return for the state aid we're just another way of granting state aid • actually would like to use it as a tool to push investment in a direction that gives some added value back to society, besides of course creating jobs and all that, so that we secure a greater volume of investment in the green area, for entrepreneurship, or whatever it might be? I think it's a little awkward in this situation that you make this kind of thing... if you can say blind deduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206155125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206155126	The Radical Left is not at all afraid to use the tax tool for what it is really good at, namely to make behaviour move in the direction that we socially think is important. Honey's politics. The tax area is where changes can be made, and using taxes to benefit society is the most important thing for us. To answer about the business package itself, it is clear that it was a conciliation and a compromise, but exactly the part that is about raising money for the entrepreneurial environment in Denmark and doing so in the way they actually proposed themselves, namely with this entrepreneurship panel that the Minister has set up, we think that was a very good move. Perhaps the nut tax was not necessarily what we think society's money should be used for, because we find it difficult to see what the problem of society is solved, but that is how it is to enter into an agreement. There is something you are super happy about, and we are really happy to be able to put the electric heating tax down so that we can get wind power into our heat pumps. That's what politics is. There is something you think is optimal, and something you can change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206155227	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206155229	Nor was it to enter into a dispute over agreements; it was more like such a thing as, for example, the United States. the share savings account. After all, it is neither for entrepreneurs nor for anything green; it is just for the purchase of quoted shares. I find it very difficult to see such a major social purpose by giving a deduction for it or a lower tax for it. But I think this is a very interesting discussion, and I really hope that we can continue. In any case, this is something that we are very concerned about in the Enhedslisten, namely that, to the extent that we give this kind of business support at all, we should use the opportunity, if I may say so, to drive those investments in a sensible direction. One could easily imagine a construction. If you look at Britain and Spain and Italy, there are some interesting precedents, both in terms of sustainability, but also in terms of, for example, sustainability. social economy and what could be called democratic companies, i.e. cooperatives and other things where tax incentives are given, for example. It is also the case that when a company is transferred to employees, what is actually happening to a large extent in many places, especially in southern Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206155329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206155330	As I said, we are not afraid to use the tax tool. We can always look at it when it becomes concrete. As far as the savings account is concerned, it is intended to ensure that more people in this country can become investors, that is to say that the money is not inactive in an account somewhere, but that you can go in and take responsibility for where you invest. We would have liked to see unlisted shares and small and medium-sized enterprises getting a little better conditions in this, but that was not necessarily where the majority wanted to land an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206155400	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. Then we have actually reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206155419	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the President for correcting me earlier when I may have complained a little about the fact that there were several bourgeois politicians who were not present in the Chamber when this is such an important issue, but it was before I found out that a tax agreement was being closed. So there has to be room for that, especially when you are smaller parties, and I am sorry. However, I would like to thank you for today's debate on this proposal. The background is again one can say, because it is something that we have been discussing for many years that last year you could read in Paradise Papers, i.e. from the leaks that came, that 16 out of 17 pension funds had customers' savings in tax havens on islands such as Bermuda, Cayman Island, Isle of Man and Mauritius, and we think that is 16 too much. After all, we have had this discussion for a long time about what it means to be a tax haven and that tax evasion is not necessarily committed because you are present on these islands, but that is not the crux of the matter. The crux of the matter is that these places have such untransparent constructions... creative artificial tax constructions... that it's impossible to find out, and that's the problem. In common with the islands, there is a minimal tax payment, a lack of transparency and a little too creative constructions, as has just been revealed by Paradise Papers and other leaks, and the investment policy of the pension funds therefore runs counter to the work of politicians in Denmark, also the Minister, and in large parts of the world we have set in motion tax havens, and this means in my and SF's optics that pension funds will thereby evade their social responsibility. We are then trying today to put an end to this with the motion for a resolution that is here, which is intended to oblige pension funds to carry out and draw up a policy of social responsibility, not just, I would have said, a CSR note in the financial statements, but a policy that is weighted in line with the chosen return requirement. In our view, there is a sharp contrast between aggressive tax thinking and tax evasion on the one hand and the interest of pension savers and the Danish welfare society on the other. Unfortunately, the contrasts seem to be overlooked when, as a Danish pension fund, you have billions and billions of dollars in investment assets to invest in. Last summer, ATP believed that they were legally obliged to invest in tax havens because they were located in these places, and this is where you got the highest return. I disagreed, and to the praise of the Minister for Employment, I must say that he was also very clear when we had him in consultation in the Committee on Finance, that is to say, really surprisingly clear. There was nothing in the ATP Act to prevent other social considerations, be it environmental, sustainability and SKAT, etc., as long as, of course, the real value of the savings was respected and at least ensured. That was a clear answer, and it is also the answer that I and Mr. Pelle Dragsted has a little wanted today: Can we get the same clear answer from the Minister of Business? For then, at least we should no longer mess around whether it is about the letter of the law, but more about what choices the individual pension companies take. When pension funds ride along on the wave and take advantage of tax havens to bring lucrative gains to their members, they do so, of course, on the basis of consideration for future pension forms of their members. But returns are such a strange amount, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned today. If there is a 1 per cent difference between returns on one side and the other, but the consequences are that investments in black energy are extended, in companies operating from tax havens, and thus we are helping to maintain the regime on which these countries earn a lot of money, and we may directly and indirectly undermine the interests of Danish taxpayers, then it is also quite specific for citizens and for future pensioners, in relation to whether there are jobs for them and for their grandchildren. In the proposal that we are discussing today, I call on the government and the Danish Parliament to ensure that we get it written in black and white a passage about the need to downgrade tax havens and instead prioritise a focus on investments that underpin a common community responsibility. In fact, you risk as a pension payer in addition to supporting tax havens also that your pension goes to invest in the coal and oil industry, in corrupt companies, in gambling with unsafe government bonds in fragile states in Africa etc., not to mention constructions in Israeli illegal settlements in the West Bank with questionable conditions when it comes to human rights. With all these examples, it is clear that social responsibility must be included in the profit-making thinking of pension funds. It is not, as several people have said, that profit and ethics are in themselves contradictory, and it is with these measures and the proposal today that a golden opportunity should be given to deliver not only a healthy pension wealth, but also a more economically responsible, sustainable and greener world. It is about being able to retire with a good conscience, and fortunately that is something that most citizens out there want. Now we also want the pension funds to actively support it. Fortunately, there are positive things happening in this area, every time another immoral case sees the light of day in the press. For example: in the area of tax practices and has committed themselves to a tax doctrine of six points, including that they must comply with the fact that direct investment in developing countries takes place without tax concessions or tax exemption. Others have associated with the UN Global Compact, etc., all with good, fine goals. However, in the end, the errand of this resolution is to ensure that the huge pension assets that are in this country are used to support the political objectives we have, a more sustainable world, a more peaceful world, a world without tax havens that undermine our welfare states, rather than counter it. And I would like to take up the hand of at least a number of people who have said that we in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy are writing a joint report on this and hope that we will be invited to meet with the Minister when we discuss this further. Then I hope, like my colleague Mr. Pelle Dragsted, that we can get a clear and sharp answer from the Minister for Industry, that is, just as sharply as the Minister for Employment who sits here, it was then in connection with the ATP case, so that we no longer have this discussion about how the law is actually arranged. For then we can move on to the most important thing, namely that we are all pushing our pension funds to comply with the things that, fortunately, more and more people want their money to go to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206160239	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206160254	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 8 February 2018. Then I must point out that, due to technical circumstances, the display of speaking time does not work up here at the door of the speaker, and that is why I would kindly like to give the speakers up here when one begins to approach the end of the time allocated if some get that far. But we are starting the debate, and for a explanatory statement it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206160332	Thank you for that, President. The most important thing is that the microphones work, but the clock counts down nicely here, so it may have come to work. But the reason why we have asked this question is that we will find out what initiatives the Minister will take to prevent sick citizens from ending up in a long-term process of resource development as a result of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. In this connection, we have seen a great deal of problems over the ages, and that is also why we in the Danish People's Party secured that we should turn the pile for those who are both sick and on cash assistance for a long time. It has also turned out that a great many people are not supposed to be there at all, but that does not change the fact that there are many who, whether they come from sickness benefits or cash benefits or what benefit they receive, cannot be allowed to get clarification. And then they are placed for a very long time in a process of resource development, and of course we find that totally unreasonable. What is most important for those who are ill, those who need to have a process of resources, is that they are allowed to have clarification, that is, that they should not just be placed and then actually be able to take care of themselves, because then the municipalities have peace and quiet. That is why, of course, it is also quite obvious that after we had the conference on the development of resources on 31 January, to which the Minister was also invited, and when the Minister actually said that something was going on, there would be a proposal from the conciliation circle. The minister then didn't tell me when it was gonna come. But that is why we are interested to hear: has the conciliation circle come up with something that we can be told? So, are there some changes going on here that make people not just being placed in a resource cycle? We remember that the last time the conciliation circle came up with something that was sent out to the municipalities, the municipalities said: yes, yes, it is just a guide, we do not follow it anyway. That is why something more firm is also needed in this regard. So, of course, we are very interested in hearing: Is there anything on the way? What progress has been made in the conciliation circle? Can we already say something about what is going to happen, which is for the benefit of those who feel misplaced and cannot be allowed to have a process of resources or perhaps are in a process of resource which they have been told can take five years, which is quite inappropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206160619	That was the explanatory statement, thank you for it. Then it is for the answer to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206160625	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for putting this important theme on the agenda... a theme that we also had the opportunity to discuss in the last assembly. Let me start by thanking the Employment Committee for a very good conference held last week on this subject, on which I myself had the opportunity to take part in a few hours of the conference. I think that was worth it, and I think it was a good and nuanced discussion of the whole issue of pre-time reform and flex-job reform that took place. I would like to make two points. Sick citizens should not be dragged through every conceivable effort if you can see in advance that it does not make sense. The conciliation circle and I are closely following the area, and it has always been our clear view that action must be taken when there is evidence that the law does not work according to the political intentions underlying the political agreement that was made under the then Minister for Employment, Mrs Mette Frederiksen. That is why we also met on Thursday, the day after the parliamentary hearing, and there we discussed the advanced partial evaluation of the rules for granting early retirement. The partial evaluation indicates that it is not sufficiently clear in the legislation which citizens can be granted early retirement without having first been in the process of resource development. This has meant that some municipalities have interpreted the rules more strictly than others and have sent citizens in the course of resource development, even if they could have received an early retirement pension. We have therefore just agreed to amend the legislation of this Assembly so that the rules for granting early retirement are clarified. It is therefore good news today to be able to take a start on this question debate, because I have been through several consultations, where we have discussed this question of resource sequences and also the part which formed the basis for some of the questions I myself attended in the last session, and it has to be said that the whole question of resource sequences has filled a great deal. That is also part of the motivation that the rapporteur had in relation to the debate here. The legislative amendment which is now being submitted to consultation must ensure that vulnerable citizens who do not have the prospect of developing their ability to work do not go into resource development and that the granting of early retirement and visitation to the resource cycle are more uniform. After all, as I said, we were all together on Wednesday at the committee's hearing on the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, where I also had the opportunity to express my clear position on the subject. And today's question also gives me the opportunity to sum up and, above all, tell you what has happened since the hearing, and here I am thinking of the decision to clarify the law, and I have just opened the bag for that, if I may say so. But let's just recall some of the story... at least the shorter story. In August, the conciliation circle and I agreed to bring forward a central part of the evaluation of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, namely the part which deals with the legal framework for granting early retirement. A number of municipalities had stated during the summer of 2017 that the rules for granting early retirement are imprecise and that they are formulated inappropriately tight. The municipalities' position was that it gave rise to municipal variation and that very sick citizens without a realistic development potential are sent in resource sequences. The partial evaluation has been completed and it is also being sent to the committee here today. I think it will be, just as I am speaking here and after the discussions on Thursday, we have just agreed that in this session we are putting forward a legislative proposal laying down the rules on the requirement of proof for the granting of early retirement pensions and the rules on the running of resources. In fact, the partial evaluation shows that in practice there are different understandings of when it is necessary for the granting of early retirement that the municipality can provide concrete evidence that action has been taken in the form of a programme of resources. In other words, some municipalities have adopted the practice and interpretation that they must always implement a process of resource development if it cannot be excluded that the ability to work can be developed through a process of resource development. However, the idea of resource sequences is that it is a prerequisite for putting it into effect that efforts can be identified where there is a realistic expectation that the citizen can benefit from it and thus also in the long term can develop his or her ability to work. These two things don't really add up. In the conciliation circle, we have then agreed that the letter, which was issued on 14 March 2017, on the progress of resources, describes very well the documentation requirement for the award of early retirement pensions and the intentions with resource sequences. The amendment of the law must therefore ensure that there is no doubt that the content of the letter is consistent with the rules. The clarification of the rules must clarify two things. Firstly, the requirement to provide evidence of early retirement in certain situations can be met without the citizen having participated in a process of resource development, and secondly, it is necessary to point out that efforts can be made where there is a realistic expectation that the citizen can benefit from the effort and develop his or her ability to work. It is also very important for me to emphasise today that we have involved the Attorney-General, who has been involved in the legislative preparatory work and has helped to qualify the bill. And it is not necessarily to say that the citizen in order for it not to be debatable, but to ensure that it has not only been the very talented employees and lawyers of the Ministry of Employment who have looked at this issue, that we have also consulted the DA to get to the bottom of this issue, which I also know several members of the Employment Committee are interested in. Enough on partial evaluation and its results and solutions. This leads me on to say a few words about the overall evaluation, which is expected to be completed by the end of this month, that is to say at the end of February. As you know, this is a very comprehensive and in-depth evaluation of the whole area of reform. The evaluation shall include, inter alia: a new user survey among all target groups and a large analysis of resource sequences and flex jobs. In addition, there is an analysis of the coordinated multi-disciplinary approach in relation to case workers, health model and rehabilitation teams. In other words, we are coming all the way around and lighting up every corner of the reform. The overall evaluation must give us more knowledge and thus a stronger place for conciliation to discuss the reform itself and also the need to make further adjustments if that is the case. I would also like to say here today that I am completely open to this, just as a year ago, when we discussed it in the last assembly, I also told Finn Sørensen that I am quite open to the fact that, when we look at the great evaluation, we are looking at whether there may be corners that require change. But what is, of course, the difference here is that on the part concerning the accelerated partial evaluation, which is about clarifications in the law, it is being proposed that we get it adopted in this Assembly. We in the conciliation circle have committed each other to doing so, and then it is clear that the great evaluation here cannot be translated into legislation in this Assembly, but will then be able to be translated into legislation in the forthcoming assembly of parliaments. After all, it is not as I said at the conference that we know nothing about the state of the reform. In general, we have to say that the reform has been criticised, but I also think it is important today to stress that the truth is very, very different, because in many ways the reform has produced very good results in a wide variety of areas. One out of every three of the 8,300 citizens who have departed from resource delivery up to and including the second quarter of 2017 has come closer to the labour market: either they have entered employment, have entered a flexible job scheme or have started training. And a national user survey from 2016 among citizens in resource sequences shows that most citizens are satisfied with their resource cycle: 43%. is satisfied, 33 percent. is dissatisfied, and then there are some who answer by not or have failed to answer. The most satisfied citizens are those who themselves want a process of resource development, and they are especially young people and citizens with mental disorders. I also note that there is particular satisfaction with the business-oriented offers, which are also some of the things that we know to work best when it comes to getting citizens back on the labour market, and that was also some of the points that were highlighted during the hearing last week at Christiansborg, where both those who have had good experience of the reform and those who have had less good experience of the reform were very nuanced and well described. I would also like to say that I look forward to the new user survey so that we get a new, updated picture that will be included in the overall assessment. After all, the reform has meant that we have created a more inclusive flex-job system in which citizens with a very small working capacity can actually get their resources in play. Right now, more than 25,000 citizens work with a significantly reduced working capacity in a flex job of up to 10 hours a week in the so-called mini-flex jobs. The many results are a step in the right direction. In particular, it is important that more citizens today receive the right help and support through efforts to bring them closer to the labour market. It is also important, however, that early retirement should continue to be granted to those citizens who are so ill or have such significant disability that it is quite obvious that their ability to work cannot be improved. This is what characterizes a welfare society: there must also be room to help those who, for one reason or another, no longer have the opportunity to contribute. Early retirement was not abolished with the reform, although some may want it to sound that way. In 2017, approx. 9,700 new early retirement pensions, and in 2012, i.e. before the reform, it was 14,750. We have reduced the number, which was also part of the purpose of the reform, but we have certainly not stopped for awards, and that is, I think, fundamental to make clear. Having said that, the conciliation circle, and I myself, are fully aware that we are still facing major challenges in this area, and that is why, once we have seen all the documents underlying it, we will be able to carry out a very thorough evaluation of the whole reform in the course of the spring. This evaluation must provide us with a solid basis for looking at further adjustments precisely to ensure that the challenges that may be are highlighted and that they are also politically addressed, with a view to whether or not there is something that needs to be adjusted. My focus in this regard will be to ensure that the reform meets the high expectations we had when it was decided. We are making a long-term investment in those citizens who are furthest away from the labour market, and therefore it is also essential that what is being put into effect is done on an enlightened basis and is in the right direction and makes sense. I will look forward to continuing to discuss this, both with the conciliation circle and for good reasons also with the Employment Committee, which will, for many reasons, be kept informed of the continued development.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206161816	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Then we start the negotiations. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206161830	Thank you for that, President. And to the minister: The cougher passes over in six weeks, so there are bright points ahead. I think it is a good thing that the Minister is today saying that the conciliation circle has come up with a solution to help those who are long-term in the process of resources and those who cannot be allowed to go into a process of resources, even if they want to, but have just been hidden away in the municipalities. But we must also say that the clues of the last time scare where a solution came, where a letter was sent out to the municipalities, and then the mayors and labour market leaders said: yes, it may be, but we decide what we do. So I hope that this is such a firmer piece of legislation this time. We'll see when it comes. But what the Minister has said up here, I think we should welcome until proven otherwise. I really hope this will solve the problem. Because there is a big difference between those who need to have a resource cycle. We know that. In the study in which the pile of cash benefits recipients who are ill or long-term on cash benefits were turned, we could see that there were over 5,000 of those they had investigated who were not supposed to be there at all. Some of them were going into resource sequences. Some of them also needed more handheld help in this regard. But we know that there are a lot of people who go without being able to get a flow of resources. Then they have to join a rehabilitation team, and there we are missing that the rehabilitation team could have a crucial word to say about what is going to happen. But they can just assess whether people are fit to get into resource sequences. Perhaps we should look at whether they should also have the opportunity to decide matters and thus facilitate the efforts of the municipalities. Because it's professionals in the rehabilitation team. What is the big problem is that this is obviously pointless in sending them in clarification. No one has really been able to find out. I also hope that this means that we do not need to hear any more about the fact that there are some who need to clarify whether they can work less than one hour. Because that is obviously pointless for many of those groups. There must be a bottom line where they are said not to go into resource sequences. They just need to clarify whether they need an early retirement pension or perhaps a flexible job. It is not everyone who has something to do with getting in the way of resources. This is also what the Minister says that there must be a difference between it and that it must be possible to point to interventions that benefit the citizen in order for them to be in a process of resource development. I think that sounds really good. Then we just have to make sure that the Minister also ensures that the municipalities comply with the efforts that need to be made in relation to the new law. Because if you just send out to the municipalities and they say that it isn't legislation, but only guidance, then we are equal. I also hope that there will be further follow-up to this. I also understand that the conciliation circle has not finished looking at measures to benefit those who are on early retirement and in flexible jobs. But the short part of the length is that we so sincerely hope that when this comes into force in the new Assembly, as the Minister has said here today, we will be spared several of the cases where we hear about people who cannot get into a process of clarification or a process of resources, but will just be placed on cash aid without any more happening to them. Because that is what we should like to avoid, so that those who come on cash benefits are those who also have to be, and so that we take care of those who are too sick and who have more diseases. Many of these people who are walking and unable to get clarification are some who have several disease cycles behind them. It may be combined with many different diseases. But they are just allowed to go on cash aid because the municipalities can see that it is a little hopeless to grab them and that they cannot be put into the labour market. But you would not say that they should have an early retirement pension or a flexible job, and that is something that we think needs to be done. In the Danish People's Party, we also think that we should look at whether there should be a bottom line for these mini-flex jobs. It is not fair that you should be tested to be able to get a flex job of 1⁄2 hours. It's something you can offer. If you can do that, you must also have that option, if that is what you would rather do. And then I can see that time has passed. The clock's on zero, so it works good enough. But I have a proposal for adoption. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and Alternativet, I hereby submit: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the Government has taken the initiative to clarify the legislation on early retirement and flexible jobs. However, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to propose concrete legislative changes to ensure that sick citizens are not placed in a long-term process of resources and to put forward proposals to speed up the clarification of affected citizens. At the same time, the government is encouraged to look at the possibility of giving the rehabilitation team a decisive influence on whether a citizen should have early retirement or flexible jobs. • V 34).
ParlaMint-DK_20180206162431	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206162441	Thank you for that, President. I think it is a very good debate to take, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking it up. I would like to start by telling you a little about the intentions of the reforms, that is to say what they really meant when the Social Democrats were in charge of these reforms. In other words, the intention of early retirement was, and still is, that if you are so ill and feel so bad that you cannot work and there is no development potential in you, you have to have an early retirement pension. I can still hear from the Minister for Employment, and we still have to get away from that, because we should not be so poor a country that we cannot afford to give people the peace they need, and we must still be able to do so, and we still have the opportunity to do so. It is clear that the intention is also that we will not abandon those people either. But we actually think we do. If we take and put someone on early retirement who has the opportunity to develop into actually getting closer to getting a job, then we think we will fail them if we do not help them and try to develop them and give them the opportunity to get closer to the labour market. We think this was done before the reform, and that is why we made the tool called resource sequences. Resource progress has gradually become a foyer, we have to admit that, but it was in fact intended that it should be a tool. The individual had to come into the municipality and have a process of resource development and feel that there were some people, that there was a system, that there was a community that would like to do something for those who would like to help them closer to the labour market, who would like to join them, but not over their heads, to ensure that they had a better life. That was the whole idea of the resource cycle, and it still is. I have no doubt that if it is the case that a process of resources works and the individual is quite well with it and actually goes to the municipality and happy home again, the process of resources also works. So one can ask oneself: has it gone well? You can say 'yes' and 'no' to that, because I have also seen it in some municipalities. I have visited Silkeborg, but I live in Norddjurs myself, and I can say that the two municipalities actually provide a good amount of early retirement, and in the two municipalities, the citizens say, if you ask them, that they are actually happy to get into resource development. For it is resource sequences in relation to the intentions we had with it when we made resource sequences. But I also have to say that we also hear a lot of stories that it really hasn't worked and that these people are being chased around in all kinds of weird work tests. And we must by no means put up with that, and neither will we, because people need to be treated properly. That is why, in the conciliation circle with the Minister in the lead, we have produced guidance, travel teams and letters of orientation, but we can still see that there are huge problems. One might then ask oneself: is it not up to the municipalities to get their act together? Or is it the law that needs to be more precise? And I'd say it's both. That is why we have heard from the Minister's suggestion, which we all support in the conciliation circle, that we do not necessarily have to go into the process of resources in order to get an early retirement pension. You have to document your efforts and you have to prove whether there is a realistic possibility of developing your ability to work if you start a process of resource development. Is that something we can count on? Yeah. In any case, the attorney general says that this one is very clear and that it is unmistakable. It's more ready than it used to be. That's why I hope this is gonna be really good. Now, basically, we need to treat people properly. We simply have to get away from what has happened, because we cannot be familiar with that. I therefore hope and believe that this will have a good effect. Is this enough? No, not at all. We're in the process of evaluating everything to find out what to look at. Of course, we need to look at all the other things that don't work either. I can say there are many things that we bring to the Minister in the Social Democratic Party, and I can mention a few things. For example: should we focus on whether citizens have the rights they should have: do they have the opportunity to say no, do they have the opportunity to complain, do they have the opportunity to do what they should be able to do? We also need to look at an early effort, because it is completely crazy that these people can go, from they get resource sequences, until 1 or 2 years have passed before an effort is actually made. It's not gonna last. Sick people do not get well by letting them go, they must have a good effort, which was the intention of it. So to the end, which is the proper way in which the case is handled: we must treat people properly. There are far too many examples of people being treated badly. You've been talking bad to them and stuff like that. I can't do that. And these things we need to get hold of. That is why I am very much looking forward to the evaluation. I very much believe that exactly the clarification we have made today helps these people, and that is what we need to focus on. This helps to say to the people: If you are going to have early retirement and that is really what you need, you must have early retirement, and then you must have peace and quiet for it, and then you should not just be chased around in all sorts of silly resource programs; but if there is any development in you, then because we kind of want to help you to a better life, we will do everything we can to give you a good resource course with you, so you feel safe and you feel that this is what we are doing for you. That is the whole intention of it, and that is what we are going for in this clarification, and that is what we are going for when we are going to evaluate. And then I shall read out a text for adoption, President. First Vice-President We shall hear that). Thank you. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservative People's Party, I have to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the conciliation circle behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs in the current parliamentary assembly will clarify the rules in the field of reform. Clarifications must be made clear: that early retirement can be granted without prior periods of resources in cases where, because of special circumstances (health) it is quite obvious that the person's ability to work cannot be improved, but also in cases where it is demonstrated (2) that it is quite obvious that his or her ability to work cannot be improved. That it is a prerequisite for the implementation of resource processes, that efforts can be identified where there is a realistic expectation that the citizen can benefit from the effort and, in the long term, improve his or her situation and be able to participate in the labour market, for example. in a flex job. The Danish Parliament notes that in spring 2018 the conciliation circle will discuss further adjustments to the reform area on the basis of the overall evaluation. • V 35).
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163053	Thank you. That too is part of the debate. And the debate continues with a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163101	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for finally recognising that it is not enough to say that the municipalities should now just pull themselves together and that the law is good enough. For that I have met with countless times over the years when I have raised this issue and criticised the legislation. Then I have been told that it is quite apart from the fact that the municipalities just need to get their act together. So it is appreciated, and it has been said without any irony in the voice and with a pleasure that we have come so far that we are now discussing concrete legislative changes. Then the rest of us will have to see if they live up to the good intentions. So I'm not going to comment on that any further right now. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: if we are now rewinding the agreement on early retirement and flexible work, which was not an agreement, but a settlement, it said that it would save 1.9 billion. kr. in 2020 and around 4 billion. kr., when it was fully phased, is that saving target still in effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163214	I would say that I have said several times from the platform and several times in the press that the municipalities should pull themselves together, and I still mean that away. Because, as I said before, there were actually some municipalities that could deliver, and so a lot of people could not. We have also said that if it is the case that we need to clarify the legislation, then we are doing the same. It has now turned out that we should, and so have we. That is why I am still holding back the fact that we have done so, so the municipalities must now take extra care of themselves. Now they just have to deliver, because now they have the clarification that was important. The attorney general actually says that if they do what they did in the past, they simply haven't interpreted the law correctly, and then it's a reverse. So now I actually have to say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen, that I can rightly say that we are now where the municipalities need to get their act together. All those economic issues are exactly what we are going to look at in the evaluation. We will look at how things have turned out and how many have received and how many have not received, and we will be much, much wiser when the evaluation is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163319	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163320	What I asked was that what the conciliation says is that by 2020 1.9 billion will have to be saved. kr. in early retirement and the flex-job scheme. And fully phased, in the much longer term, admittedly, it is approx. 4 billion kr. It is in a settlement and a settlement is binding on all the parties that have signed it. Then I think it is quite important that we are able to know whether the savings target is in place or whether the parties are willing if it turns out that the new change proposed here means that there will be more early retirement grants and the whole thing will be more expensive, so that it will be relaxed. It is quite important to know what the parties to the conciliation think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163402	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163404	It is a very, very large reform, and it is a reform in which it has been done and thought it completely different and it was also necessary • than has been done in the past. That is why it is a huge regulation, and that is why we find that something has worked and something has not worked. That is something we have admitted. That is why we have made a clarification; that is why we have done all the things we have done. The question that Finn raised is also going to be looked at. That is why we can look much more closely at how the intentions and wishes we had then worked, and that is something we will also be discussing. But I think that the conciliation circle has proved that when there is something that we think does not work, we change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163438	I think the Finn mentioned was Mr. Finn Sørensen. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163443	Thank you. What has been done sounds really good, but you also have to be careful because it has not been finally put into practice yet. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says that if there is no prospect of moving forward, you should not go through a process of resource development. That is also what the Minister is saying. This is the point: if it is obvious that it is pointless to get through a process of resource development, you have to have an early retirement pension. However, could the rapporteur perhaps explain a little about who makes the decision following the new measures that we should not go through a process of resource development? For as it is today, it is after all a case worker in the municipality or who it is, and not the rehabilitation team, who decides if you can get an early retirement pension. But who is it according to the new rules here who has to make the decision that something is obviously pointless and that therefore we do not have to go through it all? Is there any change there in the actions, or is it the same people who have to sit and make the decision, but just new rules that you have to check whether they live up to?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163552	I'd like to say to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that these aren't new rules. Actually, it's not. These are some rules that we made when we made the early retirement reform. That was the intention. We've just clarified it, so the intentions that were then, we've hit now, they're just sitting closet-- hopefully. When I say "hopefully," it's because I have to lean on what the DA says exactly, because of course I have to expect him to be in control of that. That is why it is, of course, the same people who have to do it. It is of course the municipalities; it is of course the rehabilitation team; it is of course the ones who sit out there. I don't see who else it would be. But the difference is that now they've got some very clear rules so they can't just do what they want. As you can see, Norddjurs Municipality gave many early retirement, the City of Copenhagen gave few. It will be much more uniform because it is much simpler. And if you look at it from the Chamber Attorney's Office, you can see that he actually says that if they do not interpret it the same way, it is the expression of a patently incorrect interpretation of the rules. Therefore, I just have to say that this is why we have helped those people by creating more precise and clear rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163659	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163700	I am so excited to see who has to interpret those rules and whether from in here, perhaps from the Ministry or perhaps from the conciliation circle, you have to make a clear interpretation that you send out to the municipalities so that they have nothing to be mistaken about. Because it's the same people who have to sit and interpret the rules. The last time guides were sent out was the answer from the municipalities: we will decide for ourselves, it is only a guide. This is a clarification of the rules. Then it may well be that the DA says it is a better clarification, and if they do not follow that, they do not live up to the law. But it is still the same people who sit and decide matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163738	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163740	Now I'm just feeling that Mr. Simpson... Bent Bøgsted talks to talk, 'cause it's the same people. But it's always easier to do your job properly if the rules are somewhat clearer than they used to be. That is why we have delivered what the municipalities wanted. After all, it is the six largest municipalities and many other municipalities that, with the politicians and these in the lead, have come to us and have said: Can you make clearer rules for those who make it easier for us? We already have. That is why we have delivered, and now they have to understand the rules, also the municipalities just have to get started and solve the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163811	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163814	Thank you. I think it sounds incredibly promising and good that this is such a constructive work and a work that looks as if it leads to concrete results. And I am so curious to hear a little more, that is to say, whether the rapporteur can lift the veil a little more about what kind of rule change has been made that ensures that municipalities do so much of a uniform management of this reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163842	Now I know Mr. Torsten Gejl as a very curious and decent person, and I am sure that when Mr. Torsten Gejl sees this, he'll think it's really good too. But it is simply a question of saying clearly to those people out there: these sick people should not have a course of resources for everything in the world. If you have found that they cannot develop and there is no development potential, then they must of course have an early retirement pension. But if you then come to the conclusion that they need to have a process of resources, you actually now have to document why they need to have a process of resources and what development potential there is in it; and they also have to document the efforts in it. And it's quite different than it used to be. It has, in fact, been turned around a little, which was the intention, so that instead of proving whether you are sick enough, it should actually now be proved how to move forward, how to be helped properly, and how the ability to work that you think you have can be developed through a good process of resource development. I look forward to it very much, and I really hope that this will now be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163944	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206163954	Thank you for that, and thank you to the authors for raising a relevant and important debate on how to prevent sick citizens from being placed in a long-term process of resources without perspective. No citizen should be left behind, that must be the success criterion of our welfare society. We live in a rich, solidarity society where we can be helped on the right path if we need help for one reason or another. No one who can make a valuable effort should sit over. That is why I am also pleased that people in even difficult situations have the opportunity to receive support to clarify and improve their ability to function. This option provides a sequence of resources. The reform of flexible jobs and early retirement has been an important step forward for sick and vulnerable citizens in Denmark. That's how five chief doctors wrote in a post to the Weekwriting for Doctors back in 2015. The chief medical examiners build up the claim with the initial good experience of resource progression. The reform has allowed citizens with complex issues to rehabilitate and develop resources to enable them to do a job. The aim is to find precisely the job or training appropriate to the individual's ability to work. I fully recognise that, unfortunately, there are also examples of flows of resources where efforts do not lead to progress and where it would have been much better from the practical experience to set aside for early retirement from the start. We must learn a lesson from this. As in other areas, as the previous rapporteur has also mentioned, the results differ from one municipality to another. An analysis by the Danish Employers' Association from January last year showed that, for example, more than one out of every three 78 citizens in Hedensted Municipality, who had been through a resource course, had ended up in either an ordinary job, education, flexible jobs or unemployment benefit. Experience shows, of course, that many citizens have been happy with their resource processes because their challenges have been addressed and they have been helped to recover their potential. On the other hand, only 6% came. of those who completed a resource cycle in Odense, closer to the labour market in the form of an ordinary job, training, flex jobs or unemployment benefit. So we can see that there is also a basis for learning from each other's experiences around the municipalities. It is not acceptable, of course, that sick people without hope for a future in the labour market should be placed in a long-term process of resource development that has never been the intention. The Danish labour market is so flexible that there is a possibility of employment in a flex job a few hours a week, and in 2017 there were about 25,000 people employed in a flex job of up to 10 hours a week, a so-called miniflex job. After all, this had become a real opportunity with the implementation of the reform. That was 62%. of all flex jobs on the new scheme. These are good examples of citizens gradually getting used to a greater workload as their potential increases. This is positive because it shows that there is room in the startup setup for those who have the opportunity to be an active player. I welcome that. In Denmark there is room for everyone, including those with reduced working capacity. That is why early retirement is also an option only when all hope is out for a place in the labour market. I welcome the system of resource sequences which helps citizens at the edge of the labour market to clarify the future. I call on the municipalities to learn from each other's good experiences because, just as more citizens have a potential to be found, this is also true in the municipalities. Finally, it must be said that we still lack the evaluation of the whole reform. It probably shows that we can make the reform even better by adjusting some gripes compared to, for example. the sequences of resources. However, we have already launched several initiatives to fine-tune the reform. A practical guide has been prepared for the municipalities with good advice to put together a good programme of resources. By 2017, we have presented the municipalities with a letter of orientation which stressed that efforts in resource development must never worsen the health of citizens and that it must make sense in the individual citizen's situation to get into a process of resource development. That does not mean that we are in the finish line. However, the Left very much welcomes the fact that today we can publish an agreement which the conciliation parties behind the early retirement and flexible job reform have concluded, specifying the rules for granting early retirement. The individual proposals have been referred to by the Minister and the previous rapporteur, so I should just like to conclude by saying that the Left is looking forward to dealing with these proposals for clarification of the legislation on the granting of early retirement pensions in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164534	There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164538	Thank you. It's just a question for the chronology of all this. That is because there is talk of advanced partial evaluations, and it sounds like there is a fairly good pace, but isn't it true that this reform was really supposed to be evaluated in 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164602	Yes, it is absolutely correct that we should spend 2017 on evaluating the overall reform. That is also what has happened, and the result would then be here after New Year. And what we then decided back in August was to speed up the part of the evaluation which was about the granting of early retirement, so that we were already able to take a position here early 2018 on any changes in the granting of early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164639	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164645	Thank you. We are fighting a slightly unequal battle here, because the conciliation parties have been so nice that the hour of dispatch of the agreement they have made to a time when the rest of us have no opportunity to deal with it, so we have that benefit. I would just like to ask the rapporteur the same question that I asked him. Leif Lahn Jensen: Is the original savings target agreed in connection with this reform • 1.9 billion. kr. per year in savings in 2020 and approx. 4 billion kr., when it is fully phased away still by force?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164729	The economic framework of the reform remains, as it were, firm. The clarifications we are proposing to make here ensure that the practice in some municipalities is addressed so that it complies with the original economic framework of the reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164757	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164758	Thank you very much. Does this mean that there has been some air, that is, a saving in that reform, understood in such a way that we have not saved or, to put it bluntly, not spent the money we actually had to spend? That's what it's all about? I can also ask in another way: is it expected that more early retirement will be granted than was originally expected, as a result of the change that has now been agreed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164839	The change in practice that I mentioned would lead to these clarifications would mean that a smaller proportion of early retirement pensioners would be granted early retirement at an earlier stage than there is today's practice. This also means that a little less will be in a process of resource development than we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164912	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206164916	Thank you. This is a bit tricky, because on the one hand it is said that legislative changes are being made and now it is being tightened up really, and on the other it is being said that it is clarification of existing legislation. In other words, there is nothing in the legislation itself that changes as such, apart from specifying how the rules should be interpreted. That's how I get it. Otherwise, sir. Hans Andersen corrects me in that understanding. But that is a clarification of the existing rules, that is what I understand. But the problem is that if you have not really understood the purpose of what the conciliation circle has wanted here, then we are in the same situation that there is no change. It can be equally difficult. Last time the same thing was said that now we are tightening up and new instructions were sent out, yet the municipalities acted in a different way. Is it the case that it has been agreed with the Ombudsman that the Ombudsman intervenes if the municipalities do not follow the rules? Or how do you check that they follow the new rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165024	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165027	The clarifications we are going to make in the legislation need to clarify two things. The requirement to obtain an early retirement pension may, in exceptional cases, be met without the citizen participating in a course of resources without the citizen participating in the course of resources. This has not been the case in all places in the past, according to the opinion of the municipalities. The next is that it is a prerequisite for initiating a process of resource development that the municipality can point to interventions where it has a realistic expectation that the citizen can benefit from that effort and develop his or her ability to work. That is the second point that needs to be clarified. So yes, there will be clarification of the legal text itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165119	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165120	Sir. Hans Andersen says that this thing about getting an early retirement pension without having been in resource development could not be done earlier. However, if the municipality decided that it was an obvious case, then early retirement could be granted without taking part in resource development. You used to. The new rules can then be used to do so. This is being tightened up, it is being made clear that now it needs to be a little clearer. But it's just that it's the same people who have to sit and decide it without the rehabilitation team really having an impact on it. How are we going to ensure that they also live up to those rules? How are you going to intervene if they don't?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165200	The current rules are such that, if it is quite obvious that there is no working capacity, an early retirement pension can be granted on the basis of this. So do municipalities. However, some municipalities have taken the view that, if it is not quite obvious that there is no working capacity, it is necessary to initiate resource processes in order to determine whether there can be a working capacity. The clarification we are now making is that it is not necessary in all cases. There you can also grant an early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165233	With a very flexible interpretation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Mr. Torsten Gejl now the opportunity to ask his second question in 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165242	Thank you very, very much. It was about chronology, namely that there has been an advanced partial evaluation, which has now had this consequence. But the main evaluation, that is, the one that should have come in 2017, will only come in 2018, as far as I understand. Have I understood correctly that it may be that the last regulation of this reform to address the problems that are will not be in autumn 2018 or perhaps not until 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165308	I expect the overall evaluation to be available here in a very short space of time. Then we will have to discuss it in the conciliation circle, and there we have not yet set the date when we will do so. And then, of course, we have to deal with whether this leads, if necessary, to changes that have to result in some new legislation. That is where I expect this new legislation to be adopted in the coming parliamentary year, which starts in autumn 2019. And that can happen immediately after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165338	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165349	Thank you. As I said from my place, it's a little odd, because there are some who know what they've been sitting and agreeing. Unfortunately, the time has passed for them so that they could not finish it in time to send it over to the Folketing before this inquiry debate. We must live with that, and we must then deal with what is being said. But let me first say that, when we look at the whole long process we have had, it is, of course, satisfactory that we can now discuss concrete legislative changes. As I also said a little earlier, it is very many times that the Enhedslisten and also other parties here in the Danish Parliament have raised the question whether there should be anything wrong with the legislation, since we can see one example after another that people are being sent through at best grueling and useless and, at worst, directly harmful resource processes, and that it is approved by the Ankestyrelsen and the civil courts. Then there must be something wrong with the legislation. That conclusion has been sought by you many times, and there we have had something that looks like a concession in that respect. How high up we must then raise our arms, time must show, but I have to say that when I look at the wordings of the press release that have been issued, some questions arise, and then I think there is good reason to look very carefully at what they really are for some wordings that are being used in the draft law that comes out. In the case of conciliation parties, it is evident that in some cases the requirement to obtain an early retirement pension may have been met without the citizen having participated in a process of resource development. There's nothing new about that. That's what the law already says. Then perhaps there is something that is a little new here: it is a prerequisite for initiating resource processes that the municipality can point to interventions where there is a realistic expectation that the citizen can develop his or her ability to work. The little word realistically is not in the law today. We must recognise and acknowledge this if there is any meat on it, for who will interpret what is realistic? The municipalities do that, because that is the way the law is drawn up. And part of the explanation for the many unhappy courses we have seen and the many unhappy examples of how people have been excused and tortured in practice and resource development is the economic iron grip in which the municipalities have been held. That is why one gets a little worried when the rapporteur of the Left is standing up here saying: well, the austerity targets laid down in this reform are still missing. It says something about the fact that, unless it is cut very, very sharply, what the municipalities should and should not do, we risk the accidents continuing. There is reason to pay close attention to this. So that should be my comment on the further discussion, and I look forward very much to seeing the text of the agreement itself. I can't really find it, but maybe that's what they wrote in the press release. In particular, we look forward to the practical formulation of a legislative proposal. I would like to say that it is not the Attorney-General who has to interpret how the municipalities are to administer the law. Neither is the Folketing, nor is the Minister. It is in the first place the municipalities themselves that interpret how the law is to be applied, and then it is the Ankestyrelsen and the civil courts. There must be experience after five years of struggle for this reform, where virtually all the negative predictions that came from the critics here in the Danish Parliament and from a large number of organisations outside have come true, have told us and I hope that is what turns out to be that if you are to prevent the municipalities from whip people around in all these processes, then the text of the law must be very, very clear and there must be clear rights for the citizens. I think that if they had been there, we would probably have been presented to them, but we have to wait eagerly for what is to be proposed of changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165839	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165843	I'm in complete agreement with Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen in that the situation in recent years has clearly been that there have been too few early retirement pensions. But I'd like to know if Mr. Finn Sørensen or perhaps another heartfelt soul in Enhedslisten has reflected on the situation we were in in 2011, where 17,000 early retirements were awarded. So, in the vicinity of a third of a birth year was sent on permanent public support in 2011. In 2014 it had fallen to 14,000, but I still want to ask: is this a fair way of treating people that they are pushed out of the labour market? What are the reflections in the Enhedslisten that 17,000, i.e. one third of a birth year, are sent on early retirement? Is it a fair level to be at, or could Enhedslisten imagine that tools were used to maintain people in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206165932	As I said, even when we were dealing with the law, there were already instruments in the legislation in force to help people enter the labour market. They just wouldn't be used because they were obviously too expensive because they needed to be saved. There was no hiding at the time that this was a saving exercise. And so I feel that if people cannot support themselves through a job, they must have a proper subsidy, and I do not regard a resource-flowing benefit which is at the level of cash aid as a proper subsidy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170006	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170010	So we were confirmed that Enhedslisten believes that it is a good and rich society that leaves a third of a birth year on public support rather than handing them a hand so that they can enter the labour market. That brings me to the next question: what does Mr. Finn Sørensen actually about the growth that has been in relation to flex jobs is it good, or is it bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170028	I do not really think that the rapporteur was listening because already then, and one can rewind and look at the law-making process, Enhedslisten pointed out that there were plenty of tools that could be used to help people enter the labour market. And most would like that; they would then, and they will today. In relation to the growth in the number of flex jobs, the Ministry itself has issued some plans which point to what the problem might be in the new miniflex job scheme, and I cannot answer that, but hopefully someone else is asking for it so that I can finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170103	You can easily be allowed to answer. You just have to dispose of the minute that you have at your disposal. Finn Sørensen I know that). Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170109	Now it is the case that the conciliation circle and the social democracy think it is really nice and a great win-win situation for the individual and for the whole society when the individual goes from passive support to being in work. I just have to understand how Enhedslisten and Mr. Finn Sørensen's looking at it. Does it really look like a saving exercise when someone goes from passive support to work? Is it in mr. Finn Sørensen's world a saving exercise?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170137	I think we should deal with the excellent figures we have. We can just go back to September last year, when the Ministry was kind enough to send out some plans about the situation in which the people who have completed a process of resource development find themselves, and it is less than 3% that has come into ordinary work. It speaks clearly of the fact that this reform has not led to more people entering normal employment than perhaps barely 3%.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170215	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170216	That means that it's obviously fine for Enhedslisten... now I know how Enhedslisten thinks... that there are a lot of people on early retirement, and Mr. Finn Sørensen seems to think that you should just roll it back to then, when there were a lot of early retirements that actually managed to get in flex jobs and other things. It's fine. That is just how it is when the world is perfect. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170240	It has to be said that this was a nice plat interpretation of what I have said twice here from the platform, namely that we are warm supporters of that, we were then, and today we are offering help to citizens who have the opportunity to get back into the labour market. And there were also at that time, when the reform was being carried out, the necessary tools that the conciliation parties just did not want to use, because 1.9 billion had to be saved. kr. It is evident that it still has to grow to approx. 4 billion kr. in the longer term.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170317	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170319	Thank you. The rapporteur and I had such an exchange of views just now. To follow up on that, I just need to know if Mr. Finn Sørensen got it all, because what I said was that with the clarification we are now making, a smaller proportion of early retirement workers will get an earlier award in line with the intentions behind the reform. The previous award is expected to lead to a correspondingly lower number of people in resource sequences. And that's why I'm thinking that today, sir. Finn Sørensen is a very happy man, because I understand that this has been one of the purposes of putting the next question and one of the objectives of Mr Sørensen. Finn Sørensen's political work means that we are actually now ensuring that more early retirement is granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170425	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170426	Well, it is quite obvious that if what you are going to propose actually leads to a little more people getting their early retirement without having to go through the process of resource development, then I can only rejoice so much on behalf of those people. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170444	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170444-2	Thank you. What we also make clear is that the municipalities should not send citizens in the process of resource development if there is no perspective on the possibility of developing their ability to work. We shall also make that clarification. And again, I'm gonna ask you if mr. Finn Sørensen does not become a very happy man as the day progresses, with this clarification too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170515	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170516	If I can answer it before the day is over, I dare not say, because that requires me to have the opportunity to see the specific legislative text so that I have an opportunity to assess how much is really in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170534	Then I have the problem that Mrs Mette Reissmann and Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen has asked for the floor, but since none of them is present, I assume it is a mistake and until we have it corrected, I would ask Mr Flemming Møller to do so. Torsten Gejl to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170548	I just got so curious about the issue of mini-flex jobs, as Mr. Finn Sørensen here was about to answer. I'd like to know if Mr. Finn Sørensen will elaborate on the answer that he did not reach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170609	Thank you, and thank you for the opportunity. I didn't order Torsten Gejl to ask it myself, even if I had hoped it would come. I was asked what I thought about the growth in the number of flex jobs, and what I wanted to say was that I think we should study the plans we received from the Minister here or which were laid out in September. They show that the greatest growth is in what is called miniflex jobs, i.e. less than 10 hours. Another interesting thing is that it is just a little over 20%. of those who are in mini-flex jobs who manage to increase their hours. So that's just a little over 20%. of those who are able to live up to what was the reason for introducing mini-flex jobs, namely that they should be used to develop the citizen's ability to work. On the other hand, there are almost 80% who do not develop their ability to work, even if they get a mini-flex job. And we know from previous figures • Now I don't remember the percentage that a nice handful of them actually get less working capacity. And then we just have to bear in mind that mini-flex jobs are not, in that sense, something people can choose for themselves. If the municipality considers that they have to have one of these in order to develop their ability to work, then they have to take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170733	Then we are back on track with people present in the Chamber. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170739	I very much regret that there was confusion about the names here so it can happen. The reason I pressed in was that I have listened a great deal to the discussion that is here and to the statements that have been made. I have heard both the question from Mr. Finn Sørensen and now also the answers from the platform, and I would perhaps like to clarify a little what it really is, sir. Finn Sørensen is thinking about this, also with a background on the overall issue we are discussing here today. 'Cause it sounds to me like sir. Finn Sørensen, first of all, problematizes that there are people who have gone into mini-flex jobs at all, and secondly, the 3% who have come into ordinary work after having been in a process of resource development. - Sir... Finn Sørensen doesn't try to say anything about why he says, as he does, in relation to these numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170834-2	Now we are being asked about it and then I am trying to answer the questions that are being asked. And when I think it is worthwhile to deal with that and I think we will get to that when we get the more comprehensive evaluation of how things have turned out, it is because we are going to discuss how each of the schemes that have now been put into effect in the context of the reform actually meets the stated objectives. And that is where I say that we can already see some attention points as it is called, and we can see that they are not meeting what was intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170909	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206170910	There are at least two things to say that have not gone as it should. In fact, it is a big mistake that some people come into ordinary work after having been in a process of resource development, because that is not what is meant at all. Both journalists and Mr. Apparently Finn Sørensen is walking around in a confused state compared to it. It is quite wrong to be able to carry out a full, ordinary job after having been in a process of resource development, because the intention is that one should go through resource sequences to find out whether one should have a flex job or have an early retirement pension. The fact that some people then get regular work is, of course, happy for those people. In relation to the mini-flex jobs, we have the reality that those people would never have gotten to work. They would have been on early retirement instead. There are 23,000 people in this kingdom who have now been given mini-flex jobs and who have the opportunity to be on the labour market. There's probably nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171003	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171004	First of all, we don't know if they're in full-time jobs, do we? All we know is that they're registered with a salary income. And secondly, it was and is possible to work even if you are on early retirement. There is legislation that you can get a so-called spare job. There are some rules that allow you to have some wage income up to a certain modest limit. So it is not true, as the conciliation parties argued at the time, and as they apparently still do, that people have been completely abandoned if they are granted an early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171042	Then it's mr. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171044	After all, the introductions of this reform in the morning of time were that the people who had become ill had been injured or had some defect and could not be on the labour market full time, still had to be part of all of us, namely to be associated with the labour market, come home in the evening, sit down at the evening table and tell them that you have a job, that you have some colleagues, etc. In fact, I think that the mini-flex jobs somehow live up to that. On the other hand, I also think that there have been some questions where the municipalities have interpreted this differently. That's why we're changing it now. However, I believe that the municipalities that have done very well have read the legislation as they should. So it needs to be clarified. We just have to recognise that the municipalities can do this very differently, and that is why we are changing it. But isn't it sir? Finn Sørensen's opinion that there should be room for more people in the labour market so that they can be part of us? Doesn't Finn Sørensen think it's better than just giving them a pension? I'm sorry to say this, but when you give them a pension, they say: The next time we get acquainted with you is when we delete you from the register. After all, we are not supposed to have a Denmark, a Welfare Denmark, in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171201	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171202	I do not agree that it is giving up people to give them a pension. If you mean that, why do you make a change of law now, which you say will lead to, not that there are more people getting a pension, but that there are a little more people getting it a little earlier? Well, why do you do that if it's giving up people? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171225	After that round, we thank Mr. Finn Sørensen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171236	Thank you. In 2013 a fairly comprehensive reform of flex jobs and early retirement was carried out, and that was because the system at that time had a number of weaknesses. We think that too many were placed permanently on early retirement, although the underlying health problems were not necessarily permanent and there was a need to look at how to clarify people. The flexible job scheme was illogical, and it was also problematic because it did not necessarily hold hands under the weakest, and in some cases it was ensured that people could maintain higher wages despite reduced working hours. We have seen a number of cases in which weak citizens are placed for far too long in the course of resources, and that means, of course, that the rules must be reviewed. This must be done on an ongoing basis, especially when such a radical reform is being carried out, and that is what we are doing now. We need to resolve that the rules have been implemented so differently in the municipalities, and the conciliation circle has now presented this too. We must constantly try to improve current legislation. I do not think that we in this House are in favour of both those who are involved in the settlement, but also those who are outside the settlement. I think that we are quite in agreement that the balance must be struck between those who cannot work having the opportunity to have an early retirement pension, but those who can work, even if it is little, still have to be able to remain in jobs. So with the clarification that is now coming from the legislative text, I also believe that the parties outside the conciliation circle think that this is a step in the right direction, despite the fact that they can fundamentally be against parts of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171417	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171420	Thank you. In relation to the matter of whether we can be satisfied, I would say that the last time the conciliation circle came up with some changes, where guidance was sent out to the municipality, we also thought it was good, until the opposite was proved by the municipalities. I would just like to hear the rapporteur: we are talking about resource sequences and there is more clarification in relation to when to go into resource sequences, but those clarifications do not change the fact that the municipality can place some in resource sequences for 5 years or 2 years without any effort. You're in resource sequences, and then nothing happens. You can get it extended up to 5 years. Those rules aren't gonna change with these clarifications, are they?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171502	So, what we are saying is that we should not start a process of resources unless we can benefit from the effort. That is why there must be a capacity for work which must be developed and which must be able to bring the citizen closer to jobs. That's the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171520	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171521	But that does not change the fact that today we are seeing people being placed in resource sequences, and so nothing happens. Then you can be in it for a few years, and then you can have the resource cycle extended without anything really happening. It is not the case that we are tightening up in relation to the fact that the municipalities must now also make an effort in terms of resources, that is to say, that there is a decision to be made, so that we have a quicker clarification, so that we do not have to be long in terms of resources without it leading to something? That's not what's gonna change, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171553	After all, we suspect that with the clarifications we make, it will become clearer for the municipalities what the objective is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171604	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171605	It's a little in the wake of Mr. Bent Bøgsted's question. It is now the case that, as a rule, people under the age of 40 cannot be granted early retirement. The 40-year period does not appear directly in the law, but it is very strongly emphasized in the observations made by the law. That means, of course, and we have also seen that even those with a very reduced ability to function, which is under 40 years of age, have been sent in one sequence of resources after another. Will it still be possible for municipalities to have such a practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171642	The clarification of the legal text applies after all. So it's still going to be the case, with this clarification, that we should be able to benefit from the effort. It is clear that if there is no possibility of developing an ability to work, it does not matter whether you are 38 or 58 years old. It must be possible to benefit from the effort being made so that it makes sense for the municipality to make it. That is what is being clarified now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171709	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171710	Thank you. Does it also clarify what is meant when it says that it has to be realistic to develop the ability to work? Or is that just what's gonna stand? Because if it is nothing more than what is going to stand, it will again be entirely left to the municipalities to interpret the possibility of developing the ability to work. And one more question: is there any change in the provision that it must be clearly pointless to develop the ability to work before an early retirement pension is granted?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171745	The latter is precisely the point: (1) citizens must be able to benefit from the efforts being made. 2) If you can't do it if it's directly pointless you don't have to get through a resource cycle until you can get your early retirement. This means, of course, that it becomes clearer to the municipalities that they do not need to work test the citizens, but can grant an early retirement pension when they consider that an effort will be directly pointless.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171816	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206171828	Thank you. After years of dealing with this problem of early retirement and flexible job reform, it is gratifying that there seem to be some solutions on the way. But I have a concern that goes beyond joy and it may be that it is not justified, but I think there is a huge expectation in what we call the social resistance movement, which is all the vulnerable and all their helpers, thousands and thousands of people, that we will resolve these problems now or very soon. Many of the most vulnerable Danes in this system have been looking forward to these weeks, these months, because they have hoped that they could get out of the trap, and if it means that you can really do it now I don't quite know what the changes that are going to bring about in the short term. So if you can only get out of these clamps properly in 2019, I think it's too long. There I hope the conciliation circle will speed up. As far as good tactics are concerned, it is, of course, very good tactics that sick citizens should not be drawn through interventions that do not make sense and that the rules on early retirement should be clarified, and it is a good thing that the documentation requirement for granting early retirement can be met without a process of resource development. These are some of the things we have been hoping for. It's hard when you don't have the law, and when we don't have the precise rules, to say how and how, and it's hard to get involved in it, but I do have a few suggestions that might catalyze this which can help these good intentions along the way, for example. to give rehabilitation teams the power to decide matters more and more quickly and in this context to look more closely at the medical certificates and medical certificates that the citizen has. You're practically wiping out the past of the citizen now. I have spoken to several citizens who have been affected by these reforms, who may have been a specialist and received eight specialist reports at a price of between DKK 4 000. and 8,000 kroner. The play. Just at our hearing the other day, an expert said that medical records are being made for millions of kroner in the municipalities, which are being cancelled or are not being looked at. It could be nice to get it fixed. At the same time, it could be possible for several case officers to reduce the waiting time, which is, of course, some of the complaints that the citizens concerned have about it here, and then to allow more individual treatment of people in the course of their resources, because if we are to be able to decide more about whether people are going directly to take early retirement, we have to do a more individual case-by-case approach. This is also one of the things you do in some of the municipalities where it works. So it was some good advice to try to get this thing to work out without me knowing if they seem a little crooked and wrong and a little clumsy because I don't know the piece of law I'm talking into. So in conclusion, I would like to say that I am a little worried about the economics issue. In other words, if there are exactly the same austerity targets as there have been all the way, then I can be in doubt whether the exercise is successful. I fear that the conciliation circle will have to grab into the wallet and find some money if this is to come out in a way, so that there will not be the same protests and demonstrations, and what do I know for many years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172207	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172211	I really don't think there's that much distance between Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl's assessment of the situation and then my own, but I would still like to ask about the following. I still think it seems a little reactionary when Mr. Torsten Gejl keeps talking about things like this in the past, as if diseases are something like that if you're sick, you're sick, and then you'd better retire. Fortunately, in our society we have heard of people being cured, people getting better. So I'd like to hear Mr. Torsten Gejl's reflections that in the past very often young people with mental illness were sent on early retirement, despite the fact that, fortunately, you have the opportunity to heal. Here I would particularly like to reflect on the fact that 17 000 early retirement pensions were granted in 2011, i.e. almost a third of a birth year, starting with sending over to early retirement pensions, not those who were just born in the same year, but in terms of numbers. What's the alternative thinking about that? Was it so nice in the old days? I don't really think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172311	The rapporteur has not heard the alternative say that it was nice in the old days when 17 000 people went on early retirement. The reform was made because there was an intention that many of the young people who took early retirement could be given an extra opportunity to join the working community, and there is nothing wrong with that intention in my view. The problem is that the eye of the needle has been made so small that the reform has had a gigantic side of battle. That is what the rapporteur also admits, after all, that is what the Social Democrat rapporteur also acknowledges. That's not good enough. We're gonna make it better. So I am not immediately supercritical of the intention, but the way it has been done has ruined the lives of thousands of people, and that is what we must have corrected. That's why we're standing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172401	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172404	We are in agreement on that, but now I just think that Mr. Torsten Gejl must decide which leg he is going to stand on, because if on the one hand he criticises the saving of money on this, and on the other hand he thinks it is very good that there are not as many early retirements, it does not add up. It's a question of what's driving this reform. Was it saving money, or was it not reaching out to some sick people a helping hand so that they could enter the labour market? The fact that saving money means saving money is, of course, quite obvious. So what's the problem with saving money, sir? Torsten Gejl? In this context, I would like to know whether the alternative will not also reflect a little on the importance of mini-flex jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172444	The question is whether a lot of money has been saved; the question is whether you have made the needle eye too small; the question is whether you have created a situation that forces thousands of vulnerable Danes to almost accumulate or be parked in hopeless sequences of resources with everlasting work tests, which often bring them further away from what was actually intended, namely that they should recover. Often it starts with physical problems that have brought them into that situation, but people experience a sense of senselessness and an impatience that equally quietly also creates social problems and mental problems in them. So, ladies and gentlemen, too much has been spared here, and I am afraid that the conciliation circle will have to seize its pocket to get it fixed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172532	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206172543	Thank you. I think we have been in this debate for a long time. I do not think we should say that we will not come back. After all, we do so because it is important because there are people here at the other end and the authors of the proposals, like we in the conciliation circle, are deeply concerned about. I hope that this will be the starting point, which I think is the right one. I hope it is clear that this is one of the reasons why we have now got through the review that we brought forward, with the partial evaluation in the conciliation circle, for which the Minister, I think, has taken very good responsibility and which we are presenting today. The reason why we are doing this is, of course, that we have dug ourselves down to see what it is like to see that the intention of what we as a conciliation group and legislators have done is not going to be complied with. How do we make sure it does? I actually think that I too, at least from the previous rapporteur, see that that is understood. And I think we do now. We have also been re-examined at the Minister's initiative by the DA: what was the intention of the legislator, that is, us? And with these new clarifications we will ensure it, I hope, because you never have to promise it all, because there is a long way to go I just want to say that there is a long way to go from the legislator to the individual. No matter how close we want to be, we know that when we legislate, it must be implemented in the municipalities. We also know that if we legislate extremely closely and in detail, then the pile of legislation is just getting bigger and harder to deal with. And that is the balance we have. What we want in the conciliation circle, I think, is now very clear. We will be closer, also at the level of early retirement that was intended with the original reform, away from the current situation, where fewer than intended early retirement has been granted, and more have cycled around in resource cycles without it being meaningful. We've been standing here several times. Now we will have it clearly clarified and we have had it thoroughly examined. We have speeded it up as much as we could, but also had it thoroughly examined. It is now being achieved in this session, and I am very pleased with that. You know very well that for the Radical Left it has cost a great deal, but it is not us who are important, it is the people who are involved. And there I am, I would just like to say in this Chamber that it is taken extremely seriously all around the conciliation circle from those who presented the reform to those who are now in charge. I'm really, really happy with that. I also think we are saying very clearly: this is the first step, it is the partial evaluation that we brought forward because it was the most urgent. We're going to look at more, because we're looking at the overall evaluation now, and we're also going to make changes after that. For me, and I hope for the whole thing, it is a fundamental learning that it is very difficult to make extensive changes, which have the intention that more people should be able to get closer to the labour market and more flexibly closer to the labour market, more forms of flex jobs, also the smaller ones, that nobody should be parked, especially if you are young, on an early retirement pension where no one was interested in you. Those are the intentions that we hold fast to. They must be followed to the door, and they do not always succeed. From the first draft it has taken too long to get here, it certainly has. Now we're here, and we learn from it all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173006	There are a few comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173008	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I have, in fact, noticed that, in the past, the radical rapporteur in particular than most other rapporteurs from the conciliation parties has come to realize that it was necessary to change the legislation. I also remember that more far-reaching proposals have been made than those I can hear coming out of this. We can do that later. What I want to ask is something else. I hear the rapporteur say that what has been found in the conciliation circle is that, overall, fewer early retirement pensions have been granted than was necessary for the reform. That is what I heard the rapporteur say. If I heard correctly, can the rapporteur say something about the size of the economy and what is the ambition? Is it that you just have to rise to the number that was provided, so that you still save 1.9 billion? kr. a year in 2020? Is that the economic ambitions of the change that is now being proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173115	I really think I said quite clearly that there is sometimes a long way from legislation to individual citizens. That is also very good, because we would like the administration to be as close as possible to the relationship between citizens and case workers, but that means, of course, that it is not us in this House who have to legislate on who should have an early retirement pension. It is not us, and that is why my aim is not some number of early retirementists. That's not what the target is. The goal is for people to be confessed to what they need. What I said was that we in the conciliation circle have clearly taken note of the fact that early retirement should have been granted in some cases where people have cycled around in a process of resource development. These are some of the matters we have discussed here. I think that's totally real. How many of them will be granted early retirement in the future, I do not know. I'm not the one who's supposed to confess it. On the other hand, it will also become clear that the intention for us as legislators was for those who needed it and now we are going to clarify it, and it is entirely within the financial framework of these reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173229	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173230	All right, but it has always been in the law and in the comments that those who need an early retirement must have it. There is nothing new about that. The question is what are the criteria for obtaining it. That's what's the whole hurdle or the stone in the shoe in this, depending on where you see it from. I see the rapporteur's response as confirmation of the austerity targets contained in the 2012 conciliation agreement of 1.9 billion. kr. a year. It is overall, including both flexible jobs and early retirement, that there must be a saving of 1.9 billion. kr. a year grows to 4 billion. kr., when the agreement is fully phased in. I understand that the savings target is firm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173314	The goal that more people must come closer to the labour market and that there must be much greater flexibility in terms of how to make that contact remains firm. There's an economy in that. I think that previous rapporteurs have actually been very clear. It is not the economy that is the goal. It is the people and their attachment to the labour market and the best approach to what is the goal. We've clarified that's why there's a bill coming now... what the criteria are, and the result of it should be that more people get the right award. We have been working hard on this for many months and also had several questions on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173354	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173356	Thank you for that, President. To what the rapporteur says about the fact that it is not the economy, it is people, I would say that we agree on that. That is also why what is alpha and omega for those affected by it is that they get a quick clarification that they should not be dragged through one after another. However, I understand that this does not change the use of resources by the municipalities, where one can be placed in resource sequences for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 years without clarification. That is not what has been looked at here. It is just what is obviously pointless. That is the clarification that is being made here, I understand. However, I have also understood what the rapporteur said about other elements of the early retirement and flexible job reform. And this is gonna come into force on January 1, 2019 or something. I guess it's something like that it's gonna be about. Will it be possible to get anything else that will also enter into force on 1 January 2019 when the conciliation circle has the entire evaluation looked through so that it can be done in such a way that it can also enter into force on 1 January 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173508	After all, the proposal for the approval of the parties in the conciliation circle makes it quite clear that early retirement can be granted without prior resource development on the basis of a number of criteria, and that it is a prerequisite for the implementation of resource development that efforts can be identified where there is a realistic expectation that the citizen can benefit from the effort. This is where we get a clearer clarification, which the municipalities apparently needed, and there will be a change of law. It is true, as the previous rapporteur also pointed out, that we in Radicals have put forward a large number of other proposals for elements, we would like to look at where we have a political attitude that we would also like to adjust here now that we have gained some experience: the length, minimum limits in relation to flex jobs such as this. I'd like to wait for this evaluation... because it's coming now... and then we'll sit down and take a good look at it. I also think it is our experience in the conciliation circle that we actually need, even though we have been really impatient, and we also have in the Radical Left, after having this changed, that we actually have to turn all the stones in order to do something proper that we do not have to change again in a few moments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173637	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173638	Yeah, it's fine. I have also understood that that is what was stated in the proposal for adoption that this is not the problem. I should just like to ask the rapporteur whether, in Radicals too, we are prepared to look at giving the rehabilitation team a more decisive influence on those decisions. That's where the experts sit. Nowadays, they cannot decide on resources or early retirement/flex jobs or something like that. You just have to go through the rehabilitation team before you can be approved for resource sequences. Is the rapporteur prepared to give the rehabilitation team a more decisive influence, so that when they deliver something to the municipalities, that is what the individual should do? That is what has been called for many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173723	At least I and we in Radicals are very ready to discuss it. It is true that some of the keys to more meaningful courses and contexts are probably also in the rehabilitation team. It is true that some people point to that. But there are others who point out that it may also be too system-driven that you actually need someone from outside. I think that it continues to point in a slightly different direction for everyone who is interested in this. And that is probably one of the things that we will get more clearly with the thorough evaluation. But I'm more than ready to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173803	Thank you. Then there are no further comments. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206173813	Finally, the parties behind the legislation on early retirement and flexible jobs agree to improve and clarify the law. Today we are presenting changes that place the sick person more strongly in the face of the system. No-one should be in resource sequences if there is no prospect of their ability to work being developed and work tests only have to be carried out when there is a realistic goal to develop the ability to work. Those changes will be implemented by the Folketing before the summer holidays. If you're weak, you'll be stronger. In the past, the conciliation circle has tried in several ways to make the administration of the municipalities run away with the intentions behind the rules. Now we are changing the law, and the municipalities will have to treat the sick in a more humane and respectful way in the future. Later in the spring, the conciliation circle is engaged in a major evaluation of the legislation. We look forward to that in the SF. Instead of tripping threads, we need to help the sick to reach out a hand. SF has constantly worked for a faster and more radical change of the law. The adjustment that we are now making is clearly moving in the right direction. We think it has gone slowly, we do not think that the change is as far-reaching as we would like it to be, but it is as far as we could get in that process. Unfortunately, major and profound changes did not come through, but now we are smokin' up our sleeves and getting ready for the next round of negotiations, and the headline from the SF will be again to strengthen the citizens against the system. The sick must have more firm rights, so that they face the municipalities more strongly. SF supports the proposals from the Danish Social Advisor Association about • as I think they called it • a waiting-time guarantee. Too many municipalities run around corners with their own citizens and hold them off with talk, bad excuses, explanations and end up dragging cases unbearably long. Sick people become even more ill with hopeless waiting times, which slowly turn out the hope of getting out of a locked situation. Instead of being held captive by the municipality, we think that citizens should have firm guarantees as to when and how their case develops. Such a waiting-time guarantee ensures that citizens with permanent and significantly reduced working capacity are not maintained indefinitely in the system. In concrete terms, the SF will propose the following new rights: the right to have its case assessed in relation to the course of resources after a continuous maximum of 1 year on cash benefits, the right to have a case re-evaluated by the rehabilitation team for early retirement or to stop the flex job if there has been no progression in a flex job of less than 5 hours per job. the first effort within a maximum of 6 weeks of the visit. SF also proposes strengthening legal certainty by strengthening the rehabilitation team. After all, the municipalities are now setting up rehabilitation teams with representatives from both employment, social and health care, so that all aspects of the citizen's case are brought forward, but the competence to decide matters lies with the municipality's pension board. From now on, the SF is suggesting that it is the rehabilitation team that can make the decision. We also propose that there should be new regional review committees. The citizens' legal position vis-à-vis the system must be strengthened by setting up regional re-evaluation committees where both citizens and municipalities can seek to reverse the rehabilitation team's decision. The review committee shall be a body before the Ankestyrelsen. We propose that citizens with a working capacity of less than 5 hours a week should be allowed to choose to take a flex job, but the municipality should not be able to force the citizen. An early retirement pension or a flex job can be the lifesaving wreath for a better life, and everyone has the right to be treated with care and dignity. Of course, access to early retirement and flexible work should not be a roof-top table, but today many municipalities go far too far in their zealous pursuit of the last theoretical residual capacity of citizens. Instead, the sick citizen should be received by helping hands that gently clarify how to move forward. One work test after another sometimes only for half hours and with a bed next to continuous shifts of case workers, perpetual suspicion, medical statements that are ignored, and a constant drag is in many places the reality of the municipal torment. Citizens who have experienced being taken prisoner by the public want ways out. There is a big difference between the behaviour of the municipalities, but quite often I think we look directly into a horror cabinet. Paper disappears, meetings are postponed or cancelled, questions and complaints are not answered etc. etc. The degrading experience of being a number in the queue, reduced to a case to fill out new schedules for new conversations, for new work tests, yes, it takes good health to be sick. However, the adjustment of the law that the Folketing can make with our proposals is an important step. We think there is a long way to go before the weak have a strong foundation, but we are ready to get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174402	Thank you. There are some comments. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174404	Thank you. After all, we are seeing the results of a delayed partial evaluation and we are looking forward to a delayed main evaluation. And what I want to hear is: how can SF, which is part of this conciliation circle, accept that the evaluation of a reform which has such a negative impact on the most vulnerable Danes is so much delayed? And that the results of the evaluation and any adjustments to the main evaluation will be so late that if it is true what Mr. Hans Andersen said it might be some changes that will happen in the autumn of 2019. The conciliation circle has then sent the whole of this main evaluation and the consequences of it all the way to a new government. Looks like we're gonna have a change of government by then. Why has the SF accepted it? Why hasn't the SF set its foot down and made sure that those people could get a faster clarification?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174524	So, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we think that this has taken far too long. We also think that we should have tackled more things than what has been addressed and made them clearer. I think we should reverse the wording. Instead of saying that something is hopeless, we must turn it into something that gives citizens rights by saying that we are only initiating resource processes or work tests when it is realistic and concrete and with clear objectives. which the citizen can develop towards. I believe that the positive wordings should be made on behalf of the citizens instead, and that we should do so already in the wordings rather than restricting them. But that is what we have now, and it is the case that there are a number of good things about the reform. There are things that don't work, and I've kept many talking about them, but there are also things that work. I think, for example. that the fact that so many have gone on flex jobs is a success, and I did not think it was a success when 17 000 people were sent on early retirement in one year. So it's always a balance, compared to when you think the settlement is better than what was before.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174625	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174626	I would like to hear from the SF: for example, if it does. It turns out that there is a financing need that cannot be met, that is to say there is a need for some money that cannot be found, and therefore there are no adjustments to this reform that are really necessary to get the vulnerable out of the trap. Or if it turns out you're making a disclaimer that's so big that you pass this on to the next government. Will the SF guarantee to fight against it by going out of that settlement and terminating it towards an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174656	Well, there's no more money in this settlement. It's probably no secret that SF thinks some money should be put in, but it's not in this deal. So it's not in there. Now, sir. Torsten Gejl is not equal opportunity to do so today, but everyone is free to demonstrate here if just one sick person in Denmark gets better by SF stepping out of the conciliation circle. Is there one sick person who's gonna feel better? No, and I think we can actually make a difference by being in the settlement, and I see that as our commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174729	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174730	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that the clarifications were in place before the summer recess. Does this mean that these clarifications will enter into force on 1 July and that the municipalities will have to comply with them from then on? I would like to confirm that here. Now, of course, there have been negotiations, and I do not know what Mr. Karsten Hønge has talked to the Minister about during the negotiations, but I sense that Mr. Karsten Hønge hasn't gotten anything through it, as Mr. Karsten Hønge has mentioned from the platform here. It is in the situation where we are debating a review of the conciliation that we must get what we want through. Have they listened to what the SF has said? Have they in any way undertaken that some of it, as Mr. Karsten Hønge has mentioned here from the platform, can get through? Because there are a lot of good things that are good, it's not at all that but I'm just interested in hearing if there's any possibility that SF can get some of the good things through, or if the minister has just shot it all down and rejected it, or if it hasn't been discussed in this round, and that it's something that will then be taken up later on how is it connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174849	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174851	Well, exactly when it's planned for the law to come into force, I don't think it's actually agreed yet. What is the point of us presenting it today is that we can get it adopted in this Assembly, and then it will come into force after the summer break, I assume. But the idea of this is that it's going to be adopted in this assembly, and then we're going to get on with the big evaluation that hopefully can be adopted in the next assembly of parliaments. But it specifically states that we change three paragraphs. It will be amended in the law, which will be amended in three paragraphs. And the changes must make it clear that in each case the municipalities must assess it and, where appropriate, which bodies are relevant to test in relation to the development of the citizen's ability to work, and that the requirement for documentation does not imply that the municipality must have tested all bodies, including resource processes, in practice. Three articles of the law change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174941	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206174942	Yes, yes, I understand that, but the question is whether all the other good things, as Mr. Karsten Hønge stands and lists, and as Mr. Karsten Hønge wants to be amended in the law, has been taken up in this regard, or whether it should wait until later when you have to get started with the rest, or if you just concentrate on exactly these clarifications in this rebirth, then all that Mr. Karsten Hønge has stood and mentioned here, has not just joined in this round, or that one does not want to talk about it. How is that supposed to be? Because it is obvious that when you sit in the conciliation circle and negotiate I would at least do that if it were me then you take up what you would like to have done. It's just to hear if there's any upset that some of it, like Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge has of wishes, maybe come along.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175026	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175026-2	So what we agree on today is what we have put forward. The rest must come in the next round. And I haven't received any guarantees or promises on anything. However, just as we could make improvements in the areas that are being discussed here today, I have strong hopes that we will also be able to make good changes when the great evaluation is launched. We've simply kept it separate. That's the answer. What we have been concentrating on now is what we have seen as the most urgent, the most urgent, what we could not live any longer by not having done, namely to clarify when to go into the course of resources, and to put some fences around the citizens. The other things I mentioned will be part of what we are looking at in the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175105	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175107	Thank you. I think the SF has fought at the negotiating table. Then it has been said if the rapporteur is in doubt that I have that view. The rapporteur said that with the legislative changes that are now being proposed, the sick citizen is being placed in a stronger position vis-à-vis the municipality. Then I would just like to ask: what specific rights will the sick citizen have that he does not have today with the legislation in force?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175145	What we are getting is that we will have a more uniform treatment in the municipalities. As it is today, it's the big country lottery we can call it the lottery where the lottery is, which zip code you live under, because that's what determines how you're being treated in this municipal system. There is such a need for us to have a more uniform treatment. Some municipalities believe that they should send citizens into work testing and resource processes to clarify what citizens cannot do, but this is the end now. You can't do that anymore. You send people in resource sequences to find out where they can develop a working capacity. So we're moving out what should you say about the proof of why people are getting started: Is it to find out what limitations you have, or is it to find out where a working capacity can be developed? I think that is to give citizens a right rather than the system to test, test and examine citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175237	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175238	I simply do not understand what the rapporteur is saying. It has always been both the stated purpose and the text of the law that the purpose of resource progression, mini-flex jobs and internships is to develop the citizen's ability to work, and that it is only when it is obviously pointless and it is documented that the ability to work cannot be developed, that early retirement must be granted. That's what's been in the law all along. And as far as I can tell, that relationship doesn't change.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175316	Now I have this experience again that discussing with Mr. Finn Sørensen is like trying to hold onto a handful of sand; it disappears everywhere. Now I can listen to Mr. Simpson. Finn Sørensen, that it was apparently the law that was really nice and really good. But it wasn't. It's no use, of course, that Mr. Finn Sørensen first criticizes the law and says it doesn't work, and then when we go in and change it, the argument is from Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen, that the law was really good enough. But it wasn't. We can see that it was not good enough. We can only see, whatever intentions we had with the law, that it has been handled and administered very differently. We have previously thought that we could handle this through consultation with the Minister, who has sent out letters. We've had travel teams out, and we've made a briefing letter. However, it is clear that the municipalities are acting differently, and that is why we need to clarify this in the law. Mr. Finn Sørensen also argued on previous occasions. But it's not something invented by Enhedslisten. Everyone else has also been aware that this is where we could end up. That's where we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175411	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Conservative rapporteur does not appear to be present. Then we go to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175426	Thank you. And thank you for a fine debate, I think, on a difficult and also very important political issue. I would like to thank the conciliation circle for a very good and constructive work on a difficult matter, which is, of course, about how we can make an adjustment in the area that we have now discussed here today, namely, in relation to the way in which resources are run, an adjustment which both makes sense, but which also corrects some of the shortcomings we have seen in relation to what the rules are like today. Nor do I want to hide the fact that many of the cases I have seen have made a great impression on me. I have had ample opportunity to explain this in a wide range of consultations. I have also had ample opportunity to explain this in this Chamber earlier. An important part of the discussion we have here today goes precisely on what Finn Sørensen has mentioned during several consultations, namely the whole question of clearly pointless. That's exactly what's been at the core. That is what we have been discussing with each other, and that is what this draft agreement is saying: what now forms the background to the draft law must try to narrow the understanding of so that there will be a lesser degree of room for manoeuvre. Now you can never, I think, please Finn Sørensen quite happy, but I think that when Finn Sørensen has the opportunity to read it and that is fair enough, Finn Sørensen has not had it, this is something that meets some of the concerns that Finn Sørensen has had and which, for that matter, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has also had in the past, in relation to whether you can get into a situation where people who have no working capacity at all are sent in a process of resource which will in no way help them closer to the labour market. That is exactly what the debate is about today. Then there is also a discussion or some question as to when these changes will enter into force. Yes, they will only come into force on the day the Folketing decides them. Then you can ask yourself the question when it will be. Yes, hopefully it will be here during the spring with entry into force on 1 June 2018. That is what is being proposed. The next thing that will be criticized is that I might as well say now is that in order for it to be possible, we cannot run with a quite as long consultation period as would otherwise be expected. I would now like to announce this: it will be a shortened period of consultation. But in my world, it's more important to have a decision in this assembly than to wait until October 1st, when the Danish Parliament will be reinstated, to discuss it. Then we will have to take the criticism that may come of some who think that the deadlines for consultation will then be too short. Torsten Gejl has botanised much in when the Folketing was actually told that there was a delay. I think you can do that too, yes, you can do everything you want to do, but if I am going to interfere in the discussion, I would say that it seems to me that it is a great shock to some people in this Chamber that they have been told. I also admit that there are a great many things going on to the Employment Committee. In fact, I think it is an important exercise as a minister to send as much information as possible to the Folketing. It often happens that not everything is read, but then you can find it afterwards. However, on 29 June 2017, the Employment Committee was informed by the then Minister, who is therefore the one who says here, that there was a delay. It's a delay of a few months. Is that acceptable? No, that is not acceptable. But it is better to make a delay and say it openly as it is and then act on it. Because we have not allowed that delay to mean that we do not take political responsibility for any of the issues that have been most controversial, namely the whole issue we are discussing here. It has been absolutely crucial to me and to the conciliation circle that this delay in the major evaluation should not prevent us from being able to change the law on this point. But I would also like to say today that we are now putting this bill in consultation. We are, of course, completely open to the fact that we need to look at the answers to the hearings that are coming. After all, we all have the interest that we are now making sure that the legislative proposal that is going to be adopted is in line with the political intentions that were when the conciliation was made back in 2013. That's exactly why we've done this evaluation, and I look forward to it very much to having the opportunity to discuss it. However, I would like to say that I think this is a good day because today, with the legislative proposal that is being consulted, we are restricting the scope so that we can no longer have such a broad interpretation as we have had in the past and which we need to clarify in relation to the legislation, also to ensure that, when cases arise, the Ankestyrelsen has a basis to stand on. It will also be an important part of the legislative preparatory work when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175939	Thank you. There are some comments. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206175941	Thank you. I actually think I can say that it will probably not be those affected by the disease; those who have to be dragged through resource processes; those who benefit from the clarifications now we do not know how much benefit it will be that will complain if there is not such a long consultation period. I don't think so. They will be glad if something is put in place so that they can get a quick clarification. My next question is: when are we going to look at the content of resources? There's this thing about how resources can be allocated, and then maybe more than 11⁄2 years, when nothing happens at all. This is not fair to the sufferer. Is the Minister also prepared to change it and tighten up and say that when a programme of resources is awarded, action must be taken; there must be rapid clarification to avoid the long term? Then I should also like to ask whether the Minister is also prepared to look at giving the rehabilitation team some more influence, something more decisive in terms of whether you should have resources, early retirement or flexible jobs, so that they can not just set for clarification. They do not really have a decisive influence today. But is the Minister ready to look at giving more influence to the rehabilitation team where the experts sit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180104	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180105	Thank you. I am very concerned that, in the evaluation which starts at the end of February/beginning of March, we also look, of course, at the whole question of resource development. It was also one of the things that came up at the conference held last week that some people waited a very long time before anything was done. We will have to deal with that, and I can promise that it will be a major discussion. Will I also be willing to discuss what the role of rehabilitation teams is, whether to look at how they work and whether there are things that can be improved? Yeah, I definitely do, too. I have no sacred cows in the work we are now starting. When we look at the big evaluation, we discuss it all openly, and then we have to try to relate to what we decided, but also how things have worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180202	Thank you. That's very good. I should like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to look at this set-off system, which is in the supply of resources. In the area of sickness benefit in job clearance, if you go into resource development, you receive benefits regardless of your spouse's income. If you take out insurance in the labour market and go into resource development, it is all set off in resource delivery. Are you also ready to look at the interaction that is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180242	Well, I think there's a lot of interplay issues in general for some of these services we're discussing. I am not going to have to make a fundamental change to that. But we have to look at the evaluation that is coming, and it is clear that if anyone points out this problem, we are of course looking at it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180301	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180302	Thank you. The Minister can be absolutely sure that the Enhedslisten will examine the proposal that is being made very carefully. The Minister can also be quite sure that if it means just the slightest tiny improvement in the legal certainty of citizens in this area, we will of course support it. It's out of discussion. My question is one that I have also put to rapporteurs, and I think I have slightly different variations on the same subject. Of course, it's about the economy in this reform, including what you're doing now. So the overall question is: is it true, as individual rapporteurs have confirmed, that the SF rapporteur is most clear that the savings target set out in the original agreement on early retirement and flexible jobs is 1.9 billion? kr. in 2020 and EUR 4 billion; kr., when it is fully phased in, stands at hand and that the changes made must be made within that framework? That is one question. The second question is: is it true, as some rapporteurs have given me the impression that too much has actually been spared on the early retirement part, that fewer early retirement pensions have been granted than were the conditions for the reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180427	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180428	Thank you. Perhaps to start with the latter, I can say that it is probably just as violent and creative enough that I should be giving grades to various rapporteurs and rapporteurs. There was, of course, a fine discussion between the radical rapporteur and Mr Gundelach. Finn Sørensen, and I think there is something wrong with Mr. Sørensen for once. Finn Sørensen's ears. I think the radical rapporteur was very careful to try to explain how the Radical Left was in this matter. But now I am not the spokesman for the Radical Left yet, nor am I planning to be. In other words, I can say that my view is clear, and it is that we need to restrict the scope of interpretation that has existed. That is what I have explained here today and as Mr. Finn Sørensen has also been called for during several consultations. So, sir. Finn Sørensen should, if anyone today, take his hat off to the conciliation circle, because this is something that goes in the direction Mr. Finn Sørensen has argued. In relation to the agreement and the settlement that was made in the morning of time and the economy behind it, I can say that what is behind my political position is that this is, of course, about how we ensure that as many people as possible are part of the working community. That's the way it is. I think that's the point of view, sir. Finn Sørensen has to give up people, and I don't think you can be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180541	Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180544	Excuse me, that was a very long answer that was about everything other than what I asked. Is the savings requirement, let's call it what lies in the 2012 settlement, by force, which means that improvements at one end of the system must be financed with deteriorations at the other end? That's the consequence of it. Does it stand, and is it true, as some people have said here, and as I understood it otherwise, the Minister must say that I have completely misunderstood it and that it is not the case that 40 fewer early retirement pensions have been granted after the legislation has entered into force than were described in the terms of the draft law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180633	So, first of all, I think we should re-read my answer, in which I say very well that, in relation to the way in which the political agreement was made and the intention there was, one must only note that, as the law has been perceived on the board and that may be, because the law has not been well enough described we have come into a situation where the interpretation room has been too large. It is now being narrowed down. This may have meant that some have been in resource development for a long time before they, for example. has received an early retirement pension. And, of course, what will be the consequence is that we will see that there are some people who do not come into the process of resource development but come directly over and get an early retirement pension. Then I have to say that what is important to me in relation to the reform that was carried out during Mette Frederiksen is that we have an obligation to ensure that we do not abandon anyone, that we try to ensure that as many people as possible can contribute. And I think that is a really, very desirable point of view to have, as I support a hundred percent with the addition that, of course, there must always be an opportunity to get an early retirement if that is not the case. And that is also true of the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180743	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180747	It's the chronology I'm after again. I understood the chronology in relation to this delayed partial evaluation. But with regard to the main evaluation, I should like to ask whether I understood Mr. Hans Andersen is correct, so that the possible legal adjustment that comes from the main evaluation will not come until autumn 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180818	Yes, sir. Hans Andersen from the Left has not yet been appointed Deputy Minister. He may be; it may also be that Mr. Hans Andersen will be the minister. I don't know; it's up to the Prime Minister. We're gonna start discussing this in the spring of 2018. If there are changes then it depends on how quickly we can reach a political agreement on this and when we can then have a legislative proposal put forward. And that could be an apology to a boy or a girl. It all depends on how long we have to prepare that bill. For me, therefore, it is crucial that the content is in place rather than that we are preoccupied with a particular deadline. I would just like to make that very clear. 'Cause I'm not gonna let myself be pressured to reach anything by a certain date. It must now be the case that we are looking at how the content will improve if it is to be clarified. And, as I said, I am completely open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180906	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180907	But I guess you have to take sir. Hans Andersen's words in the Parliamentary Chamber from this platform a few moments ago on the face of it may also have been said wrong; so, of course, is it quite fair and understand them so that the legal adjustment that can come on the basis of the main evaluation will not come until 2019? So, is it me who is bad at raining, or does it really mean that the conciliation circle has shot the monkey to the next government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180936	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206180937	Well, now we don't shoot with any monkeys, and I don't want to polemicize on that either. Because I think it is actually a rather serious matter that we are discussing here today. We're doing this as fast as we possibly can. What we are discussing right now is in relation to a legislative proposal that comes into consultation, which will be adopted and which will enter into force on 1 June. Then we will also hopefully come in the spring and before the summer break to make a political agreement on further adjustments and adjustments to everything other than what we are discussing now. It is my hope, then, that such a bill can be discussed and moved forward in the next assembly so that we can get it decided as soon as possible. But whether it can enter into force on January 1, 2019 or July 1, 2019 is out of my hands, because I do not decide it alone. And it should be borne in mind that, regardless of whether another government might come, there is always a risk of that, depending on how you look at it, the conciliation circle is the same. That should be borne in mind, because it is a broad circle of conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206181037	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. As mentioned earlier, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 8 February 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206181052	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 8 February 2018. That is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206181113	Thank you. The question is this: What can the Minister say about his position on the six proposals for amending the legislation on early retirement and flexible work which were submitted to the Folketing on 8 November 2017 by 59 trade unions and other interested organisations? Perhaps some rapporteurs are thinking: Oh, no, should we not just have a repeat of what we have just discussed? It may, of course, be the consequence. But if it is the case that the other parties, and not least the parties in the conciliation circle, will go to such a discussion with an open mind and give their opinions on the concrete proposals, knowing that none of them have been incorporated into what we are putting forward now. We can well hear that no account has been taken of, but as we have already been informed, and as all the rapporteurs from the conciliation parties have said, we are working on things beyond the proposal we are now putting forward, it could be very interesting, not least for the many, many thousands of people who feel affected by this legislation. For all those workers who fear that they might be hit by it, it might be very good if we then went to the bite and dealt with the proposals that we are being presented with, in this case six specific demands or proposals for amendments to the law, which I know the Minister knows. So I am not going to prolong the very reason for the question. I will explain what six proposals are when I have the opportunity to justify the question itself, but just announce that I think it is important that, in this situation, we should all be open to what opportunities there could be for improving the security and legal certainty of citizens and employees in this area. So there is therefore the possibility of a good debate, even if the overall framework is roughly the same as in the previous question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206181328	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. Then it is the Minister of Employment for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206181338	Thank you for the floor for a new question on the reform of flex jobs and early retirement. This question, as the questioner rightly mentions, is about the government's position on the six proposals submitted by 59 trade unions and other interested organisations to the Danish Parliament in November 2017. As I have just said in the question that has just been closed, the conciliation circle, and hence myself, is following this area very closely, and it has always been our clear position that action must be taken when there are indications that the law is not working as intended. I also think that the last over two hours of debate have shown very well that there is a very clear political interest in this. However, I would also like to start by stressing that any changes to the reform must be made on the basis of an enlightened basis. After all, we have just agreed to clarify the rules for granting early retirement. We took the decision on the basis of the advanced partial evaluation, which has been very thorough and which has certainly also, I think, helped to qualify the debate. The partial evaluation showed that in municipal practice there is different understanding of how the requirement for documentation should be interpreted in cases of early retirement. There are municipalities which in certain cases have a strict interpretation of the rules on documentation requirements in quotation marks. In other words, although early retirement could be granted, the municipalities have initiated resource processes. Of course, we have acted on that basis. It is absolutely crucial for us that vulnerable citizens who do not have the prospect of developing their ability to work do not come into resource development and that the granting of early retirement and visitation resources becomes more uniform across municipalities. This is certainly a very relevant issue, which we are now dealing with. The next thing we are waiting for is the overall evaluation of the whole area of reform, which I also had the opportunity to elaborate on at the last question, an overall evaluation which will come here at the end of February, which will give us a solid basis to see if there is a need for adjustments to other parts of the reform. As I have already mentioned, Mr. Finn Sørensen, sir. Bent Bøgsted and even Mr. Bøgsted. Torsten Gejl, I'm completely open to it. Anything else would be weird. After all, it is not the case that we are making an evaluation without wanting to discuss what the content of that evaluation expresses. Then there will be a large number of constructive and good proposals which must be taken into account and the scope of which must also be discussed. That is why there is reason to sign up for the hearing that took place on Wednesday in the Committee on Employment, as I did during the last debate, because it helped to highlight some of the different issues that we will be returning to at the end of February when we start. What does that mean? Yes, that means that we are now waiting for the overall evaluation of the entire reform area, which is going to give us this solid foundation to look at further adjustments. That is why it is a little strange that we should already implement six proposals, which we would say will do things in the wrong order, because in my world there is no point in presenting solutions until we have mapped out what the challenges are and how our analysis actually falls out. I think we should do that when we know the extent of it, and that is why I am not going to deal with the six proposals today either. However, I would like to stress that when so many people who know something about the area come together and agree on very specific proposals, that obviously makes an impression on me. This is serious work, and I would like to say so here today, so that it cannot be misunderstood, because I have also been asked this question of conciliation as a matter of committee which most people may recall. Question 72 is the question. Perhaps one might miss a little more passion from the Minister, a little more passion, as to what the Minister thinks about the work, and I now qualify that by saying that I think it is good work that has been done, and then we will have to look at the extent to which we will make use of the proposals when we see the overall evaluation. But there is then, I think, reason to sign that this is something that has required a great deal of work between those who have been involved. But to deal with it in detail, when I see the overall evaluation, and I will look forward to discussing it with the Employment Committee of the Danish Parliament, and I will also already make myself available for consultation now, in which I cannot call myself, but already say that I hope we will have a consultation on the overall evaluation, because there will be a basis for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206181831	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206181842	Thank you. And thank the Minister also for his kind reception of the proposals which come from the many organizations. And until the opposite is proved, I will take it as an indication that the Minister will then take an open mind on the proposals so that, hopefully at some point, we will not today, but at a later stage we will be able to get the Minister's clear position and also the other rapporteurs' position on the concrete proposals, i.e. whether they are good or whether they should be incorporated or whether they are bad. For that is the joy of the situation we are in, in other words, that after in vain for many, many years we have knocked on the door to have a real discussion of the text and effect of the law, we have now come into the situation where we are discussing concrete changes. There is naturally a range of what we think should be done, and there I think we should all be happy that so many have engaged, that is to say that so many outside the Folketing have committed themselves to making concrete proposals. I would just like to point out that, in addition to these organisations that are behind this, there are also other organisations that have produced good proposals. This is true, for example. Danish Social Advisor Association, which Mr. Karsten Hønge was kind enough to mention. Some of the proposals made by the social workers, which were also presented to us at the hearing the other day, are proposals which, in the view of Enhedslisten, should also be included in the work we should have. In this specific question, we have chosen to take as our starting point the six proposals of the many, many professional organizations and interest groups. I even think the circle has grown to 61 organizations since we submitted it last. And that is, of course, because what the Minister says makes an impression when so many come forward with proposals. Then the Minister says he cannot deal with it because it has to be on an enlightened basis. I hope that the Minister does not imply that these people and organisations who have made these proposals do so on an uninformed basis. On the contrary, I believe that they are doing so on an extremely enlightened basis, because it is organisations which represent members, ordinary employees, who have been exposed to the consequences of this legislation, as we have been illustrated by countless examples. I shall not wade in that, but just briefly mention what the six proposals are about. The first is a proposal which says that if the ability to work is reduced to 7 hours and below, the citizen must be able to choose between resource processes, flexible jobs or early retirement, and this must be a legal requirement. Personally, I think this is the most important of the proposals, because it will provide citizens with rights, and it will seriously prevent municipalities from chasing people into the senseless and even harmful processes that we have seen so many examples of. The next is that the resource cycle should have a maximum total period of 5 years. If within five years the municipality has not been able to clarify the citizen, the citizen must have a legal right to choose between rehabilitation, flexible jobs, resource development or early retirement. Again, it is a very clear and clear legal requirement for citizens, and that is what we need. And it has to be said that if it has not been possible to develop working capacity within five years in a five-year period, it should not be difficult to conclude that the citizen should then have the right to choose a lasting support for another and better service. The third point is that the citizen must be able to apply for resources and thus be able to complain about resource processes. It is one of the difficulties of the legislation in force that the citizen cannot do so today. So it is again a right for the citizens who want to see the flow of resources, because that is what many people do. Point four is that access to restraint flexible jobs must be facilitated, including the abolition of the requirement of 12 months' prior employment after the social chapters or under special conditions. After all, there has been a crash and why can't people get a flex job at the workplace they're used to getting at? Then there is a very important proposal that the resource flow allowance should be at the level of sickness benefit and that no disability pension and other schemes should be offset, so that we avoid the poverty that lies in it. The last requirement is that when hiring in flex jobs, the union should be brought in, and this must be done with the union's negotiating rights. May I read out the proposal for adoption? Thank you. I just managed to present the six demands which I hope the rapporteurs will take a concrete stand on. And then, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party and the Alternative under this item, I shall make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the Government has taken the initiative to clarify the legislation on early retirement and flexible jobs. The Danish Parliament invites the Government to assess the possibility of incorporating the 6 proposals for amendments to the legislation submitted to the Danish Parliament on 8 November 2017 by 59 trade unions and other interested organisations. V 36).
ParlaMint-DK_20180206182425	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is, of course, part of the further discussions. And then we can start on the rapporteur's line. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206182442	Thank you. It is about the whole reform now and about the fact that we are going to discuss how to make an early retirement and flexible job reform work better, whereas before, in other words, during the last point, it was more about the progress of resources. You can also start by saying: Are things going well or bad? There are fewer people getting early retirement, more people getting flex jobs. The unemployment rate among flex workers is still high, but it has fallen from 25 per cent. 18 per cent. I don't think there's a lot of people who can think this is bad, but I got smarter in the last debate, that is, maybe just sir. Finn Sørensen finds it more interesting that people are on early retirement than that they are everything else. But that is something we can discuss; at least I do not agree with. But no, everything is far from good compared to this reform. And if you mean it, you haven't followed the various things that have been in the media, and you haven't talked to all those people out there either. There have been inhuman work tests, and there have been things about people where all the people in here and myself have taken their heads several times and said: What are they doing out there? It is also true that there has been something about people's lack of legal certainty and that people do not feel they have had control or control over what has happened and do not feel they can stop it. They have simply lost the desire and the ability to keep up because they really feel that they are just being run around in the system. There are people who are not being properly treated and feel that they are not being heard and spoken to nicely, and flexists who do not feel that they are being listened to when you hire them in flex jobs. There are really, very many things that have not worked, and there are really, very many bad examples of things that I would also like to acknowledge at any time have not been good enough and that we need to take seriously and look at when we need to evaluate. I do not want to go into the intentions of the reform, because that is something we can sort of go in and see what I think about in the last debate just now. But the intentions I said there are the ones I have in my luggage, and that is the ones I'm going to go hard on when we're going to evaluate. And we need a proper evaluation and to debate it properly and properly. It is an evaluation where we have the citizens at the heart of it. But it is also important for us Social Democrats, as I have also said in the conciliation circle, that we should also ask these people how things are going. It is not enough just to ask the municipalities if they are doing well. Then they'll probably say they do. It is also important to ask citizens whether they have had a good experience or whether they have had a bad experience. So, what have you experienced in good and evil? Just as we did at the hearing the other day, when there were also good and bad things to hear. There is a need for change, and I have no doubt about that for a second. There is a need to look at legal certainty and redress opportunities and other things that need to look at the early efforts. We can do much better, and there is also a need to look at proper procedures. However, one thing that we have not yet discussed, and which is also very important for me and for us Social Democrats, is a more inclusive labour market. 'Cause it's still bad when 18%. are unemployed among flex workers. There we simply have to ensure that there is even more room for these people so that they can get to work. Because I believe even when I talk to these people that it's also where they feel best, i.e. if they can get out among other people. They're also needed out there. Today there has been talk of bottleneck problems, and there you can use those people, so it is now that we have the options, and I think we should bring that into this talk too. I'd say I probably spent the most time listening. I have listened to all the trade unions that have made these proposals, and I have listened to a great many different interest groups. I've had a lot of meetings, and I've read thousands of e-mails like everyone else in here. But I would also like to say that what I think has been most interesting to me has been meeting the sick citizens. It is also good with trade unions and everything else, and great respect for them. But what has been most interesting to me is to meet the sick citizens and hear how their experiences have been through this. Out in Norddjurs I have sat at 3F and met some people who have tried these different things, and I also heard those who were at the hearing the other day. It was an incredibly strong experience to listen to good and evil, and what they tell is not only bad. There is also something good, but for good and evil hear what they experience. And this reform is supposed to end up with them actually coming and telling the good story. I don't think anyone in here can disagree about that. So I would say that I am completely open to all sorts of proposals from large groups, from trade unions and from companies and all sorts of things. However, I also take up the point made by the Minister that we need to make a proper evaluation of it. We have to talk about this with great respect. I don't know exactly how this ends yet. But I just know this needs to be done better. We need to focus on the individual person; we need to focus on giving the individual person a really good life and a much better life. This must be the whole idea of the reform and the whole idea of the evaluation. That is why I would like to read out this text of adoption; I almost forgot, President: Proposal for adoption The Parliament notes that the conciliation circle behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs in the current parliamentary assembly will clarify the rules in the field of reform. Clarifications must provide clarity on: in a flex job. The Danish Parliament notes that in spring 2018 the conciliation circle will discuss further adjustments to the reform area on the basis of the overall evaluation. • V 37)
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183036	Thank you. That proposal is also included in the further discussions. There are some brief comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183043	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I do not think I heard the rapporteur say anything wrong, I might disagree with the question, but now the question is about trying to deal with proposals that have come from a large number of trade unions and associations and interest groups who are very familiar with this area. That is what the question is about. I would very much, very much, like the rapporteur to try to deal with the specific proposals rather than cover himself with the fact that there will be some evaluation and so on. After all, the rapporteur has been following this as long as I have, and the rapporteur has a clear picture of how the reform works, and the rapporteur himself has used most of his rapporteur's speech to point out a number of the errors and shortcomings that exist. So I think we can expect the rapporteur to try to answer the following: are there any of the six proposals that the rapporteur can support and will work for, or are there any of the proposals on which the rapporteur can say in advance that he will not be involved in any further work on this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183157	I think that some of these proposals are good, but there are probably also proposals that cannot be done. I also find it strange that we should be discussing six proposals, which we should then discuss together with all sorts of other evaluations. Then we might as well discuss all the proposals that come from ordinary people, sick people and others, which we also need to discuss and which are just as important. I think we can do just as well, and then we can have lots of questions every time there is a proposal. I don't think many Orcs or bother to listen to that. Of course, there are many things in this that are important. You can also see that they want there to be more flex jobs, that there must be more legal certainty and such things, so it is just the question of how to get it. They use my overall thoughts, but then they just come with much more precise details that I can't yet. But I'm not that far from trade unions and these desires in relation to the overall talk that there are some issues we need to solve, but I'm just not sure this is the right thing to do. Nor do I know whether this is possible politically, and I do not even know what it costs, but I can at least guarantee that most of this will be discussed in the conciliation circle. I would also like to ask questions about some of this, because I want to know both what it costs, whether it is possible and what it means. That is why I will discuss it and take it seriously, but I cannot say exactly where we stand yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183321	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183323	Thank you. I am sure that this will also be discussed in the conciliation circle. I do not really doubt it for a moment. But now it is the citizens' conditions that are at stake and the consequences that legislation has for ordinary employees if they become ill or have an accident at work. That is what this is all about, and that is also why the trade unions have committed themselves to it. So I think we could expect the rapporteur, with his knowledge of this area, to be able to be a little more specific. Which of these proposals will the rapporteur continue to work for, and are there any of the proposals in which the rapporteur will say in advance that this can be forgotten, because he will not be involved in this? Or is it the case that the rapporteur will take all the proposals and take positive action to ensure that they are included in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183422	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183424	Sir. Finn Sørensen can wish for many things, and he often does. Allow me to mean what I want and can mean here in the Folketing, and I think that the most important thing for me now is to make sure that this is a good evaluation. I'm glad, too, sir. Finn Sørensen started his question earlier by saying that Mr. Finn Sørensen completely agreed with me on virtually everything I said. In other words, to the intentions with which I am going to the evaluation in the conciliation circle, I have Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen's full support. It is so good to hear it, and I must also take note of it. But to go into the details of the various proposals, I think that is too early.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183501	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183503	Thank you. Now Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that everything is being discussed in the conciliation circle and this too, I could understand. But would the rapporteur be able to support us in getting the Ministry to calculate what the individual parts will cost to implement? I agree with the rapporteur that some of them are quite costly. There is no doubt about that. But nothing happens by formulating it and asking whether they want it to be implemented, whether they can be implemented and whether there is an economy to implement it at all, because we do not know that. But isn't it an idea to get the Ministry to figure out what this proposal really costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183548	Now I know sir. Bent Bøgsted so well that I know he's a more experienced master in negotiating than I am. Sir. Bent Bøgsted also knows that every time you have a settlement, and there are some things about whether it is a simplification of rules or something else, you ask questions about how much it costs, what it means, what it helps people and everything else. That is what we want to do here. And when we get a huge evaluation on, I don't know how many pages, there are more things that I want to ask: how much does it cost and how many people help it? And the Ministry and now I'm looking over at the Minister and the Minister's officials... is used to every single time I'm in it, I ask, I don't know how many questions and probably more than they think are funny. But that's because I have to be curious when it comes to an evaluation. That is both, in relation to what things cost and how much it helps people. That's why I'm sitting where I'm sitting. And I know that's how Mr. Bent Bøgsted, too. Surely we need to be absolutely clear about what the various things cost, if that is what we want, because otherwise we cannot know whether we can do it. The same goes for how much it means to the different people. So I want to guarantee Bent Bøgsted that I will ask a lot of questions, and I am sure some of them will also be about the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183648	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183650	But maybe it didn't matter that those calculations were made so that the rest of us could have them too. We know that when the conciliation circle sits there and questions are asked, we do not see the questions and answers. So it might be a good thing if we did the calculations fairly quickly. I will also ask the Minister when he comes back to the floor so that the rest of us can see the calculations, because then perhaps some of the discussion could be closed down in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183720	I am probably not so naive as to think that we can even shut down the discussion in that area. But I would just like to say that I have just heard that the Minister has more or less called himself for a consultation, so there are many opportunities to get some answers out of the Minister, and I am also sure that he will respond to everything. I'm not a minister, and I can't decide if you get those answers or not, but we usually do. I'm just gonna call on Mr. Simpson. Bent Bøgsted to ask all the questions he wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183748	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. We need a new rapporteur, and that is actually Mr. President. Bent Bøgsted. And I would like to remind you that it is always good to press for the floor before you stand up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206183810	Thank you for that, President. It won't happen again until next time. This question deals precisely with the six proposals made by a number of organizations. There is something that makes sense from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, but there is also something that may seem a little unrealistic and that is not so easy to implement. We openly recognise that there are also some of the things that may be covered by some conciliation, among others. The one with sickness benefit. We just realize that it's not something you can just do. But we do have a problem, and I think the Minister would like to recognise this with restraint jobs, where you have to have had 12 months of prior employment after the social chapters that cause major problems. There are some who may get a flex job if they can stay in the company, but they cannot because they have to be included in the social chapters. This is perhaps one of the areas that you can see if you can loosen up a little. I find it difficult to understand how much of what the conciliation circle is bringing here now could have an impact on the award of flex jobs. These small flex jobs of less than 1 hour duration are as far as I have understood not at all what you will go in to look at in the conciliation circle. It must still be the case that, in the municipalities, it can be said that if a person has a residual working capacity of less than one hour, then he must still have flex jobs instead of early retirement. We cannot see that through, and it will also be difficult to see through before those clarifications are fully in place. But that's kind of a problem. That is also why these organizations are proposing to have working capacity reduced to 7 hours or less. In the past, I have been out to say by the Danish People's Party that it has to be 5 hours and less, and then you have to have the opportunity to choose freely whether it should be early retirement or flexible jobs. But if you go all the way down to less than one hour, it's gonna cause some problems. The Minister has not made it clear that this is what will also be done away with in the review of early retirement and flexible jobs. It's just a clarification in relation to some obvious cases. And then again this: if you have a working capacity of less than 1 hour, is it an obvious case, and then you have to have an early retirement pension? Or where will you set the limits for how and how? But I would ask the Minister in each case to explain a little what the consequences of these six proposals will be and how expensive they will be if they are to be looked at seriously. I think it would be worth assessing what importance it would have for the progress of flex jobs, but also whether it is unrealistic to implement because of the economy. It may well happen that there is something there. However, I do not think that we should simply reject six proposals coming from a number of organisations. After all, they have worked hard to find out what this is going to be of importance. And I think they have also looked at the consequences that will have for those who will be covered by it. So I actually think it's a little wrong if you just reject and say that you don't want to hear that talk at all. This is not something that will really be included in the assessment of early retirement and flexible jobs. So in this context, I would ask the Minister to try to account for the consequences of these six proposals and what significance it will have for the future if they are to be looked at seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184215	There is one point I should like to make. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184218	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur, and thank you for being able to be together here too for a joint proposal for adoption calling on the government to include these six requirements in the assessment of how we can improve the legislation. There was one thing that I overwhelmed, and it was that the rapporteur said that it would require changes in the settlement of sickness benefits, that one of these claims collided with it. What's it gonna be for one of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184248-2	Well, this resource progression benefit has to be at the level of sickness benefit. It should be borne in mind that we have the sickness benefit law, where you move on to a process of clarification where you have a resource progression benefit after the first 6 months. I believe that this is where it can collide, because the resource flow is at the same level as the output that you then get. I know, sir. Finn Sørensen will say that the 6 months must be at the level of sickness benefit itself, but if you do so with the resource progression benefit, you also have to enter and change the job clearance service, which is the same as the resource progression service. Otherwise, sir, I've misunderstood. Finn Sørensen totally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184341	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184343	It is not a question of what I think it is a question of what the organisations think. And all the organisations say is that when you are in a process of resource development, the benefit you receive there must be at the level of the sickness benefit rate, which is also the benefit rate. And that is, of course, because the organisations have seen that people are on the way to providing a service at the level of cash benefits for years. There is, of course, the difference between the set-off from the spouse's income, but then there is the problem of offsetting disability insurance. It's just that the benefit has to be at the level of sickness benefit. So it is not something that requires breaking up in the settlement that lies, about the sickness benefit reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184431	Yeah, I kind of get that. But if you take the course of resources it can last for five years, maybe longer, what do I know then Mr. Finn Sørensen provides sickness benefits. This is what for the first six months almost corresponds to the general benefit rate, but after the six months, the period of sickness benefit is reduced to the amount of the resource progression benefit. And that is where you intervene, because if you have to raise one, you also have to do it in the sickness benefit and in the job clearance process. There they receive a benefit which is not offset by the spouse's income. Then you have to look at both.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184509	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184519	Thank you for that, and thank you to the parties for raising a debate. It is, of course, an important debate on the early and flex-job reform. After all, we can all agree that we must reach out to the citizens who need it, and we can all agree that we must reach out the right hand to the individual specific people. Then we must also note that, unfortunately, this has not always been the case. We are all aware of cases where the sick unemployed have been caught by the wrong hand and pulled through pointless bets. It has, of course, filled a lot in the debate, but I also think it is important to bear in mind that it certainly does not take the full picture, fortunately. That is why I am also pleased that there is agreement within the conciliation circle that the intention of the reform is right, but there is a need to clarify the legislation so that we can avoid the situations that we have mentioned in the past today. With the proposal on which we have agreed in the conciliation circle, we will of course be helping to create clarity and greater uniformity in the municipalities, because it must never be the postal number that determines whether or not an early retirement can be granted. It is important that we do not step back two steps, because with the early and flexible job reform, I believe that we have taken a major step forward, and now it is a matter of fine-tuning the course. As you know, this reform was adopted by a broad majority under the former SRSF government, and in the Left there is no doubt that we took a right and necessary step forward. For the background was that, unfortunately, we were heading in the wrong direction, where more and more people were left to themselves on an early retirement pension, so there was a need to change paths. Several must be linked to the labour market to the extent that they can be involved. That was the goal then, and it must continue to be. Because in the Left we will not be giving up in relation to people if there is a realistic opportunity to become part of the labour market, but I think it is important to put a thick line under the realist line, and I am glad that we changed track. Because we are definitely on our way in a better direction, and it is absolutely crucial for the Left that we also stick to it. But it is clear that we cannot, must or will not turn a blind eye to sick citizens being dragged through pointless efforts where common sense says there is no perspective. We simply cannot be familiar with this. No human being should be dragged through one or the other effort if one can see in advance that it does not make sense. We simply need to rectify this right away, which is why I am pleased that we in the conciliation circle have agreed to make the clarifications that we have spoken about in the past. This can help to create clarity, and it can also help individual citizens get the right help more quickly than they do today. So I am glad that we are continuing along the path that has so far produced good results. We also owe this to our fellow citizens, who may have great challenges. Because we must never give up on people who have a realistic opportunity to become part of the labour market. I would like to conclude by saying that six specific proposals have been put forward, which are the starting point for today's debate in this debate on the question, and I think that the six specific proposals can, in a very good way, be included in the discussion which the conciliation circle must have when the whole evaluation is available and where we are all informed at an even higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184950	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206184952	Thank you. Finally, we came to the very last sentence, which tried to relate a little to what the question debate is about, and then I will just continue from there. Are there any of these proposals that the rapporteur can support in terms of content, where he can say that this is a good proposal and that we would like to continue working on it? This is not the same as the fact that it is actually adopted in this form, as we all know, but are there some of the proposals where the rapporteur can say that it is a good proposal and that it would like to continue working on it and try to make it happen? Are there any of the proposals where the rapporteur can say: under no circumstances will we take that either because it is too expensive or it is not helping people, or what the justification may be? Can we have a bit of a veil lifted on the rapporteur's views on the concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185044	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185044-2	I think that the six proposals deserve a serious and thorough discussion in the conciliation circle, where we can identify what is the real content of each of these proposals, what is up and down, what the consequences are, what the economy is, how it will help the individual people who will be covered by these six concrete proposals. I think that would be a more serious, sensible approach to it than I am now shooting at the hip and commenting on the individual proposal in concrete terms. After all, they are made by a large number of organisations who have worked seriously on things that have the antennas out and the feet planted on the ground and who listen to how people experience the early and flex-job reform. But that is why they deserve a serious approach, and I think they can do so, by discussing it in the conciliation circle when we meet and have the full evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185151	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185153	Thank you. I fully agree that they deserve a serious approach. Perhaps they could have been given this by taking a specific look at the individual proposals and what the pros and cons of them were. I guess it could be serious, too. But I hear I'm not going any further, and you have to be happy for a little. I am no longer going to come along, and I would like to acknowledge that it is a positive thing; even though one might be able to smile a little teasing sometimes, it is in fact a positive thing than the rapporteur saying: yes, we should have these proposals with us. It is not the same as they are being implemented, I know that, but you want to give them serious treatment, turn and turn them, discuss for and against and find out what they cost, and all that, and consider whether it is something that needs to be involved. After all, the proposal for adoption made by the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative has almost already been met, so I am actually pleased about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185249	Now, of course, I am most pleased with the proposal for adoption of which the Left is part. I think that is absolutely the best text, and you can vote for it as well. However, these proposals have been put forward in the best sense, which is that we must ensure that people who still have a working capacity get closer to the labour market. And they are also presented with a starting point about how, if you have a current employer and the employer has helped you for a period of time, you can ensure that you may still be able to stay at the specific workplace. That is another suggestion. I think they deserve us to go in and work seriously with them in the conciliation circle when we have the full picture of the evaluation of this huge reform. It'll be the Left's approach to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185348	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185404	Thank you. Now I came down here because I wanted to hear the highest capacity we have in the ranks of parties in the Folketing, namely the rapporteurs in the labour market area, because I have been looking forward to hearing for two weeks now, especially of course what the big parties think about these six proposals. Then it is a little disappointing to come down here and be told that this is not something you want to discuss in public and that it is not serious when we discuss it; it is serious when you sit in a closed room with the minister. Isn't it a little bit to kick people who may have been working on this for a long time that you don't even want to take their proposals so seriously that you want to comment on them one by one? The rapporteur certainly disappoints me. Now I have taken an extraordinary hour off because I thought that now I would like to see what is in this, how the parties stand and how far we can go, because we know there are problems in this area. Could we not just sneak a little serious talk out of the rapporteur? Does the rapporteur himself feel that he has nothing but frivolous talk about these proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185444	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185454	Ah, sir. Christian Juhl. I think I had an excellent dialogue with Mr. Finn Sørensen on these very proposals, and I almost understood Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen's so appreciative nod that it could be a serious approach to take it to the meeting that will be in the conciliation circle when we have the overall evaluation. I have even had a meeting with representatives of the authors of these proposals. So I've discussed it. I think the rapporteur puts a few words in my mouth that were not entirely serious. I mean, I think this is the starting point for the discussion that we need to have forward-looking, and we will certainly have that. I just think it should be on an enlightened basis that we are taking that discussion, and there is not today. That is why I am not going to comment on every single point of the proposals that have been made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185551	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185553	I am not asking for every decimal point to be reversed here either, because it can mean a great deal, and it can also mean a great deal what the rapporteurs say. But the fact that our general rapporteur speaks on the major federal proposals is probably quite central to the public debate too, so we know where the parties stand. It has nothing to do with putting people's words in their mouths, it has something to do with just getting a little from here. Well, it's a good thing I live over here. If I had left Jutland to come and listen to this, I would be a little disappointed that I didn't get anything in terms of content. I mean, here are some who have probably been working for months to find out some of the most important things. I guess it's also to expect you to get a hint, not a comma or the smallest decimal, but a hint of where it can carry us. Are there any of the six proposals that can really bear the right path?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185654	I shall try to be brief and keep to the speaking time. There are six specific proposals and one goes on a legal requirement in which the proposers say that if you have a working capacity reduced to 7 hours or less, then you have to have a legal requirement for an early retirement pension. It is, of course, a very specific proposal which will be a breach of the principles underlying the reform that we have carried out, on which a large majority has agreed in this Chamber. We must then have a debate on this if we are to break with the principles underlying the entire early retirement reform. But I would like to conclude by saying that there has been some serious work behind it. And I will certainly take those proposals with me when we discuss the evaluation in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185746	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185749	Thanks to the previous questioner, we started a tiny bit. So I also think that it will be a little meaningless. It says on the board: "What can the Minister say about his position on the six proposals for amendments to the legislation on early retirement and flexible work...·? If every rapporteur, apart from the Socialist rapporteur who said a little, says that I am not going to comment on that, then we will not have a professional debate. Then it must be a marathon walk to listen to this, because I think that quite a lot of people are following. So can we not raise it to a slightly more theoretical level and say non-committal, with our professionalism on an enlightened basis, and that is what we have here? I am on an enlightened basis, and I think Parliament is gradually following all the debate we have had. Can the rapporteur say a little about the possible advantages and disadvantages of some of the proposals? I will in no way oblige the rapporteur to do so later or to stop the rapporteur from doing so, but so that we can get a little bit of professionalism into the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185850	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185852	Now we are not normal, at least not in my party, the Left, supporters of free rounds. If we say something, it is because we mean it and also because we will then implement it. So to stand and say or try to lure you into that we could also etc. etc., is weird. I think that the rapporteur could then contribute to the debate by providing information on, for example: How many more people will this include? What will the cost be if the six proposals are implemented? In the past, how many people will be granted an early retirement pension or qualify for an early retirement pension? The answer to some of these questions could be interesting to hear if the rapporteur could unfold it, because it could enrich the debate. I still have the view that I will take these proposals with me and have them processed when we meet in the conciliation circle at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185951	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206185954	Yes, but now it is the rapporteur who has a ministry in his back. I also think that these questions were relevant and good, so since the rapporteur has a few hundred more officials to help him than I have, can the rapporteur himself try to answer them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190011	The last time I spoke up on the third floor, I had a few employees to help me and not a few hundred. That needs to be corrected, I think, if anyone has that view. I think that we should give these proposals serious consideration, and we should discuss them together with other proposals that could come in time for us to have the overall evaluation of the early retirement and flexible job reform, and so I think that we will also need some clarification on the overall evaluation, but we will take that in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190054	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190102	I find it difficult to see that I can add much new to this debate, which has been running for a number of hours now. After all, we are in complete agreement and I think we are broadly in favour of the shortcomings and shortcomings of the reform. We have talked about the balance between those who can work, of course, having the opportunity to help work and those who cannot have an early retirement pension. In relation to the specific question, I would like to try to give my opinion on what we in the Liberal Alliance think in general terms. I think it is very wise what has been said earlier about taking them with you, taking them down and getting a little deeper with it when you sit and also have the evaluation. But overall, of course, I can say on a stand-by basis what I think in general terms. There are, after all, three fundamental elements in the six specific proposals. In relation to that part about the legal requirement, I think it is actually difficult, because in reality the best thing would have been to have had a very good municipal procedure. Then you didn't have to start talking about legal requirements. When we start to talk about legal requirements, it is precisely because we have seen some citizens who have not had the optimal treatment. After all, the advantage of legal requirements is to ensure, in one way or another, that the legislation we are making in here is implemented, as we would like, and that citizens have a legal requirement. The disadvantage is also that when you lay down such very clear rules, you can also more easily bypass them. So it is not because I think that the legal part is necessarily easy to implement, as it is presented in the specific proposals, but I understand the thinking behind it, namely that people who need an early retirement pension and must have it will also be assured. So there's at least something that I think is interesting to dive into, so how can you ensure it? This is one of the things we have tried to ensure through the clarifications that we had during the previous query debate, but it could be interesting enough to look at that part. It is no surprise that we in the Liberal Alliance do not believe that it should be raised to the level of sickness benefit. I think that most people can figure out that this will be our position. Then there is the proposal that pay and working conditions for flexible jobs should be established in cooperation with the trade union movement. So there I think it's somehow a bit off in relation to the Danish model, where you don't go in and legislate around this. I think that is basically a bad idea, because as a trade union movement one will try to impose its wishes on pay and working conditions by means of legislation. However, as I said and as the previous rapporteurs said, this is something we will be discussing when we have the full evaluation, but now I am trying to come up with something like this about what our take is like at the moment in relation to what we know now and that is the take.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190438	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190440	Thank you. In fact, I would like to thank the rapporteur for that. And I would just like to say that this is not the first time that I have seen it, that is to say that the rapporteur is actually in a position, even though the rapporteur is involved in some sort of conciliation, to deal fairly independently with the proposals that lie in it. Then the rose stops when I hear what the rapporteur says about the various proposals. Thank you, however, for making clear statements, and that is where my neck hair is getting up a little, because the Liberal Alliance is in the conciliation circle. And that means that the Liberal Alliance actually has the opportunity to block the proposals to which the rapporteur said: you can forget that. That was the increase in resource flow performance. The last proposal is to give the trade unions back the role they lost when they made the reform. Because it happened that they wrote the unions out of the law. The trade unions had the right to negotiate on behalf of the flex-jobs in the old scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190548	Well, well, it is absolutely true that what is probably most important for us to fight against is that the amount of resource progression benefit should rise to the level of sickness benefit. It is, of course, relatively easy to get in the way of resources, and we do not think it should be relatively easy to get one of the highest benefits we have in our system. So there is no doubt that of the proposals that lie here, it is the proposal that is most in the eyes of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190620	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190622	Thank you. Then I can only hope for one thing, and it is that the right of veto of the Liberal Alliance is going as badly on this issue as it has on so many other issues, because otherwise we have had the difficulties of being a member of this conciliation group if we want to move in the direction that these trade unions want. There is at least one party that says clearly that they want to block the improvement of resource delivery. I am sorry to hear that this is the position, but unfortunately it is a reality in that conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190703	Well, it's a reality, it's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190705	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190709	Thank you. But there were also two clear reports. One has Mr. Finn Sørensen just mentioned. I myself have been active in the trade union for a number of years, where we negotiated conditions for flex jobs. I would say that this has been the area where I have worked as a professional trade union person, where we have had the most flexible and the best dialogues with the employer on how we make this work. How are we going to get our fellow MEPs to make it work so that it doesn't go wrong? How do we take into account the need for a flexible job? How do we organize the salary so that it doesn't make the flex jober sicker and that kind of thing? And then, of course, we also said: how do we find out that the wage then fits into the collective bargaining system? It was, in fact, a much more dynamic and flexible system than if we were to say from above that we, the legislator, should decide that. I can certainly recommend decentralization of these things to local trade unions. It is a huge advantage when it comes to establishing seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190819	I did not hear a specific question, but a call to respect the social partners in the model we know.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190829	Sir. Christian Juhl wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190832	I am very much in favour of it being a brief remark, which means making a comment and having a comment, so there is also a dialogue here. It is in fact in line with what I tried to describe before, namely that if you leave it to the local forces, the employers and the unions locally, and try to find solutions, you will get some really good solutions. And it is not rigid, as the rapporteur says, on the contrary. This is the most dynamic system one can even think of in this area, and it gives many, many more successes in terms of placement of people in flex jobs • many, many more. And then I would like to say that I am very, very disappointed that people who are at risk cannot even be given a legal right, that is to say a right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190906	Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190914	In relation to the latter, I would like to say that it was not such a stubborn attitude that we would not be talking about legal requirements. In fact, I said that I think the proposals on legal requirements are difficult. Because I see that when you experience municipalities that do not comply with legislation over and over again, you want to talk about the fact that it may then be that from here we have to talk about legal requirements, because then we feel more confident that those citizens who cannot work can get an early retirement pension when they have to. But I do not think it is straightforward in relation to the proposals that lie there. But I do not think it is uninteresting to discuss, and I think we will do so when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206190953	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206191000	Thank you. I have here a document in which 59 professional organisations have made six proposals to improve the provisions on early retirement and flexible job reform. I really think it is an incredibly marvelous document. So, how often do we see that so many organisations join forces and try to influence reform so directly here in Denmark? I'm still gone quite new, but I've never seen anything like it. And it is not only those who are also 5 large municipalities that have made a number of suggestions to improve this early retirement and flexible job reform. In fact, a social resistance movement has grown up around this reform with organisations that probably had not existed at all without the huge Facebook groups for those affected by the reform, for example. The job center's victims, as well as large Facebook groups and physical offices where people help these people, such as: Next helpers and fight poverty now. Group by group has grown up in what we call the social resistance movement, and they are struggling to mitigate the personal consequences that the reform has had for them and to change it. There is further support. This weekend we organized a 24-hour marathon reading over at the Alternative, where stories were read from people affected by this reform and where it was described the consequences it has for their lives, their everyday lives and their family, and it has poured in with people... party presidents, social activists, politicians, artists and all sorts of other people who would be readers of those stories. We have had to say no to some people who would like to read out the reports of those affected by the reform to show the consequences of the reform, of course in the spirit of conciliation, in the hope that we will consider adjusting this reform so much that people get out of the trap. I just want to say that we've done this event together with the Job Center's victims, the Next Helpers, fighting poverty now and the Enhedslisten. That is why I am also despaired that the main evaluation is dragging on to something that might seem to be only after the next change of government. I know it is the same circle of conciliation, and the argument is that it should be done properly, but frankly, could not be speeded up? The air is thick with suggestions to adjust this reform. Never have I seen any government get so much help adjusting a reform. That is why I think there must be conditions for speeding it up. After all, we are all trying to make good proposals, and I do not want to go into these six specific proposals very much, but I would just like to say a few words about them. The first proposal is that, in the case of working capacity reduced to 7 hours, the citizen should choose between resource cycles, flexible jobs or early retirement. So this is what we have to find an hour limit. I think that is wise, and it has also been put forward before 7 hours, I do not know. The problem is that if you don't do it right, it takes a work test. We are not going to go out again into endless work tests to identify minimal work capacity, and then finally, when people are half dead, they can get their early retirement. We need to be able to catch it before, among other things. Knows that we don't have to send them in these job tests. On the other hand, I would like to say to the rapporteur that we must have a maximum overall period of five years: yes! And for my sake, it may be even shorter, like only one course, like shorter job tests, and there may very well be a limit to how many job tests there can be. Then there is the third proposal, which reads: "The citizen must be able to apply for resources and thus be able to complain about resource processes. To that I would say: Yes! It's just a big yes from here. The fourth proposal reads: "Access to maintenance-flex jobs must be facilitated, including the abolition of the requirement of 12 months of prior employment according to the social chapters or under special conditions. The fact that you destroyed the restraint flexible job scheme was simply a pity, because it means that people who have a flexible job in a company are in danger of losing it. That is what is happening at the moment. Even if it is because it was thought that the scheme would be cheated, I do not know, but it should be re-established. Then there is the fifth proposal that the resource progression benefit should be at the level of sickness benefit. This is one of the most beautiful proposals, but perhaps one of the most unrealistic. In other words, it will be difficult to raise the rate so much, although we would certainly like to support it. The sixth proposal reads: "In the case of employment in flex jobs, pay and working conditions must be established in cooperation with the professional organisations. Yes, the area of flex jobs is outlawed. In other words, there are no rights and working and contractual relationships on which we can rely. So I'm gonna say yes to that. There are other things that could also be a very good idea. I hardly make it anymore, but I would like to see the opportunity provided for the meeting with the case workers, as the mayor of Norddjurs Municipality, Jan Petersen, described it for the hearing here the second day that his municipality is one of those where the most early retirement pensions are granted, namely that there is an individual approach to the individual citizen. In fact, they have a word like empowerment as the main work value in their municipal administration, that is to say, that you see the citizen and shape the support and help according to the needs of the citizen instead of using a one size fit all-solution, which I sometimes think seems a little based on cash thinking, and which has, of course, put us in a terrible mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206191518	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206191528	Too many people are caught up and far too many municipalities treat their citizens as if they were their opponents. Now, to my liking, the conciliation circle has taken far too long to achieve this, but it has nevertheless reached some adjustments which have been presented earlier today. Nor does the SF think that the adjustment that we have reached is quite comprehensive enough, but the amendment of the law presented by the conciliation parties is nevertheless a step in the right direction, and the SF is very pleased with that. For it is high time that the Folketing intervened against the national lottery that is taking place. Today, the number of the person obviously has a decisive influence on the treatment given to the sick citizen. If we are to deal seriously with the six proposals from the professional organizations, it will take a little more time. I think that this is a serious initiative which deserves to be dealt with in depth, and that is indissolubly linked to the evaluation of the reform. But I have to say that it is a pleasure for me to read the proposals. They are, of course, entirely in line with the title which the SF has put in place for the revision of the law, namely to grant more rights to citizens. If I look at the proposals, I can see that there is only a suggestion that when the ability to work is less than 7 hours, it should be the citizen himself who can choose between resource processes, flexible jobs or early retirement. I think it's a little modest. I think 7 hours is a pretty high limit. I would have preferred five hours myself, but check on that proposal. Proposal No 2 states that if the municipality cannot clarify the citizen within five years, then the citizen must be able to choose between rehabilitation, flexible jobs, resource development or early retirement. I'll check it out. Maybe again, five years can be a little long. I think that we could put some stop tests, if I may say so, into something earlier, but otherwise check on the proposal. The third proposal is that the citizen should be able to apply for resources and thus be able to complain about it. Check it out. The fourth is that access to restraint flexible jobs must be facilitated. Unconditional check for it. Now I take the suggestion, which is indeed the number. 6, in fact, that in the case of employment in flex jobs, wage and employment relationships must be established in cooperation with the trade union organizations and, moreover, in accordance with pay and employment conditions laid down in collective agreements. Check it out. Then we have the last proposal, which is that the resource progression benefit should be at the level of sickness benefit. This requires us to see how much money it will cost, and it will also be included in the priorities we have for our economic policy. I'm not going to deny it in advance, but I'm gonna look at how much it's going to cost, so I'm gonna put it on standby. But otherwise check for the other five.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206191828	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206191831	Thank you. Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the cash approach to the proposals. I think that the organisations that have made them are happy with the five picks and are probably also well aware that the sixth notch requires closer economic assessments. Now, in the previous question, I heard the rapporteur say that we are working within the current financial framework for the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. Is it the rapporteur's view that there is room to meet the demands of the sixth, but all the others also cost some money within the financial framework of the reform now?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206191919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206191921	Yes, I really do not think that there should be something here that is so costly. But now it's not the first time that Mr. Finn Sørensen chooses a skewed angle on this debate as if it were the economy of what was driving. In any case, as far as the SF is concerned, we have not started by saying that now we will save some money in this area and then we will find the tools for it afterwards. We've gone the other way. We have said that here there are so obvious some citizens who need society to give them a helping hand. We do not think it is optimal that 17 000 people were granted early retirement in 2011. This is equivalent to a third of the birth year that is sent out of the labour market. That's not a dignified way to treat these people. It is not primarily for me that there would be an economic gain by those people coming to work. It is about the fact that it is not a worthy, proper way of treating other people. Fortunately, we are in a situation where a number of diseases can then be cured. We're spending 150 billion dollars. kr. a year on a health service, and fortunately this also means that the young person of 30 years of age who can have a mental illness has a chance to get out of it and therefore should not have an early retirement pension. It's a financial gain, but that's not what drove it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192029	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192031	I don't think it's so strange that I'm asking about the economy of it. It is not Enhedslisten who has set the savings target. SF has this with the other conciliation parties, and it is a clear saving target. That is clear from the agreement, from the conciliation at the time, and this is clear from the draft law. There's no doubt that these billions of dollars will have to be saved. And then it is natural that, when I hear the SF's rapporteur make some really positive feedback on almost all the demands, I ask whether there is room for it now within the financial framework that is in the conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192111	In fact, I do not think that these proposals contain these extra costs. I don't see how that should be done. The granting of rights to citizens should not necessarily cost a lot of money. But then I would say that in another role I am the transport rapporteur. For example, we are discussing the speed limits on our roads. After all, we do this because we want to save lives and make sure that not many people get hurt, and then we put in speed controls around. See, when you do that, it also gives money in the box, and it is then entered in the state budget, and then there are some people who say: Now you do it because you want money in the box. We didn't. We did it to keep people from driving themselves to death and getting hurt. Then it also gives an economic profit, but that is not what drives it. It is not the economy that drives us here either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192154	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192156	I also think that we can discuss and ask ourselves about the savings that the SF itself has helped to achieve. If this means that one has to compromise with the austerity targets to ensure that vulnerable and sick Danes who are currently trapped by this reform can get out of it, will the SF stand on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192223	There's nothing going on with me because I have to repeat it. For SF, this is not an exercise in saving. It is an exercise in reaching out to sick, vulnerable and vulnerable people a helping hand by entering the labour market. That is why it is a success for the SF that we have got many miniflex jobs. For SF, it is a success that people can get an alternative to being on early retirement. This is about giving citizens rights. It is also a question of the municipalities simply correcting and treating citizens more equally and more equally. Now I can see that another member of the Folketing said at one point that one would not take up the mayor's post in Copenhagen because one did not want to be forced to whip the unemployed and send them out and clear Amager Common to the willow herb. That is a very, I think, limited way of looking at politics. I see this as an opportunity for the municipalities too to meet the citizens and help people. It's not about saving money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192318	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192322	That was a strange comparison, though. But in order not to get too far away from the subject, I do not want to comment on it. The answer that the rapporteur repeated had nothing to do with my question. What I asked was: If it is the case that one has to compromise on the savings targets to ensure the well-being of the exposed Danes, is the SF ready for that? Or asked more generally: is there anything that would do that SF terminated this reform before an election? And if not, if it is such that it is so great an advantage that the SF is involved, can the rapporteur not mention some of the things that the SF has got into this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192402	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192404	Well, I have explained many times that for SF the financial framework is not crucial. We are so interested in adding more money to this, in social policy and in all sorts of other ways. It's just not in that settlement. But Mr. Torsten Gejl could then, next time he gets the floor, try to explain to me whether a single sick person in this country will feel better if SF stepped out of the conciliation circle. That's something, yes, I'm sorry, I'm saying it politically wrong. It doesn't belong anywhere. 'Cause it's moving nothing out of the real world. It could move out in reality if the alternative in Copenhagen might have had so much political courage to take on the mayor's post, so that you could help make life easier for the sick and vulnerable rather than sit around and deal with things that are completely on the edge of what else you are trying to profile yourself on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192441	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192444	After all, it is a matter of temperament when people say "no' and go into a conciliation circle. There are so many things like that. I have been standing for six months now asking to get into a conciliation circle, and that cannot be done. It's physically impossible, and that's the way it is. But I just mean, for an old man not old, but a long-standing trade unionist it would be on the flat hand to say, even when you enter the circle, that there are some core points here, for example. These things. I would like to hear from the SF's rapporteur whether it does not make a very strong impression that as many as 59 federations and organisations, a number of spontaneous movements, have actually devoted immensely much energy to saying that here is something that needs to be changed centrally. It is rare for us to experience it in this area because people are becoming apathetic, because it is as if the system is so hard that you can hardly go against it. After all, there are some who have worked systematically to say: could we not have it changed? Does it also impress a long-standing trade unionist that so many people have been concerned about such an important area as this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192550	I really hope that makes an impression on all sorts of people, regardless of their background. I myself have very close contact with both the professional organisations, but also the social movements, which have both my support and my support and I participate in their events. I think it's good to see people resist. It is clear that when you are under pressure, it is good to experience that you can organize and resign. It's good in all kinds of ways. What I was trying to make a comparison with before was this: that SF as part of a settlement would rather be inside and try to influence it. At least that's what my experience is. And this is true, from taking on a mayor's seat in a municipality to holding hands under it instead of just sitting around and whistling a song from the hot countries in an office next to that you actually assume responsibility for SF assuming responsibility by being part of this conciliation circle. And today we have presented concrete changes to three legal clauses that make life easier and make the disadvantaged stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192645	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192647	Now I can reassure the rapporteur that the city roots of Enhedslisten in virtually all municipalities sit and participate in labour market policy, even centrally, if you take it quite country. And now Copenhagen is not the only place that happens. In fact, there are a lot of places to do this and I would like to highlight my own municipality, Silkeborg Municipality, where Enhedslisten and the rest of the left have helped to create some really good solutions. I guess it's just as important that we highlight it. So I would like to ask: how does the rapporteur intend, after an election, to ensure that this conciliation circle can be broken up so that the SF and others can use the majority that is likely to be with a new government, rather than sticking to a conciliation circle that will hardly move out of place?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192740	Yes, yes, and I fully acknowledge that many of Enhedslisten's local politicians are doing a fantastic job here. Now it is just the case that it is Copenhagen, which is one of the worst municipalities in terms of treating their sick and vulnerable citizens properly, and precisely the municipality where both Enhedslisten and the Alternative are so profiling themselves on it, but on the day of taking over responsibility, you suddenly have something else to do in the neighboring room instead of assuming responsibility. This is a little related to the conciliation circle. What on earth would it change if the SF stepped out of it? It's just a chat. That doesn't change anything. Surely there is no prospect of conciliation being terminated, not at all. The minority against the settlement gets just a little bit bigger by SF stepping out. That doesn't change anything. Speaking of my past: on the contrary, I see SF as the trust representative of the sick and the vulnerable at the negotiating table. That's where things are moved, and there's SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192824	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so now it is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206192833	Thank you. At the beginning of the debate, I explained the views that I have. But here, after many hours of good debate, I still feel that Mr. Finn Sørensen and, for that matter, Mr. Bent Bøgsted for putting this important discussion on the agenda here in Parliament. Not least, I would like to sign again for the hearing that was held last week, which I actually think deserves attention. I think the beauty of parliamentary work is that we in Denmark feel that some of those who are affected by the reforms we are adopting have the opportunity to speak out, so that it is not only through politicians that we can do so. The impression was then given that there is only one shop steward for the sick present in the conciliation circle, and the mistake which I think was an unconscious error from Mr. Karsten Hønge's side, I'd like to correct. I now consider all the parties in the conciliation circle to be deeply responsible. And that is why I would like to sign again today for a good cooperation. I do not need to say that there are some who are better than others, but it is clear that there are different political views on this. I suppose there was also a reason why the then Socialist-led government wanted to make a broad political agreement. Well, that's a lot to think about. I think it was wise that Mrs Mette Frederiksen made a broad political agreement. I think that actually makes it really, really durable. And in general, the good answer when it comes to making long-term agreements is to make broad agreements. I would also like to sign for this today, as I would like to thank the Social Democrats for their good cooperation on this issue, which is certainly difficult and in which we often find it difficult to discuss it. During the last debate, Mr. Torsten Gejl is very concerned about whether anything ever happened in this society on this whole reform issue. And I can see from here not hearing, but see that mr. Torsten Gejl welcomes what I am saying, understood in the sense that I have, of course, proposed that the great evaluation that will take place shortly should lead to changes and clarifications which can then be made in the next Assembly. It is not for the purpose of its entry into force until mid 2019 or at the end of 2019, so that it can enter into force on 1 January 2019. So there is no delay on my part in this either. You got that impression when Mr. Torsten Gejl had given the post that we are sitting on our hands, that we are completely argument-resistant; we do not understand anything, it rushes in with raw-fried pigeons on our table, and why don't we eat? Because we're actually going to say to mr. Torsten Gejl has now endeavoured to obtain an enlightened basis, which is something, Mr. Torsten Gejl usually, when he makes major speeches and attends political meetings with me, appreciates very much. And that is why I have to say that I was a little shocked that Mr. Torsten Gejl so precisely on this point says that we must now take action here a few weeks before we have the final evaluation. But let it be; we shall come back to that. But from this point of view, thank you for a fine debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193154	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193158	Well, I would like to acknowledge that the time for the legislation that comes as a consequence of the big evaluation has now been brought forward to January 1, 2019, as I understand it. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Hans Andersen said it was in the fall of 2019. It means infinitely much to really, very many people. At least I feel like we've gotten a little out of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193229	There was nothing new in what I said now, compared to what I said during the last round, I just want to say if anyone is thinking: Did I miss something? And I can see from here that Mr. Finn Sørensen looks very suspicious. No, no one's missed anything. I said we're gonna negotiate this in the spring. Then it is my clear expectation and hope that we can put forward a bill in October, which can be adopted in autumn 2018 and which can enter into force on 1 January 2019. That is what we are going for, and there is nothing new about it at all. But it is also clear that Mr. Hans Andersen has no idea how those negotiations will take place among the conciliation parties. I do not reveal any secret by saying that I believe there are different views. That's what you might say, sir. Finn Sørensen would like to have a public discussion here today and respect for it and Mr. Finn Sørensen would like to have the conciliation negotiations down here in Parliament, and Mr. Karsten Hønge has one proposal, Mrs Laura Lindahl has another, and Mr. Hans Andersen has a third. That is the way it is, and we must discuss it with each other. But I am quite convinced that the conciliation circle will, of course, agree on the initiatives which may be needed and which may enter into force per year. Turn of year 2018-19.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193331	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193334	Thank you. In another area in the field of health and safety, a committee of experts was set up and I do not know whether it is the case that when you become half-old you think: should you really invent the deep plate every time you have to make a change? That is what I said at the time, but I also listened to the Minister and he said: we can do something along the way of what we know to work, we do not have to wait for a committee of experts. I think that is how the Minister said it, and I thought it was positive. Because we have moved a little along the way. But in this area, it's like there are things that are quite obvious in this proposal from so many organizations. We have to say that, although one may have been a minister for many years and in many different ministries, it is not so often that so many organizations of interest and so many spontaneous movements react to something one does. It must make a certain impression, even if you are hardened over the years, that so many react. I mean, why can't any of what we know works in this area be done, for example. to involve the trade unions in setting up local flex jobs? It's an element that's a service to everyone...
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193441	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193447	Thank you. In the first speech, which I certainly believe Mr. Christian Juhl heard, for it was good, I noted in my reply to Mr. Finn Sørensen's question that I was also interested in discussing this whole theme. So that's what Mr. Christian Juhl now begins to postulate here, i.e. that I will not relate to anything at all or do anything at all, comes a little as a surprise to me. Because it was addressed there. But leave it alone. I fully agree that some of these points are quite excellent and deserve a political discussion. But I also know that Mr. Christian Juhl about someone is driven by the fact that if you have documentation and proof of something, then you also have to move forward on the record, and now it is a few weeks before there is an evaluation that will make us much wiser than we are today. Then I wonder why you can't just wait a few weeks before you can relate to the overall picture. It's kind of just what I think is a little weird. Because in many areas it is, sir. Christian Juhl is going to say, not always quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193555	Let's try it again. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193557	Thank you. I just think that I was about to give an example of the fact that you do not have to wait for an evaluation of it. It is logic for everyone who works locally with the labour market that if you help things along, it works more flexibly and better, and you find local solutions. Here we have with a central control of it all pushed away those who can help convey a good job. So it's just getting started, and I think there's even money to make on it. At least there is quality to be earned from it. The quality of flexible jobs is improved by involving local partners in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193637	Yes, it may well be, and that is why we are going to discuss it here, and I actually said to Mr. Christian Juhl or Mr. Finn Sørensen, because what I had said before was very agreeable in my reply that I took off my hat for the work that was done. I think it is a serious piece of work, I would like to say, and I also think it is a work that deserves both political attention and recognition. But the fact that it is the Enhedslisten who has to decide when to decide on what initiatives we want to deal with cannot be said. After all, we have not yet come to that end. The Enhedslisten does not yet have 90 seats, and I will also work until I have to die, so that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193717	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193720	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Minister whether it is possible for the Minister to calculate what these six proposals really cost if they are to be implemented, as proposed here in the six proposals that have come from the associations. We are aware that they are not all cheap. There's a little difference here. But is it possible that the Minister will have a calculation of what the six proposals cost and then send it to the committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193754	Yeah, I think that's a good idea, because otherwise you could just put it in writing. So now we have taken some sense of it, and I have said that yes, I would like to answer that, so of course I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193804	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193806	I just need to be clear about this. Should we send a question in writing from the committee, or is it enough that I have asked the Minister here today? It's just to make no mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193818	Yes, it should be enough that it has been said and it has been asked in the Assembly. It never hurts for the sake of bureaucracy to send it in writing, but because we are now where we are, I think we can just take my answer for good goods, namely that I will come back with an economic calculation based on the initiatives that have been lined up here, that is to say the six proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193837	Thank you, Minister. And then it's sir. Finn Sørensen for final comments on the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206193849	Thank you. As one of the authors of the question, I would just like to say briefly how I have experienced today's debate. It is many hours that we have spent on it, but I do not regret a single second, and I hope the other rapporteurs do not. Sometimes we can feel when we have had such a long debate and when we have had the floor many times and asked questions and made sure that it was then a very good debate. But I think we should be careful about that feeling, because if we look at what has happened here today a little realistically, and we try to put ourselves in the position of those affected by the reform, which is what they call themselves, it is very, very little concrete that these people have brought home. I think they are still sitting there waiting for someone to take their situation seriously through action. The only thing we have been given is an oral briefing, one might almost say, and a very small press release and a proposal for the adoption that now come the conciliation parties with the amendment of three legislative clauses, which at least, as has been presented and heard with my ears, are very similar to what is already in the law, and then you can ask yourself how much it changes. We have the benefit of this, and the Enhedslisten will, of course, go into it with an open mind, and I think the others who are not in the conciliation circle will do so. But when thousands of people experience that there is no cash response to their problems when they are chased around in meaningless and often harmful practices and resource cycles, and when they feel they are completely defenceless to it, and when they have no concrete handles to pull in to ensure themselves just a minimum of legal certainty and fair treatment, I think they are sitting there feeling that there is a really long way to go again. When we look at the recent debate on the six in fact very concrete proposals, we see that, unfortunately, it is also a little thin. It is not to be seen as a criticism of the speeches made by the rapporteur, but the question was, of course, about dealing with these six specific proposals, and there was in fact a party that was related to them all, and in addition there was a party that was related to some of them, in addition to the authors of the question doing so, and it was the SF that put the finger on five of the proposals and questioned the sixth, and then the Liberal Alliance could see some idea in this with legal certainty for the citizen and otherwise shot down two of the other proposals. So that is what we are left with in concrete terms. Then it's not about, sir. Minister, that Enhedslisten will decide when something should be decided. It would be nice if it could be done, no doubt about it - but this question has been about us all having to challenge each other to make some concrete announcements about the proposals that have come from outside, and I think it would be good if we did so even more. There was a single rapporteur who thought it might be too much of the good, but surely it cannot be too much of the good if we, as members of the Folketing, look at the concrete proposals of the citizens on how we can regulate the legislation. So I hope we will do so more. Then there is a discussion about being in a settlement and not being in a settlement. I just want to put it this way: if all parties in this Parliament had been involved in the conciliation on early retirement and flexible jobs, we would not have got to where we are today, because what happens is that when you are involved in a conciliation, you also have to defend that conciliation. It is a principle that we recognise in the Enhedslisten, and that is why we do not just opt into a settlement and then go and scold it afterwards. We must respect the conciliation that we enter into and, if we have entered into that conciliation, we must, for example, do something about it. defend the austerity framework which, in our view, is the root of the evil and has been a greater driving force than some will give it the appearance of. Then I would like to say that we would not have come here at all today if we had not had some people who dared to stand up and tell us how the legislation works on them, if we had not had some municipalities that dared to resign, and if we had not had a long, long series of trade unions that have said that that is enough, then concrete changes will have to be made to protect our Members. We look forward to further work on this. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206194358	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Thursday 8 February 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180206194411	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 7 February 2018, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
