ParlaMint-DK_20181128130246	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 117 (Proposal for a law amending the law on collection, etc.) and the law on foundations and certain associations. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 118 (Proposal for a law amending the law on aliens and the law on Danish citizenship. Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 52 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a referendum on Danish membership of the banking union). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. I should like to point out that after the agenda has been published, Question No 1 will be answered in writing. S268 to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior has been moved up as Question No. 1 in today's order of questions. The groups and the questioner are informed of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130347	We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 1 3 on the agenda, cf. The President's announcement above) Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130401	I give the floor to the author of the question for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130405	Thank you. Is the Minister prepared to take responsibility for the fact that the decision to move the Environmental Economic Council to Horsens has meant that we will lose all environmental expertise in the Council and that next year's environmental report will be delayed, reduced and probably significantly deteriorated?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130425	Thank you for the question. In general terms, I am confident that the Environmental Economic Council will be able to fulfil its tasks, even if the secretariat of the Economic Council moves to Horsens. Let me begin by making one thing clear: it is the secretariat that is moving to Horsens; it is not the wise men; it is not the Economic Council; it is not the Environmental Economic Council. It has been part of the government's policy that there should be state jobs throughout the country, and therefore the government has decided that the secretariat serving the wise men should move to Horsens. The task of the Environmental Economic Council is, according to the law, to highlight the interaction between the economy and the environment, and to highlight the effectiveness of environmental action. The Council was set up in 2007 in the context of a revision of the Act on Economic Councils. The Council consists of a Presidency called the Wise Men and a further 16 members representing the social partners, business organisations, environmental organisations and government. In addition, there are four people who are particularly knowledgeable in the interaction between economics and the environment, i.e. together 24 members. It is essential to bear in mind that neither the composition nor the Council's tasks are changed because we move the secretariat from Copenhagen to Horsens. So there will still be the same environmental expertise in the Council and the Presidency will continue to set the framework for analysis and responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130602	What has been mentioned is that a total of six environmental economists have resigned, which is all the trade union workers in the secretariat's environmental economic analysis unit. That is what has been said in the press, and that is what I have chosen to do. So, in Enhedslisten, we are more interested in creating jobs than moving around the existing ones. And when SKAT e.g. We think it is quite natural that we should consider whether there are some of the jobs that can be created in the province. But otherwise we have seen some relocations where it can be said that it is sometimes less important. I believe, for example, that when you move the Hunting Museum to Djursland, there will probably be a little less information for some time about the historical hunting development in Denmark. We can live with that. However, when you move the Economic Council's environmental secretariat to Horsens and all the council's environmental workers do not want to move the 250 km with their workplace, this means that the next environmental report will be shorter than usual, and that we have the prospect that the Council's work will also deteriorate in 2019 and 2020, as the press has shown. And we think that is a major problem. We have a very strong need for recommendations on how best and cheapest to reach CO2 In the last report there were good recommendations that if you were to hunt down those reductions, it would be easier and cheaper to do so in agriculture than to do so by reducing passenger car transport. After all, these are the kinds of analyses we need, and that is what the government has opted out of its own draft climate action and hot air action. These are signs that the report has not been read carefully enough. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is better to balance the loss of professional expertise in the environmental field in an age where priority is given to the cheapest CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130801	The government is very concerned to ensure that we reduce CO2 This is the best thing for the economy, not only for the climate and the environment. We are also working on this in some of the proposals that we have made in relation to both the climate and the issue of air pollution, to which the questioner also refers. I just want to make a few things clear: there is no requirement for how many chapters there should be in the reports of the Economic Councils. There are demands on the number of people to come: one for the environment and two for the economy, but neither on the number of chapters nor on the date of the year to be published. So you have to bear in mind that it may have been a little different in a relocation process.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130848	Yes, but it may well be that there are the same number of chapters, but there is a risk that the quality, the content of that report, will be lower than what we have seen so far. I think it has been thought-provoking that something has come, which is, what to say, different from mainstream, and I also think it is thought-provoking that the government has not really taken it into account when it comes to the climate effort and the future play-out. I would like to know whether the next step will be to move the Climate Council 250 km away to avoid criticism, or whether you will simply replace a objectively founded government critical president.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128130928	First of all, I think it is a matter of principle that is in relation to the general appointment of the Presidents of various councils, boards and so on. I do not think that is appropriate here, and it is not under my resort either, so it would be strange if I were to go deep into it. What falls within my remit is the Economic Council, and the Environmental Economic Council, and I am, in fact, very concerned that they obviously have some good conditions for carrying out the important work they are doing. That is why I am pleased to have been informed that it is the case that we can still publish the reports that we need to publish. It may be that they appear on a slightly different date, it may be that during a transitional period there will be a chapter smaller, but one of the consequences of wanting a policy to relocate jobs is that during a temporary period there will be a loss of production in relation to the institutions and organisations that are relocated, and I think that we should just be open about that, because there is no need for anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131022	In other words, the Minister takes full responsibility for the fact that we are now entering a period in which the work carried out by the Environmental Economic Council and the recommendations that may come to the political level will for a time become worse. I find this deeply disappointing in an age where we may have ten years to correct the dangerous climate change that we are facing and where, in this sense, priority is needed so that we get the most money. That's what the government is undermining when it relocates to Horsens. Doesn't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131054	No, I think it is a completely unspeakable criticism. I stand at the very end of the work that is being done and that there are some proper conditions for it. You can publish the number of reports you have done so far. Will there be a replacement among some employees when some jobs are relocated? Of course there will be. What is crucial is that quality is in order, and I do not think there is any reason for criticising or questioning that, and that is why I think it is a proper way of doing it. If you want to put people in a position to move jobs from the capital to other parts of Denmark without there being a temporary loss of production, that would be wrong. So either you are in favour of relocations with temporary loss of production or you are not in favour of relocations. You have to choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131139	Thank you to the questioner and to the Minister. That concludes the question. The next question has been put to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131151	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131152	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that security is good enough for people who participate in the so-called exit programmes or otherwise participate in the public debate on gang crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131204	Thank you for the question. I have allowed myself to assume that the background to the question is both the sad and meaningless event about the killing of Nedim Yasar. The police are investigating this case at the moment too fully, so it is too early to conclude anything at this stage. I think that a lot of people are thinking about what it is that is behind this, and basically we don't know anything. But, of course, people are thinking, and I understand that. It is also natural that the matter then means that we are considering whether we are good enough to look after people who have turned their backs on the gang environment, and for the same reason I have called the parties behind the gang package, of which the author's party is also a part, to a meeting next week, and there we will have the opportunity to discuss these issues further. I know that this is a matter which, in addition to so many others, has, of course, also deeply affected the legal rapporteurs, and I look forward to the meeting. I just think that it is certainly too early for me to be able to conclude something with certainty. I fully acknowledge the relevance of the issue, and I just find it hard to conclude that we are doing well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131326	I am in favour of this and, of course, it is also on the basis of the tragic case of Nedim Yasar, and it is not in order to hang the Minister in this way. It's not the Minister's responsibility. Of course, they are the ones who have shot Nedim, who bear full responsibility for it. It is, of course, very delicate with regard to gang crime, and we, as politicians, would really like people to stand up, both to get out of the environment, but also, if they know something, to say it, and I think that the Minister, even before this tragedy, is aware that there are very many people who do not dare to stand up out of fear of reprisals. In other words, how do we ensure that whether you are a debater or a participant in the debate, are politicians or have some opinion about this crime, have even tried to blackmail that you can sort of stand out, and then there is sufficient basis in society for us to take care of them. The Minister admits that there are a lot of people who are simply afraid even before this happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131418	I can't document it by numbers, but I think it's a natural thought when something like this happens, that until we know what the background to his death, that is, what the motive was, it's gonna mean a lot, in terms of how we're supposed to look at all that. That's why I'm a little reluctant. I think it is quite natural that we should ask ourselves: is protection good enough for those who leave the gang environment? How do our exit programs work? And I say that, even though Nedim wasn't in the exit anymore, but that's one of the things we need to investigate, because it's a good thing we're just using this case to think really well about what we're going to do forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131458	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131500	I would like to ask the Minister whether this applies also to radicalised young people, because one is, of course, the exit programmes for the gang environment, that is part of it, but another is whether we also have exit programmes for radicalised young people, in other words people who have been part of Hizb ut-Tahrir, Syrians. Now there are not so many of them who stand out in public, but is it also a group that the Minister is considering? For there it is also important to have a protection for them, because they may also have some former ones in the goose eyes of friends who could be after them. Of course, we have criminals, but we also have radicalised people who participate in our exit programmes. Is it also a group that the Minister will pay particular attention to?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131532	I believe that, regardless of who is leaving criminal environments, radicalised environments, we need to ensure that what we are offering is good enough, and that may in fact be a lot of what we are offering with gang package III; I know that this is the one of the gang packages where we have actually done more in the field of exits. It may well happen that we are doing a great deal of good and that it is as it should be, and now we have a matter which is deeply unhappy, but which is then the deeply unhappy case, and we do not quite know that yet. But I take it very seriously, and that is also why I have called the parties behind the agreement, because I actually think it is important that we keep our own minds on this all the time and ask ourselves the question: are we doing this all right? I just haven't answered it right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131615	I'm glad about that, too. When the Minister tackles whether we do it well enough in relation to people who leave the gang environment, the Minister will also promise to consider the people who are not part of the gang environment, but, for example, those who are not part of the gang environment. has a business, it could be at Nørrebro, where they are blackmailed and like to be able to feel security, compared to if they publicly stand out and tell that their store has been smashed by gang members, or that they are threatened and have to pay money.The minister knows that these things happen, but it is quite a few who stand out and that we also make sure that they, i.e. traders and others who live in those areas, are safe in relation to that of course they can go to the police, and they can also stand out publicly? There we must ensure that they can also feel protected and safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131655	I think we should certainly have a strong focus on that. Now we are in something a little different, but I agree that this threat must never pay off. Fortunately, we have some good provisions in the criminal code that can be used to come after people who are threatening, and if they then threaten people who report afterwards, the trap will be even harder in relation to the amount of punishment. But of course you have to feel safe, and I just want to encourage anyone who is exposed to what the questioner has just mentioned to go to the police, because of course I think there are many ways we can help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131728	That concludes questions. Thank you to the questioner. The next question has been put to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131737	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131739	Thank you for that, President. Will the Minister respond to the waiting time of the police for the issue of driving licences and whether he believes that waiting times for up to several months are satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131752	Thank you for the question. For a period of time there have been far too long processing times in the driving licence cases dealt with by the police. This is particularly true in cases where there are remarks on the citizen's medical certificate and where it is therefore necessary to refer the matter to the health authorities before a decision is taken. Of course, this is not a satisfactory thing far from here and so before the summer break I asked the National Police to draw up a plan for reducing processing times. As a result, the police have launched a number of initiatives in this area. There are, among other things: added more resources to the driving licence area, and efforts are being made to strengthen cooperation with the municipalities and the Agency for Patient Safety. The full impact of the initiatives has not yet been achieved, but it is moving in the right direction. The National Police have reported that the number of cases pending in the field of driving licences has almost halved since July, and the average length of proceedings in the area of driving licences is on the way down. So we're not there yet. The average duration of proceedings is still too long, but it is the expectation of the National Police that the average duration of proceedings will decrease even further by the end of the year. Both the National Police and the Ministry of Justice are closely following developments in the processing period, and we are, of course, constantly considering whether further action is needed to reduce processing times.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128131914	Thank you for your reply to the Minister of Justice. When I have taken this up today, it is because I have had quite a few citizens' requests, typically from older people who have had to have their driving licences renewed. It's taken months. I even think I have an example where it has taken up six months before this permanent driving licence has been received. And that has some consequences that I really think should be outlined. You can get a temporary driver's license. It is such a piece of paper with a stamp on which someone has signed, etc. You can do that in Denmark. The challenge is that if you want to go outside the country's borders, very few countries will accept that solution as a driving licence. This means that it is harder for people to go on holiday if you want to drive yourself. There are plenty of Danes who like to go on camping holidays and who therefore do not have the possibility that they can leave the country if they want to go south with such a temporary issued driving licence. It is, of course, incredibly difficult for those people who had looked forward to it and who think that it is a purely formal matter, what it should be, that is, that you get a new plastic card. It shouldn't be something like that. So I'm very concerned about this, and I'm very concerned about how we can get this right, so people shouldn't have any feeling that it's gonna take six months before they can get a driver's license so they can leave the country. So I want to hear from the Minister that the Minister did not mention what the average waiting time is today. There are many figures around the Internet, but can the Minister tell us quite factually what the actual waiting time is on average and will he also consider whether there is a need for new initiatives to bring it down further?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132102	I think that the best thing I can say right now is, as I said in my speech, that some further steps have actually been taken to push the processing time in the right direction. The challenge is a little that there are also somewhat different complexity in these cases. I am not saying that because I think I should defend it today, because I have just been saying that things need to get better, but there is also a complexity. There are some cases, for example. should ask to speak to the health authorities, that is to say, medical certificates and other things. It could be the kind of thing that's stalling. I might as well just be honest and confess here that I just can't give the figure for the average processing time. All I know is that it has been agreed with the National Police that in 2019 it must not exceed 50 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132150	That's fair enough. I'll ask you about the process time in writing, and then I'll get an answer there. It shall not exceed 50 days in the course of 2019, in round numbers one and a half months. Does the Minister have any idea whether the National Police can deliver on this or whether the National Police will need something to be added or done in another way? Is there a need for the police conciliation circle to come in and take measures that will enable us to achieve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132220	In other words, some initiatives have been taken within the National Police, which means that you think you can achieve it. I just told you, if there's anything else to do, we'll have to take a look at it. And if you do not think you can achieve it, then we must agree completely and take it in the police conciliation circle if there is anything that needs to be done. You have such internal service targets for these days, and that doesn't mean we have to explain that when it has to be an average of 50 days, there are some cases that go quickly, and then we will get some cases sometimes that take a long time because there may be a need for special medical certificates. But I am following it closely, and I would also like to give the questioner the assurance that if we can see that those initiatives do not help, then I will come to the conciliation circle and ask for help.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132308	But then I think I'll just stick to the fact that I look forward to having the Minister in Question Time in such a little time again on this issue to find out if you can deliver on this. For us, it is an important priority not to wait months for a new driving licence to be issued. It shouldn't be like that. So I can only look forward to discussing this again both in the conciliation circle and at a later stage in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132332	I am unspeakably pleased with the questioner's expectation of the government's lifetime.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132337	That concludes the question. I thank the Minister for Justice. We move on to the next question put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132349	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132352	Thank you. Will the Minister answer whether it is reasonable for the municipalities in the border area to bear the cost of accommodation for migrants, such as: has taken place for the municipality of Aabenraa, which is charged a bill of about 0.5 million. kr. in relation to the exceptional migrant situation in September 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132409	The Danish border municipalities and the rest of Denmark were faced with an incredibly large task in 2015. Denmark suddenly experienced that a large number of refugees crossed the Danish borders, in a very short time well to notice. Therefore, it is also important for me to start by saying that the municipalities made a very, very great and nice effort, including the municipality of Aabenraa. It was an extraordinary situation and it required extraordinary funds to be used. During 2015, more than 21,000 people applied for asylum in Denmark, and we therefore also opened a number of asylum centres when it was at its highest. And when it was at its very highest, there were actually 98 asylum centres located in more than 40 municipalities. The government has among other things: on the basis of what we saw in the second half of 2015, a large number of restrictions were made in the field of foreigners, well supported by the Danish People's Party. And the austerity measures, together with a joint European effort, have contributed to the fact that we now have control of the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark. For Aabenraa Municipality, this means in concrete terms that the municipality has gone from searching 132 refugees in 2015 to 4 refugees in 2017. I think this is a significant difference, and it is also a difference that can be felt in all municipalities in Denmark. This is a development that we can be very pleased with, but I fully recognise that there were huge and unforeseen costs associated with both accommodation, staff and catering during the period referred to. Due to the exceptional nature of the situation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration contacted the National Association of Municipalities on 28 September 2015 and the request describes the responsibilities between state authorities and municipalities. In connection with the request to the Municipal Council of the Landsforening, the Danish Emergency Agency stated that the municipal rescue service must be able to receive, accommodate and also care, e.g.: evacuated and other distressed. In other words, according to the Emergency Act, the municipal rescue service must be dimensioned to be able to handle a task like the one we saw in 2015. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration is concerned, I can inform you that the Ministry does not have the budgetary authority to bear the cost of municipal preparedness. This does not, of course, change the fact that the refugee crisis imposed a high cost on border municipalities in particular, including the City of Aabenraa, and we fully recognise this from the government. And that is also why we have carried out the tightening together in order precisely to avoid once again getting into a situation like the one we were in in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132735	Yes, we have implemented austerity and done many good things in the field of foreigners, because we wanted to bring the influx down. But it does not change the fact that there was a completely wild situation back in 2015, when Denmark, at least in the border areas, stalled. So physically stopped, you couldn't move, the roads were closed, the highways were closed, the trains weren't running. At one point, the airport was also shut down. I do not believe that it is the municipality of Aabenraa or other border municipalities' fault that the Danish immigration policy has sailed for some periods and has not been in control of the situation. I do not think you should pay for this and take money out of your own pocket, which could otherwise have gone to municipal core welfare. I simply think that is unfair, that is to say that you have ended up in that situation, partly because you are where you are. I do not think this can be the fault of the taxpayers in the municipality of Aabenraa, or of the people who should otherwise have benefited from municipal welfare benefits. I think it is deeply, deeply unreasonable. Then the Minister cannot see... or how am I going to ask this question: will the Minister not take the initiative to change this system, in other words to ensure that the municipalities that have put money out can somehow be compensated? I am not saying that it must necessarily be the Foreign Minister's resort. I just think it's so unfair that a municipality that actually worked with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this very difficult situation, it was found in a lot of municipalities that did so afterwards being parked with a bill. I think that is deeply unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132908	Well, there's like two parts of this. There is the part that is about when you have an asylum centre, and that is one part of it. The second part is the reaction element itself, and that is actually what we are discussing here. I understand that the municipality of Aabenraa has demanded that the police finance and thus cover the expenses incurred by the municipality in connection with the accommodation and also the catering at the time when this very large flow of refugees was seen. And I always think that is a bit of a bad thing, but I have to refer it to the Minister for Justice, because it is with him. It's the police you've made this demand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128132957	I don't know where the claim is to be made. I don't think it's the police who have to pay for this. But I also do not think that it is a municipality which cannot control the policy of foreigners, and which is just where it is now located right on the border and is Denmark's first outpost, one can say, and is hit by this completely crazy situation back in 2015 that has to be walleted out. But let me ask the Minister another question. Because I have heard all sorts on the left say that immigration from the Middle East and Africa is simply something where we are just lucky, that is, if only we could get some more of it, because there would be economic reasoning in it. Could you not send the bill to the Friends and all those who have done everything they could to increase immigration to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133043	Well, I'm not quite sure that the Friends and the rest of the left will in this way finance the expense that Aabenraa Municipality had in its time. Having said that, I actually agree that communication about these things means a lot. And it is clear that when the whole left-wing party in Denmark has done everything in this way, I think both to conduct a lax policy, but also to communicate that one wants a very lax immigration policy. And that is also why I am so pleased with the cooperation we have with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133120	Last round to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133122	This is so funny with the left wing every once in a while: you can say that you want to be neighborly and accept with open arms just until it costs you something. Then suddenly it's quite a different matter. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: is it conceivable that the Minister will bear this in any way, that is to say, the problem which hit the municipality of Aabenraa, further in the government? I mean, by saying that you have to come up with another solution if this is what I hope you won't ever happen again. In my opinion, it is certainly not right that we should end up in such a situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133158	In fact, I can understand the concern and the challenge facing the border municipalities in particular during that period. Because it wasn't easy. In other words, it was not easy for anyone and certainly not for the border municipalities involved. But as I said, this part is something that lies in emergency legislation. And if that is to change, it is like the way through which you have to go, and you can also have a discussion with the Danish People's Party about that, what do I know? But at least that is where it needs to be changed, and so it is not really something that I, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, can go in and change as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133238	With that, we thank Mr. Peter Kofod. We are keeping the Minister on the line, as the next question is for the same minister, namely the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. And that's by Mr. Hawkins. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133254	Thank you. What does the Minister think about Danes being better protected by EU law than by Denmark in the case of expelled children, where Danish families may for a time reside in another EU country in order to have access to live together in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133311	The question goes back, it can be said, whether the government will change the integration requirement, but now just on the basis of another premise, namely that Danes have to live in another EU country in order to have access to live in Denmark with their families. I have already explained why the government does not intend to abolish the integration requirement. As you know, the rules on free movement are binding on Denmark, and the right to free movement is enshrined in the Treaty and is regulated in the Residence Directive. As you know, Denmark cannot unilaterally amend or repeal either the Treaty or the Directive. I therefore believe that this is a wrong premise which the author of the question puts forward. The rules of the Aliens Act apply as a starting point for all foreigners. Freedom of movement is for citizens of the Union who wish to benefit from freedom of movement. The rules apply in the situation that is called primary freedom of movement, for example. a citizen of the Union from Germany has travelled to Denmark as an employed person. In that case, the German's family members will have to come with us to Denmark. The Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled that the same rules apply mutatis mutandis to the situation of secondary freedom of movement in which, after exercising freedom of movement, a citizen of the Union returns to his own Member State. In this situation, the Dane's family members must follow Denmark. This access to family reunification is not unconditional. There is a requirement that the Dane should have used free movement in another Member State such as Denmark. This means that the Dane must have had a real and actual residence in the other Member State. It is also a requirement that the Dane and the family member have had a real relationship in the Member State in which the Dane has exercised the right of free movement and that the family member has stayed there during the same period. It is therefore a consequence of the rules on free movement that family members must keep up with a citizen of the Union, including the returned Dane. The fact is that you may have different views on this, but this does not give the government the opportunity to change the Danish rules on integration assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133603	Thank you, Minister. After all, there will be plenty of time to reply again and again, because the questioner is now being given the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133610	Both the Minister and I are very concerned about this, which is why we can use our speaking time to the full. We are just in the very absurd situation, I think, that Danish citizens are actually disadvantaged in relation to having their families in Denmark, than for example. EU citizens and refugees are, at least in some cases. I'm here with some of those articles, B.T. brought on Monday, where B.T. has spoken to two Danes, namely Kjeld Gaard-Frederiksen and Heini Bøgelund Andersen. Now I just want to read a quote from Kjeld Gaard-Frederiksen: I think that as a Danish citizen I should have the best rights and should not be worse off than others. I feel it is unfair that I am discriminated against in relation to an EU citizen. I feel it is offensive that I should have more difficult conditions to live with my foreign family in Denmark than an EU citizen who comes to Denmark. I understand that you may have the feeling that it is strange that you are not allowed to live in Denmark with your family, but if you move from Flensburg to Denmark, you can do so. Therefore, there are many Danes who move to Flensburg or Malmö or a city in a third EU country and live there for a period of time and then move home. So I cannot help thinking: why could we not equate Danish citizens with EU citizens and grant them the same rights? Because if you get in anyway by doing what I think B.T. Called Flensburg Fint and, as a former football judge, I can say that it is not a trick I have heard about before, so if you can get in anyway by making the jumble of moving via another EU country, why can we not equate Danish citizens with EU citizens and then also make the demands that the minister is going through? Because it is not just a blank cheque with freedom of movement. There are also demands there. Shouldn't we be doing that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133811	I will try to make it shorter now, and then I can probably make up for the extra time I spent in the first round, when I just explained the rules and said that we cannot just leave the Treaty or the directive. And if some people are usually in favour of the European Union, then it is the Radical Left, and thus Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133832	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133833	I am not interested in us leaving the Treaty; I am interested in Danish citizens being able to enjoy the same rights as EU citizens and being allowed to have their family here, and there must, of course, be requirements that when families come here, they must behave properly and integrate. What do the Minister and the Government think of foreigners as being better off than Danish citizens in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128133902	Well, as I said in my introduction, I believe that this is a completely biased comparison, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg is doing here because these are two very different things we are talking about. And yes, we disagree on foreign policy, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and we are on many fronts. I disagree with the vast majority of the 45 concessions made by the then government and with the very, very relaxed immigration policy that was pursued. But there is no point in trying to mix apples and pears and then just grab hold of some EU directive and say: could you then not just... Andreas Steenberg. So, sir. Andreas Steenberg will have to say as it is, that Mr. Andreas Steenberg disagrees with the foreign law we have in Denmark, and I think that Mr. Andreas Steenberg is and also stands by that he is. But making this crooked comparison doesn't actually seem to me to serve a very good purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134009	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg for the last lap.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134010	I can confirm that we disagree that is quite right. But I do not think that the comparison is biased, because for these people it is the reality that moving to Flensburg for a period of time can suddenly be allowed. And it's also a little interesting that Germany in this case would like to let Danes live in Germany with their family while Denmark doesn't want to. So for them, it's a very real comparison. We may not get any closer, but it is sad that Danes have to flee to other countries in order to be able to be with their family and subsequently to be able to be with their family in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134052-2	I have to say that I think it is very, very wrong to use the word escape. I'll tell you what. Fleeing is something you do from war and strife. Having said that, these are families, and I think we all agree on that in a sad situation. There's no one who can't understand these families. If only they had brought their children to Denmark from Denmark, for example. Thailand from the beginning, we would never have faced these problems, and that is why, among other things, we should have. will do more to guide, for the problem is that you left the child in, for example. Thailand for 3, 5 or 7 years before bringing the child here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134137	With that, we thank Mr. Andreas Steenberg. We are still keeping away from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, for now it is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, who wants to read his question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134152	Thank you. The question is as follows: by signing the UN Migration Pact, countries undertake not to support media that promote intolerance, xenophobia and racism, and how will the government, if so, live up to this part, when it wants to sign the Pact?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134211	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134212	Objective 17 of the agreement contains a political commitment that States will work to eliminate and counter all forms of discrimination, violence or xenophobia against migrants in accordance with international human rights. On the other hand, there is nothing in the agreement that obliges countries not to support media that promote certain points of view. On the contrary, it is clear from the agreement that states must protect freedom of expression precisely in accordance with international law, recognising that an open and free debate contributes to a complete understanding of all aspects of migration. It is true that in that part of the agreement, which is not politically binding or indeed not legally binding, states can say, but this is mentioned in the agreement merely as an example of measures that countries can consider using. So this is not a political commitment, but something that countries can consider doing while respecting the freedom of the media. I would like to stress that it was the very clear attitude of the government, of course, that the freedom of the media must be guaranteed, including in the field of foreigners. In fact, I believe that a free and open debate is one of the very best ways to have a proper and enlightened debate at all, and that is precisely what must be governing when it comes to the Danish press. What must apply is, of course, whether the voices remain within the law that we have when it comes to utterances. So I can only repeat that it is my attitude and that of the government that the freedom of the press and of expression of the media must, of course, be guaranteed, which is also laid down in this agreement, and that the text of the agreement states precisely that the States undertake to protect freedom of expression in accordance with international law and recognise that a free and open debate contributes to a better debate and a better understanding of all aspects when it comes to migration, including the negative ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134500	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134502	I think that is a thin answer. I would also like to ask: who knows what else they are committed to and are not committed to in this agreement? The government says that there is no commitment to anything, while the government says that the countries that have to take their citizens back are obliged to take their citizens back. That means it's kind of double, isn't it? What exactly is the commitment made in this agreement? In any case, I would like to say that there is a moral commitment to respect this agreement, which we agree with and sign. That's where I see a problem. And this passage says, as part of it, that you should not support media that promote intolerance. What, then, is intolerance? Well, I'd like the government to take a more substantive view of what is actually in this UN Migration Pact, because I don't think the government does. It is said, on the one hand, that it is not legally binding and, on the other hand, that it is evidently binding in relation to certain countries that you would like to have to do something specific. Both can't be right. I just think it's sad that we've gotten into this lead where you decide to sign a migration pact that goes against the policy we're trying to pursue in Denmark, including addresses that the media have to play on that cart. I just think it's bad; I think it's bad. If I had the idea that I would like to overthrow the government on this issue, then there would be a new government with Mette Frederiksen, who would say exactly the same thing and sign this. I just think it is time for us to start confronting the problems that are, with this parallel world of UN resolutions and pacts and all sorts of other things that go against the reality that exists in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134707	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134708	In any case, I would say that this is why it is essential that we also contribute our explanation of vote, that is to say what we attach importance to in this agreement, and we shall do so. I can say that is one of the things we are writing on at the moment. Having said that, I would like to stress once again that if anyone is in favour of freedom of expression, I do not think anyone can be in doubt about that either. And if anyone, I am also in favour of a free and open debate. I'm using it myself. In fact, quite frankly, I believe that our foreign policy in Denmark and the political climate in Denmark are healthy in that we have just always been able to discuss this openly and freely perhaps not always, but at least over the last few years we must continue to do so. And we're gonna keep doing that. So that doesn't change this in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134808	No, but what is my approach to this is that I know that changing governments have signed everything that came from the United Nations for decades because it has been such a parallel world. Now, in fact, we are simply faced with a UN pact that goes against the policy that we want to pursue and which also benefits Europe, namely to stop the immigration into Europe which has been overwhelming and which we cannot deal with. At the same time as we are discussing this, there will be a UN pact which does not relate at all to the problem and which even starts to make such pathetic, stupid calls for us not to support media, so to speak, which could express something critical of intolerance and everything else, that is, xenophobia and the whole discussion that we have had in Denmark. We've had that discussion, which is why I just think it's time to say no to this circus.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128134907	But that is also why our explanation of vote is so crucial, and that is also why it is crucial that we now get it written so clearly that it is not such a bloomy talk, but that we can understand precisely what we are now putting the emphasis on in this agreement. After all, this agreement is also about African countries having to take their citizens back if they are illegal migrants. And I think it is really good that we get them to confirm that. This is actually the first time you have them put the pen to paper on it. However, there is no doubt whatsoever that I support both freedom of expression and, therefore, a free and open debate, including in the field of foreigners. And that is how it should continue to be, and I think we have a healthy political culture about that in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135001	The final question to Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135003	My question is as follows: if it is the case that the Minister and the government believe that an undertaking has now been given by the African countries to withdraw their citizens, what is the commitment made by Denmark by signing this declaration? After all, the undertaking has to turn both ways, and that is a commitment not to support media that promote intolerance, etc. In other words, it must be mutual, that is to say, that what one party commits itself to, the other party also commits itself to. Otherwise everything will stop, and that is why I think the argument is quite bad. I think that the argument is bad, Minister, and I do not understand why it is signed. I know that if this government doesn't sign, there will be another government that will. 'Cause we're the only party in the Folketing that's gonna have a problem with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135107	But that doesn't change the fact that, among other things, we... It is also important that we continue to have a free and open debate in Denmark. We are well-known for this and I believe that this is a very important basis for the political debate in Denmark. And I am actually proud that, in recent years at least, we have been able to have a free and open and critical debate, including when it comes to foreign policy. Because we have done so, and of course we should not give in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135141	With that, we thank both the Minister and the questioner. Then we change out on the benches and the square, and the question is for the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, and the questioner is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135156	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen now has the floor for the reading of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135200	Thank you very much, sir. President. The question is: if the government's conversion is nothing more than hot air, does the Minister support the establishment of offshore wind turbines between Frederikshavn and Hirsholmene?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135212	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135214	Thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen for the question. First of all, I would like to make it clear that this government is entirely behind the green transition and that it is one of the most important priorities in the years ahead. At the same time, I would also like to stress very clearly that I fully understand the frustrations created by coastal offshore wind turbines in Denmark. I believe that offshore wind turbines generally belong far out at sea. I fear that the construction of several coastal mills can lead to general popular opposition to wind turbines. At worst, that resistance could be a threat to the green transition. We have to take this seriously. Therefore, together with you and the rest of the Danish Parliament, we introduced the municipal right of objection so that we can be sure that there is local support for coastal projects such as. Frederikshavn knows. This means that a municipality may object to the construction of offshore wind turbines set up within 8 km of the coast and after summer 2019 within 15 km of the coast. I am currently awaiting the response of the municipality of Frederikshavn in the specific case. If they do not exercise their right to object, I expect to approve the preliminary examination application as the application complies with all other requirements. So to reply briefly: I support the project if the municipality does not object.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135332	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135334	Thank you for answering the question. I am glad to hear that there is no doubt that the government will otherwise have had enough doubts about that lately, among other things. on the basis of the Climate Council report, etc. But what is the Minister saying here? Does he have a frustration that you can make coastal mills and that they have to go to sea? Is it just that there is one person who says that you are very sorry to look at some mills from the beach, enough to say that the minister will say that we will drop it because he is afraid that the popular opposition to a few coastal mills can cause the whole load to tip? That is why it is very important to say exactly what the Minister is going to emphasise. The Minister has probably followed, as I have done, that there have been a number of meetings in Frederikshavn, where citizens have had the opportunity to object. There is a deadline until you can make these comments, and the municipality has then said that they will deal with it at their December meeting, and then the objections come to the Minister's knowledge. That's what the procedure is. But it is not enough to say that we support the green transition. What I am interested in, and which I ask specifically, are the mills that are being thought of up here, because the Minister has skilfully avoided this, even though he has written several letters about it. So precisely: does the Minister support the mills proposed? It's an old case where you go on with an old permit and so on. So it's very important to know. Is it not true that it is the Minister who ultimately has to say 'yes' or 'no' to whether this project can be done? It is not a parliamentary majority, it is not the Energy Committee, it is not the municipality of Frederikshavn. Isn't that the minister in the end? That is why I think it is relevant that I ask here and try to get an answer from the Minister as to whether he is so interested in the mills that he will make sure that they come up or whether he has already decided that as long as there is one complaint, it will not happen. What is the Minister's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135549	I can reply very briefly to that: I support the project if it is that the municipality does not object. It is the municipality that has the opportunity to object. It is also true what the questioner says, that if the municipality objects, it must be submitted to the Parliament's Energy, Supply and Climate Committee, and after it has been over there and they have assessed the project, it is ultimately the Minister who has to make a final decision if and if there is a municipal objection. For me, it is absolutely crucial that there is support for the green transition, and it is also crucial that the municipalities are aware that they have an opposition right for the current up to 8 km, and I can only call on the municipalities to take this seriously and to consider these projects. And if it turns out that there is local support behind the project and the municipality does not use the right to object, then the project will be approved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135639	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135640	Thank you. But now it is very important, and I assume that in a democracy you can have a dialogue on some things, and the Minister can also see that you have already been out saying that it does not have to be six mills. You can remove one, so there are five left, and there may be different conditions where you change the layout, so all parties still think it might be a good idea. So it is therefore in relation to an objection and an opportunity to express an interesting opinion. If Frederikshavn City Council deals with this matter and they give an answer to the Minister, then I suppose it is also crucial what they are saying and I should not interfere with what they say and, if so, how it can affect the Minister's position on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135727	Thank you. I will listen to the municipality of Frederikshavn, which means that if the municipality of Frederikshavn comes and says that they think it is a really good idea that they have this project directed together with the company in question, who wants and plans to implement these offshore wind turbines, then I will back the project up. But this also presupposes that the considerations are considered locally, and if there is a blank recommendation from the municipality of Frederikshavn, the project will also be approved after consultation with the Danish Parliament's Energy, Supply and Climate Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135759	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135800	One can hardly imagine that there will be a blank page where they say: that is what we meant nothing. I think, as I can read from the newspaper reports, that there are both people who think that wind turbines, whether on land or at sea, are a bad thing and that there are also people who really want wind turbines. So I do not think the Minister's desire to have a blank page will be true, and that is why it is likely that there will be a yes, as I imagine the scenario of some things that the Minister must deal with. Does this mean that if it just says that you have to change things a little, then the minister will draw the map and say it doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135847	Thank you again. I'm gonna listen to the council. It is, after all, the municipal council in the way we have built our democracy. Then it is clear that if a single citizen objects, it is the attitude of the municipal council to which I shall refer. And it is, of course, a question of whether they are using the municipal right of objection. If they do not make use of it, then the project can be carried out if it otherwise meets the different EIAs etc. And that's all there is to this project.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135917	With that, we thank both the Minister and the honourable Member on this question. But that wasn't enough for sir. Bjarne Laustsen, so there is another question for the same minister from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135931	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: what active action has the Minister, the Minister's officials and fellow members from the Left taken to sow doubts and indirectly call for objections to the construction of offshore wind turbines, which the Minister can lean on, and then in the next round tell us how green the government is?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128135949	Thank you for the question. It is important to respect the resistance to coastal offshore wind turbines that we meet around Denmark. I am concerned that the opposition will go beyond the public's support for the green transition. It is important for the government that renewable energy expansion takes place with the support of the municipality, not least when it comes to coastal winds. I assume that the question refers to the letter I sent to the municipality of Frederikshavn on 11 October, in which I informed the municipality of their right to object. I considered it appropriate to draw the attention of the municipality to the application received, as the Ministry had heard nothing else from the municipality but two lines on environmental engineering requirements. Once again, when I heard nothing from the municipality, my special advisor spoke to a local council member to question what is up and down the case. My officials have been in dialogue with officials in the municipality with a view to agreeing deadlines and making them aware of the process. As we could understand that the first deadline was too tight for the municipality, we provided for an extension until 17 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140112	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140113	Thank you. And thank you for your answer. There's a lot of things I don't understand in this case. Does the Minister have a special adviser contacting a particular council member in a municipality to draw their attention to how the municipalities should be managed and how decisions should be taken? I'm simply speechless. I know that, as the Minister has also explained here, two letters have been sent, and if you do not hear anything, you think: we should get to grips with other means. It simply cannot be that they will not protest. You have to do that and you can have the time limit extended. It is very, very important that there should be such statements, because then the Minister can say: well, people don't want those mills, and then we don't have to have them, and therefore we cannot meet the demands we make ourselves for us to have a green conversion. I think it's a remarkable way. Therefore, in relation to the special adviser, if that is what you are using a special adviser for, that is to say to call a named municipal councillor, I think that if you are going to turn to the municipality, it must be the mayor to whom the special adviser calls if you do not have time to call. Because what is it you want to call a certain councilman? What is it that is to be achieved? Of course, I would also like to hear, and I ask directly: have any of the officials called journalists, certain editorial services? Have any of the Left's private members called on behalf of the Minister and I will not use words that are not nice so the Minister has pushed on that path to get the local press or others to take an interest in this issue in order to whip up a mood? Because that's what I see coming out of it. I don't know, but I'm sure the minister knows what's written and what's been done by conversations, etc. So I think it's important in this picture to know if you're playing on two horses, so on one side you tell how green you are, and on the other side you tell: you just have to do that, and then we're gonna stop those mills getting up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140332	I had no word from the municipality of Frederikshavn. A few comments had been made to the Ministry, a few lines on some technical challenges in relation to the project. For me it was very important that the municipality was aware that there was an opportunity to object. And on that basis, it was also natural that my special advisor was in contact with the Left's hinterland, including members of the municipal council. I think that is only natural, so that members of the municipal council are contacted to ask: how has the process been carried out in connection with these coastal wind turbines? Have you heard of it? Are you aware that there is an opportunity to object to this project? It is absolutely crucial for the government and for me that there is popular support for these projects. I am experiencing a number of places in the country, quite topically at Lillebælt and on the west coast of Jutland, how some of these projects give enormous popular resistance and how it actually has serious consequences in terms of public support for the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140436	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140437	But that's snitch talk. Well, I'm gonna ask you in cash. Now it is said that it is the special adviser who has so equally chosen the backland of the Left, and all respect for the backland of the Left and members of the municipal council in Frederikshavn. But I'm just asking why they didn't go straight to the mayor and ask why they haven't written and why they haven't done yours and that. After all, there is a pattern, and can the Minister deny that officials have also contacted local pressmen to ask about this matter, and can he deny that also local private members of the Left Parliamentary Group have similarly sent things to editorial staffs that they should be aware of this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140524	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140525	Thank you. I wrote to the mayor, that's correct. My special advisor contacted members of the Left City Council in Frederikshavn, which is also correct. And my officials in the Ministry have only discussed some technical things about the application that has been made and have not thus communicated contact. It is possible that my special advisor has been in contact with local media, I will not deny that. After all, my special advisor is in constant contact with social media, newspapers, newspapers, etc. And with regard to the members of the Left in general, candidates for parliament and others, fortunately we live in a democracy and how they act, I cannot take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140609	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140610	Finally, I would like to ask the Minister when, in the North Jutland media, I see what the Minister thinks. Does he really mean something about the green switch? Does he mean something about the mills, too? For so far he has skilfully avoided reporting, even though he has been asked. What does the minister think, should those mills up, yes or no? And is it not the intention of the Minister to argue in this way as to why the green transition is important? If everyone says no to mills and says they have to stand somewhere else, then there will be no mills. That's why. You can't have both, that is to say, both wanted the mills and then didn't want them anyway. But I would very much like to admit that it is a clever scam that the Minister has gotten by flogging up a mood so that he can say on that basis: well, we would like to, but the people do not want to. If that is the purpose, I think the Minister owes us a very good explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140701	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140703	Thank you. Well, those mills will come up if there's local support. In fact, I intend to do so, and for me it is very, very important that there is local support and also that you do not come here afterwards and say: well, we were not aware that we actually had the opportunity to object. I think it is important that both the municipal council and the citizens of Frederikshavn are aware that there is indeed an opportunity for the municipal council to object to this project. If the municipal council does not object, the project will be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140737	With that, we thank Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, who is then replaced by Mr. Jens Joel from the same party, and it's for the same minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140745	Here you go for a reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140746	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister agree that it is at odds with the truth to claim that no government has ever been so ambitious on behalf of the climate when the government's own climate advisor, the Climate Council, has just shown that government policy leads to an alarming slowdown in Denmark's climate action?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140806	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128140808	First of all, thank you for the question. With the 2018 Energy Agreement, our electricity generation will be 100% based on renewable energy by 2030, and heat production will go in the same direction. So fossil fuels will hardly be used in the electricity and heat energy sector by 2030. When there are hardly any fossil fuels left in the energy sector, we cannot reduce much more in that sector. That's logic. It is therefore not meaningful to accuse the government of a lack of ambition on that basis; it is merely a frivolous political legholdge. But it gets even worse. The government has published a climate and air project that addresses the sectors that the opposition has never done anything about in earnest: transport and agriculture. It may be that the lack of action has led to a lack of knowledge in the two areas of the opposition, because there is evidently a perception that because putting biomass into coal power plants by 2020 will result in significant reductions in the transport sector and agriculture, which will result in rapid and very large reductions. That is not the case. The playing field for the next phase of the climate transition is a completely different one. The green technologies in transport and agriculture are not yet ripe, or they are quite expensive. But the government is taking up the challenge. The Government's goal of stopping sales of petrol and diesel cars from 2030 means that the emissions of passenger cars will disappear completely in the long term. Similarly, the research effort in agriculture will eventually lead to reductions here. I know there's gonna be elections soon, but the climate isn't gonna wait until the opposition makes this little media stunt. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141004	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141005	Thank you. Then the minister woke up to do it. It is, in fact, positive in many ways. If the climate gets something out of it too, many of us are happy. Now I have not actually started a controversy about what is politically right in this context. I started a controversy, and the Minister and I were also on TV 2 News on Friday and discussing it. And there said something when I pointed out that in this report the Climate Council shows that we are getting a slower reduction in CO2 the student also asked about it, and then the minister said that I do not recognise it. It is, after all, a place where it is no longer a question of politics, but where it is a question of ascertaining the credibility of an independent body, namely the Climate Council. And I also saw that the Minister was quoted at Ritzau and elsewhere on Friday to say about the latest recommendation from the independent experts from the Climate Council that their conclusions were bewildered. In fact, with all due respect, I think it is the Minister who is trying to politicise, not to the opposition, but he is trying to attack the independent experts in the Climate Council, who are doing a serious job both to look at the rulers in the cards, but also to indicate a way to actually achieve our climate ambitions. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether he disputes, as he did on national television, the calculations from the Climate Council, which in parentheses are based on the government's own figures. So that's the first thing. Will the Minister deny the accuracy of the calculations? The second is how the Minister will defend going out and attacking independent experts by calling their conclusions bewildered. Does it suit the political debate and does it help the climate debate forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141203	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141204	I do not doubt that the calculations can be right enough, but where I go into the discussion is when some people claim that it is being turned down, compared to what has happened in the period from 2010 to 2020, and then what happens in the period from 2020 to 2030. This also applies when I go in and look at what is actually happening with reductions. So it can be said that the old energy agreement from 2012 until 2020 resulted in a reduction in CO2 tonnes. So does the new energy agreement. It represents approximately the same magnitude, i.e. between 10-11 million. In addition, what is the result of the government's climate change initiative, which reduces emissions by up to 32 million, must be added. a. As far as I am concerned, this is a much greater reduction in the period from 2020 to 2030 than it is in relation to the energy agreement implemented in 2012 covering the period up to 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141304	Thank you, that is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141306	What the Minister is doing now is not what the Minister did this weekend, so he is attacking the calculations, but he still seems to think that the government is pursuing an ambitious policy. Now I would like to say that the Minister is allowed to have his own policy, but is just not allowed to have his own facts in this discussion. That is why there is something to be done about discussing whether to go out and shoot at the independent experts who are actually trying to tell the truth about government policy or whether to take note of it and then discuss what political action you want. In this respect, it is striking that the Minister sends out a press release saying that there is too much mud throwing and polemic when the Minister himself attacks independent experts. Is it good and decent for the climate debate, and is it worthy of a minister to attack the Climate Council on its professional integrity rather than discuss the policy that is targeted?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141407	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141408	Thank you. What I am dealing with is that when the Climate Council says that the level of ambition is being turned down. I would just like to say that I do not recognise that, and the criticism I have made from the Climate Council is the question of whether the level of ambition has been turned down or whether the level of ambition has not been turned down. And there I can just say that both with the energy agreement and subsequently with the initiative of the government on climate change, there has been a marked increase in the level of ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141435	Then there is a small variation in it, as we have the opportunity to have an enquirer. It is Mrs Lea Wermelin who is the co-author of the same question to the same minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141443	Thank you. I brought two newspaper articles here today. One is from CNN, where Donald Trump is quoted in relation to the recent climate report, and he says that I do not believe it. And the other is our Danish climate minister, who says that it is gibberish to claim that the government is slowing down the pace of the green transition. In other words, there is a fundamental problem in the fact that we have a minister who does not recognise the work of an independent Climate Council. Can the Minister not understand that it is problematic that the Minister is involved in politicising the conclusions of the Climate Council? It is clear that there may well be political disagreements about what needs to be done, but the approach taken by the Minister helps to cast doubt on the whole factual basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141544	I did not quite understand the comparison compared to the report that has been made in the United States. The report in the United States is, of course, primarily about the fact that Members of Parliament over there have asked for an investigation into what the consequences will be if nothing is done in the United States. I would then say that there is a vertical disagreement with the President of the United States, and that is also why we have asked the European Commission to count on what the consequences will be if the European Union does not do anything. Then I would like to say to the question that I am listening to the Climate Council. I think there have been many good recommendations, but I also have the right to have a political assessment in relation to the recommendations that come from the Climate Council, and I also have the right to oppose the Climate Council if there are conclusions from the Climate Council that I do not agree with. And I do not agree with the Climate Council's statement that we have turned down the level of ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141635	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141636	Of course the Minister has the right to take a political stance, but what we are sorry about is that the Minister is helping to ascertain the credibility of the Climate Council, that is to say the experts who have been sitting and counting on it here. You will also be wondering when it is the case that we have a chairman of the Climate Council who is presenting a report in which there are some very critical conclusions on government policy and soon after that the President no longer has a job. Can the Minister not understand that the Minister is helping to cast doubt on independence in the future, for what about the future President? Should you be afraid of losing your presidency if you are critical of government policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141724	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141724-2	There must be a great deal of room for criticism of government policy. It is also one of the tasks for which the Climate Council is set in the world, i.e. constantly making assessments of the things and proposals that come from government and parliament. However, there must also be room for a vertical disagreement when I and the government are of the opinion that we would like to discuss some of the conclusions reached by the Climate Council, especially with regard to the level of ambition. With regard to the chairman of the Climate Council, I would like to say that the President-in-Office of the Council has done an excellent job. Some time ago, we assessed this and we considered that we want to see new eyes on it. The chairman of the Climate Council has been on the job for 4 years. The recruitment period expires on 1 December, and when it does so it is an obvious opportunity to assess whether new powers are needed in the post. And we have appointed a new professor, Peter Mølgaard, who has great insight into climate conditions. He is former professors at CBS, pro-rector at the University of Maastricht and has great insight into both energy and climate issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141833	Then we say thank you to Mrs Lea Wermelin and then we return to the main questioner, Mr Wermelin. Jens Joel, last question to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141839	I have to say that I am very concerned about what this is doing about independence and what it is doing about the discussion we have and about the opportunity that independent experts have to look for in the cards. However, since the Minister has also said that this is too important a debate for mud throwing, I would like to ask, in the end, precisely this press release from the Minister, which is called "Let us get the climate debate back on track." It senses that I'm targeting the Climate Council, and it says that it has to be done with mud throwing and polemics. Is it the Minister's view that the Climate Council is conducting mud-throwing and polemics?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141925	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141926	I believe that in some of the climate debate that has taken place recently, there has been a slight tendency towards mud throwing. In fact, I think the climate debate is too important for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141942	Then the question is exhausted. We move on to the next question, and it is to the same minister, and it is again from Mr Beazley. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141951	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128141952	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's comment that the government's own climate advisor, the Climate Council, warns against increasing the inclusion requirement proposed by the government because it will lead to increased consumption of biodiesel, which, compared to fossil diesel, often leads to just as high levels of emissions of greenhouse gases and in some cases higher levels of emissions of greenhouse gases?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142013	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142014	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel for the question. As a responsible government, we will ensure that we meet the EU's demand for 10%. renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020. The government sees no other possible way to achieve this objective than to increase the incorporation requirement for biofuels. By the way, I do not think that we have so much disagreement here with the Climate Council. They also emphasise that increased use of biofuels will be necessary in order to achieve the objective. On the other hand, I do not agree with the premise of the question being put here. The incorporation requirement is expected primarily to be met by increasing the incorporation of biofuels in petrol. This leads to increased consumption of first-generation bio-aetanol, which actually has some sensible climate effects compared to gasoline, also seen in a cradle-to-grave perspective, as the Climate Council also points out. On the other hand, the consumption of first generation biodiesel, which is often accused of having a questionable climate effect in a global perspective, is not expected to increase. Furthermore, the oil industry will be able to confirm that the incorporation requirement is not expected to lead to increased use of biodiesel. Furthermore, biofuels used in Denmark must meet the EU's sustainability requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142135	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142136	So let me do the ultra-card: will the government then impose a ban on it becoming biodiesel that gets mixed up in?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142145	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142146	At any rate, we will do everything we can to ensure that it will be first-generation bioaetanol, which does not, of course, have the serious consequences of biodiesel. We will work for that. Whether there is a need for legislation will have to be discussed in a different context, but that is clearly the objective we have. The discussions we have had with the oil industry are also about momentum in Denmark, i.e. how we deal with this challenge. There is a clear signal that the way in which we are going to achieve the goal will be through first-generation bioetanol.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142226	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142228	We can, of course, have a discussion on first and second generation bio-aetanol, and that is what we will do in the negotiating room as well. But I simply have to ask again because I am getting more confused: will the Minister ensure that it does not become biodiesel yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142250	I'll do what I can to make it bioethanol. I am not at present aware of what opportunities we have to demand that this is so precisely and that the whole amount is so, but it is my clear assessment that the majority of it will hopefully be, in any case, bioethanol. In addition, and the questioner knows this very well, I know that it must also meet the EU's sustainability requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142317	Then it's mr. Jens Joel for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142318	Okay, so we're in a situation where the government says there's no other possible way to live up to the target than to open up to this? However, the government has not given the consideration and homework to check whether one can actually get into a situation where we end up with the climate being worse off than if we had not done the goal. I have to say that I just don't understand why the government hasn't thought about it. And if the Minister does not know how to do that, then the Minister must at least be able to confirm here that, of course, we are not going to have a government that demands an objective that can in fact end up having a negative effect on the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142400	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142401	That objective must have a positive effect on the climate. That is the whole point of 10%. renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020. I am concerned that we are doing this in a way, so that we actually get some CO2 renewable energy in transport by 2020. After the discussions we have had with the industry, it is quite clear to me that what will be most at stake in this context will be bio-aetanol, which from a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142441	With that, we thank Mr. Jens Joel asking. It is still the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate who is being asked questions, and that is now by Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142453	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142454	I am reading the question: Will the Minister, on the basis of the alarming conclusions in the Climate Council's report, take the initiative for further initiatives in the climate field?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142509	Thank you to Mrs Lea Wermelin for her question. Let us be serious about what a common challenge we face. The energy sector is nothing less than revolutionised, and we are reducing CO2 With the energy agreement, our electricity generation will be one hundred percent based on renewable energy by 2030, and heat production is going in exactly the same direction. The next phase we are facing in climate action are those sectors that are harder to adapt, such as agriculture and transport. Everything else is equally easier to create reductions by switching the coals with biomass at a large power plant, but the government has taken up the glove compared to those sectors in a way that no previous government has done. The Government's goal of stopping the sale of new petrol and diesel cars from 2030 will mean that the challenge of passenger cars will disappear completely in the long term, but it will take time to replace an entire car park. We must be able to agree on that. Similarly, the government's initiated climate research efforts in agriculture lead in the long term to reductions. In the field of agriculture, we do not have a solution today that can be the same as the windmill can for the energy sector. We must also be able to agree on this. We are not yet in line with the climate action. The government's efforts do not stop with the energy agreement and climate and air play. We have put in firm stop checks for the climate action towards 2030, and we set aside additional funds for the climate action in the future. I hope that the other parties in the Folketing will recognise the difficult challenge we face and will help to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142649	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142651	We certainly recognise the challenge, and that is also why we are standing here today, because, as we have just discussed, the government's own reduced Climate Council has just failed the plan that the government has come up with: it does not mean that that is what my question was about, because one thing is what has then been put forward, but the problem is, of course, that the Climate Council says quite clearly that if we are to reach a target by 2030, further initiatives need to be on the table. That is why my question is actually about this: will the government put further initiatives on the table beyond the climate and air emissions that have come? Because that is not enough if we are to make sure that we are actually at the forefront of the green transition and ensure that we reduce our CO2 so does the Minister agree with the Climate Council that there is a need for further initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142751	In fact, I do not agree with the questioner that we are not achieving our goal. Now it is difficult to say exactly how large the gap is, but the assessment is currently based on the calculations that it is somewhere between 32 and 37 million. t in the period from 2020 to 2030. With the government's proposal, if we bring in the transport part, we will achieve a reduction of 32 million. t in 2030. There is uncertainty about some of the elements, and there is also uncertainty about how large the gap is. With the game, we're gonna solve this problem, two years before we're gonna do the job, and 12 years before we're gonna do the goal. Actually, I think that's quite good. However, it is also clear that more initiatives will be needed on an ongoing basis, and therefore there is also the government's climate initiative, that in 2022, 2024 and 2027 we will have to do what is called stop checks, how far we have come, how much the challenge is and whether further initiatives are needed. And if further initiatives are needed, we will not hold back from bringing them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142856	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142857	But now we're gonna have to get something straight. I am here with a page from the Climate Council report, and it is clear under the pillar of further action that this is needed if we are to achieve targets in relation to the need for reduction. The Climate Council itself writes that in their report. Before the Minister said that it did not disagree with the calculations underlying the Climate Council's report, does the Minister agree with the Climate Council on whether further initiatives are needed or does the Minister not agree with the Climate Council? And if further initiatives are needed, why can't we know what they're supposed to be? Why does it have to be some kind of drawer plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128142934	I do not agree with the Climate Council that we will not reach the target by 2030 with the proposal that lies from the government, depending on the size of the shortfall, of course, whether it is 32 or 37 million. t, when we reach 2030. We're gonna get to the finish of the stuff that's here. There is some uncertainty and it may prove that further initiatives are needed. And that is what is being given, because I have the expectation that we can easily find ourselves in a situation in which the objective set by the European Union for 2030 is, in other words, in the institutions currently in existence. It is also in the Council and in the European Parliament and in the Commission, etc. 2 data centres and others coming in, and hence of total energy consumption. There can be many challenges up until 2030. However, with the initiative of the government, we deliver on what we need to achieve in order to achieve the goal by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143030	Then it is the questioner for the last round of this question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143032	But now I have also read the Minister's proposal, that is, the climate and air plan. It is written in black and white that it contributes 26 million. This is a long way from the 32-37 million. T, of which the Minister speaks. That is because some objectives are included, that is to say something that the Minister hopes will be achieved. But can the Minister not confirm that the specific tools for achieving this have not been specified? That's the whole problem. That is also why the Minister's own Climate Council is dumping the Minister's efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143108	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143109	Thank you. If transport is counted, and it has to be, and what lies in relation to the phasing out of petrol and diesel cars, then we will reach 32 million. t in 2030. If it is not included and if we look at the other initiatives there are, then we will reach 26 million. a. But it is my very clear conviction that we are, of course, able to do something about transport. With the objectives set here, which are, of course, the most significant and far more ambitious than what we have seen from the author's party, in terms of the number of electric cars and low-emission cars by 2030, well then we reach this goal, and then it is a government that is far more ambitious than what we have seen from the Social Democrats. What we've come up with here is super-ambitious, and we've overtaken you with mile steps, compared to what you've played out with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143202	With that, we thank both the questioner and the Minister. Now we go further in the series of ministers, namely the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143215	It's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143216	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the fact that the government is helping to support a development in which there are increasing numbers of pesticides in our food?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143231	Thank you for the question. There is not an increasing number of pesticides in our food. This is certainly not a development that the government would support if that were the case. Where pesticides are authorised for new crops, a maximum residue limit for the pesticide in that crop shall be established in the Union. This is done to protect consumers. It's nothing new, and it's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143302	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143303	The reason we are asking here is not the annual food control. These are two committee cases which the Danish Parliament's parties had to deal with last week. We had actually submitted a far longer question where it could be a hundred per cent precisely for the Minister what we referred to. It has then been reduced to this short question, and I do not think that is fair to the Minister. For what we could see in the two committee cases was that there were some maximum values that were raised, and the parties of the Folketing had to consider whether we were in favour of raising the maximum values. I think it is deeply worrying when you look at the fact that there are a large number of basic foods where there is now the prospect, when it is adopted in the EU, of raising the maximum limits. Then we will see that food control must check for pesticides, and then it is a higher figure that is measured than it has been so far. If the government of the European Union supports this development, then it supports the fact that there are higher limit values, and I certainly do not think this is appropriate, especially when we see that these foods are potatoes and strawberries, beets, a lot of fresh fruit, root fruit, dried leguminous vegetables, grapes, various nuts, citrus fruits, various cereals, rice and a number of seeds. In other words, it is basic food in which it is actually opened up that there may be a higher pesticide content. It is, of course, a pity if the Minister has prepared himself on the basis that I referred to the food control and the report and what it is working on. However, it is from the two committee cases that we were presented last week and where there is a so-called democratic process, which is very succinct, where parties have the opportunity to object. The Enhedslisten did, and it was supported by a few other parties. But there is really too little time for debate, and that is why I am raising it here. Is the Minister aware that the limit values were raised in the two committee cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143508	That is also the question I answered; I understood the question. However, I am not sure that the questioner understands the problem, and so allow me to explain it. That's how you use these limit values, and if you have a crop that doesn't use the product in question, you set the limit value for the limit of detection. Because if you are not allowed to use the active substance in question on this crop, there must of course be no residues at all. If you then find that it may be appropriate to apply this or that pesticide to a particular crop, for example. Because it can remove a more harmful pesticide, a more risky pesticide, one goes in and says: where do we set the tolerance threshold for this? It is clear that what matters above all here is: what constitutes the active substance of health risks? For that must never be lost. But you also go in and look at: If you use this active substance with generally good farming practice, what can we demand if you do not spend too much and do not spend too little? These are the two parameters that determine this limit. But it is clear that if the starting point was that there must be nothing at all, then the limit value will of course be set up. So the world is a little more complicated than Enhedslisten sees it, too here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143644	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143646	The world can be very complicated and I have also noted that in these cases it has been decided that the DTU Food Institute should have been asked for an assessment of the proposal. They then come up with an estimate of it, and when I see such words, I get a little worried. Because what we're dealing with here is something where there's a lot of assessments inside it, and does that estimate have a basis on what a normal dancer eats? And what do we do if there are some Danes who eat relatively many oranges or drink relatively much conventional red wine? Then we are in a situation where we cannot just say that there is an average that is, like, applicable to everyone. That is what worries us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143735	I understand that, and it is a legitimate concern to have. We have a very restrictive approach to the use of pesticides in Denmark, and we must also have it, it is part of the pesticide agreement that Enhedslisten has chosen not to be a part of. We have a restrictive approach to this, and when we approve new pesticides, the starting point is not that you can risk getting close to a little bit of it. After all, we are looking at what risks it is really possible to run into the product in question, comparing it with generally sound farming practice, and then we say: what is reasonable here? People should not be exposed to a risk in relation to these pesticides. That is why the limit values are set where they are set. Another challenge is the combination options or cocktail effects that may be that we are also trying to look at to the best of our ability. I see that the President is standing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143835	Thank you. Then it's the questioner for the last round of this question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143838	The unitary list is not included in the pesticide agreement because it meant that the amount of pesticides that can be used for drinking water could be increased by sixfold. That's why we weren't there. If you are prepared to change that to the previous situation, then we would like to have a discussion on it. I am worried when we have such committee cases and then it says: adoption is estimated to mean an unchanged level of protection. Well, we're into something that isn't exact science and where we don't know what these cocktail effects bring. We do not know for sure what it is, and people are not equally exposed to the poison they consume, and some children and pregnant women are thus exposed with a greater risk. I think that the Minister should take this much more seriously and that it should be more restrictive in the cases before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128143932	I can reassure the questioner that I take this very seriously, in fact so seriously, that I have taken into account the way in which this approval process is going on, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen didn't know or didn't know, but just wanted to convince people something else. We have our chemistry effort throwing a lot of effort into research and development when it comes to these combination effects, because the combination possibilities are endless. So we need to do research to ensure that we address those risks in the best possible way. However, if one's starting point is that pesticides must not be used, and in this context I can mention an excellent pesticide called salt, which I sometimes use on my egg in the morning, then it is clear that we will probably not agree. Then it's probably very good that you're not part of the pesticide deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144025	We therefore thank the honourable Member and the Minister and note that Question Time is over for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144039	We are opening the debate, and the first is Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144101	Thank you for that, President. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that housing without a residence obligation is an unfortunate trend which is spreading as new residential areas are built. You don't get cpr numbers on the addresses. In some cases local plans have been made where they have not been required. Since previous times, residential areas have been built at a time when a municipality, for example the City of Copenhagen, was not in such a favourable economic position as the municipality is today, but had to offer investors housing without a residence obligation in order to actually build something. After all, decisions must be judged on the basis of the time in which they have been taken and it would be wrong to judge Copenhagen's urban development in the 1990s and 00s on the basis of the situation today, but all the more so we welcome this bill, which allows much more stringent controls to be made on housing without the obligation of residence and ensures that the legislation that actually exists is complied with and that the sanctions that exist are tightened. We attach particular importance to three elements. It is first of all that you have the opportunity to collate registers so that you have a better chance of having an overview of who actually lives in the different places. Secondly, you will have the opportunity to carry out inspections not inside people's homes, but at the doorstep, as is the case, for example, when the licence is collected. Thirdly, there is the possibility of including information from utilities, that is, information on how much electricity, water, etc. People use. It says quite a lot about whether you can expect someone to actually live at the addresses that you register. And on top of that, there are stricter sanctions when you violate these rules. Overall, we believe that there has been a good deal of progress here in ensuring that there are as few homes as possible, especially in the central metropolitan area, which is not inhabited by anyone and is not even inhabited by anyone, although perhaps they should be. There are still some 2,700 homes in the City of Copenhagen, which are non-resident, and although many of them serve a worthwhile purpose, for example the homes of the members of parliament who live in the province, there is still a certain amount where there is no good justification. It is the wish of the Social Democrats that there are as few homes as possible which are not subject to the obligation of residence or where the obligation of residence is cheated, because we want the housing in our capital to be used to enable people to live in them, so that as many people as possible can live in the metropolitan area. At the same time, it will ensure that the overall price level falls as supply increases. So, overall, we can agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144420	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144424	Thank you. I would like to point out that we had a joint motion for a resolution back in the 2016/17 Assembly, which was as follows: Parliament instructs the government in this Assembly to take the initiative to amend section 50 of the Housing Regulation Act. 1 and, where appropriate, other relevant legislation, so that newly built dwellings will be subject to the requirement of full-year residence in the local plans where the municipality requires full-year residence. It was, after all, a motion for a resolution tabled by the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative. We had a process and it ended up not being adopted because the Minister for Housing said he wanted to try to do something. I regard the draft law here today as an attempt by the Minister to do something. But that does not solve the problem of the new construction in the municipalities that want to have a residence obligation and better tools. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will take part in looking at whether this could be an amendment, so that we increase our efforts with regard to newly constructed housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144534	We would like to do so, but I think it is also important that we distinguish between cases where, for all kinds of reasons, a municipality has allowed in a local plan that there should be no obligation of residence for a dwelling. That is the case, among other things. The City of Copenhagen and probably many other places. After all, it is difficult to prevent it if the municipality wants to have empty homes, which are inhabited by people living abroad, one month a year, or how much it can be. I guess the municipality's gotta plan that way. But if it is about saying that the municipality in its local plan has demanded that people live there, then we must do everything we can from here to ensure that it is also complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144623	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144624	After all, our joint motion for a resolution was precisely that these are the places where municipalities require full-year residence in local plans, and that is to say that it is really mostly Copenhagen. However, with urban development taking place in other municipalities, it could also be possible to use it elsewhere. There are therefore also empty homes in Aarhus and Odense. So do I understand the rapporteur's response to my question so that it is something the rapporteur would like us to look further at in committee to see whether we should tighten up?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144657	Well, we would like to look further at what options are available to ensure that the municipalities' decision on whether or not to have a residence obligation is complied with. I cannot say from up here whether this can be done entirely technically, but we are, of course, going into that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144715	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we move on to the Danish People's Party, and this is Merete Dea Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144724	Thank you. It's been a while since we sat down together and had to look at rentals via e.g.. airbnb. The Danish People's Party has long had the focus that the concept of shared economy was no longer used as a real shared economy, where you swap houses and apartments and make the best use of the housing stock. Gradually, the share economy has in some cases become a money machine, which is about earnings and pure rental. As such, there is nothing wrong with this, that is to say, renting. We think it is very good that business is being created and that citizens are able to create something big and make money from it. But the problem arises when you actually do rental business and do not follow the legislation that comes with renting out then we suddenly talk about a distortion of competition. That is the reason for the agreement reached on airbnb. But it was important for the Danish People's Party that the agreement could not stand alone. There were a number of ways of controlling these homes. Municipalities, in particular the large municipalities, are facing challenges in controlling and documenting when they have a feeling that apartments are bought alone with the aim of renting out via airbnb; or where they are rented out to an extent that they must be described as a real rental company. The bill makes it possible to collate registers which can reveal whether a dwelling with a residence obligation is not used as a primary dwelling, and it will be possible for municipalities, if there is a concrete suspicion, to obtain information from utilities about a household's consumption. I am very pleased that it is now easier for municipalities to ensure that housing in their city is used according to intention. Should it prove that there are still challenges in documenting that housing is not used according to intention, the Danish People's Party will be open to look at further control and sanction options. But we believe that this agreement will bring us a long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144920	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128144922	Now there can be such a difference in what one considers to be the pre-history. I consider the history of this draft law today to be such that we had a joint motion for a resolution which, as it were, was addressed to municipalities which adopted local plans where they wanted to have a residence obligation; then we would like to see them enforce it. And it can be said that this element is not in the draft law here. I understood that at the time we had the process, the rapporteur wanted the Housing Minister to have the opportunity, as well as to find out how far one could go. I then consider this bill to be an end of it, and I see the possibility that we will also have the opportunity to reverse how we can ensure that the residence obligation that is in relation to newly constructed housing in municipalities, which adopts local plans where you want to have a residence obligation, is respected from the outset, because that problem does not solve the bill. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the tightening-up is something the rapporteur will be open to discussing in a committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145027	Very many cases have more legs to go on, and there are several reasons why you bring things up in different contexts. So it can be said that there are two reasons why this has come into play, because of course this is a problem which has also been highlighted in the past, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also describes. With regard to newly constructed dwellings, I would still say that this is also going in and can remedy there, because the problem is precisely that it has to remedy as soon as there is a residence obligation. As soon as a local plan with a residence obligation is drawn up, the municipalities must have this possibility of control. I am not aware that newly constructed dwellings should not be subject to the controls that we are going to adopt here at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145105	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145106	Well, then there's something to discuss. That's nice. We must then have clarified this by means of a committee procedure, because I do not think that this draft law will allow the municipalities to control a newly constructed dwelling where no one is moving in from the start. Then it will only be when, after a few years, someone moves in that you will be able to use the tools that are in the law. So there is such a gap where I think we should tighten up, and I look forward very much to it being discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145135	That is actually quite right, and I can now suddenly remember the issue, as the rapporteur also explains. I absolutely believe that we should look at this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145145	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145151	Thank you for that, President. I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. In the Left, we basically support the economic development of parts and platforms that we see in society. It ensures both a good use of society's resources and opens up completely new types of jobs and business models. However, there are also a number of challenges associated with all the new opportunities that we are trying to address with this bill. We do not believe that we should be able to acquire a house or an apartment with the sole aim of renting it out all the days of the year through services such as Airbnb, because the consequence of this, as we have seen in other European cities, may be to transform residential buildings into rental properties. That is why we want to ensure that full-year housing is only used for short-term rentals. The enforcement of these rules is the responsibility of the individual municipalities, and we therefore want to strengthen their control and sanctions. Specifically, this means that municipalities must have access to the CPR, BBR and ESR registers. In addition, the municipalities must be able to seek out selected households and obtain information on consumption from the utilities if there is a concrete suspicion that the rules on the obligation of residence are not complied with. The municipalities will then be well dressed to be able to ensure that the legislation on short-term rental is complied with. We in the Left believe this to be common sense, which is why, of course, we are voting in favour of the proposal. In relation to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's concerns and questions: yes, that is something we can discuss during the committee procedure and perhaps clarify it too, so that the doubts which Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has, can be manned in the ground. But it doesn't change that there are approx. 300 apartments in the City of Copenhagen, which are not required to live, that each municipality must ensure, through the local plan, that the property is subject to a residence obligation, even before the first registered tenant is established. The tools we get with this legislation are, of course, that if the municipality can observe that there, for example. has come a consumption before someone is registered to have his residence there, the municipality can by registering things in the local plan go in and make a check on the accommodation. The draft law provides a large number of good tools, which is why we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145447	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128145459	Thank you. It is going to be exciting with this committee and what can come out of it. In any case, I think it would be important to see what kind of empty housing there are in Copenhagen, is it 300, or is it 2,700, in which some people could live, that is, the newer homes that have been built and where the local plans of the municipality have wanted there to be a residence obligation and where it has to be observed that no one lives? So I think it is going to be extremely exciting whether we can come up with an amendment and I am also a little curious whether we can make such a far-reaching amendment to a draft law so that we can make sure that something was clarified that would allow the possibility of enforcing a residence obligation if new housing is built in a local plan that says that there must be a residence obligation. I think that would be fair to clarify. We are in favour of the legislative proposal in general terms, so we are also in favour of small steps forward. When you look at these things about obtaining data from utilities, I get the idea immediately that I am quite sure that the Liberal Alliance would have gone hard against it if it were so that it was a red government that had come up with that bill. Of course, it is an extended duvet promise that is being opened up here, and it comes from a minister from the Liberal Alliance. I think it would be important to unfold a little, whether these are rights that could also be shared with the castles. Because if, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at our rules on electricity supply, it is currently very difficult for a network company to provide data to the consumer because it might be that the consumer would like to look at: how is my consumption really and can I do something about it? It is difficult for utilities to be allowed to do so. But it is certainly special if you can then in such a bill here give a municipality the authority to go in and lift the covers and see when morning coffee is made and how much consumption overall is. So it comes from a liberal minister. I think that's a little thought-provoking. Then you can also ask yourself whether you will come to the conclusion that you will then get some data that you can use. After all, there may well be a dwelling where nobody officially lives and where there is still a certain amount of consumption, because they lend it to someone or rent it out to someone. And what kind of consumption can be recorded there? It could also be someone who has an apartment and has a job in another country and thus has a rather abnormal consumption. I think there is reason to look at those parts of the bill a little more closely with the legal eyes. In other words, if the Liberals do not want to protect the freedom of the individual, we must do so red. As to how much this will solve, I would like to have a concrete assessment of three issues. I have been informed that housing where the full year use cannot be documented by registration of the population, including in new buildings where there is not yet registered at the address, will still not be able to be better controlled. The reason is that these non-resident dwellings can remain outside the scope of the Housing Regulation Act. It would be nice to clarify whether that statement is correct. It goes on to say that, in the case of housing without a residence obligation, and I quote, the crux of the matter is that injunctions against unlawful use can only be made if the wrong use can be proved. With the bill, the municipality will not have the tools to establish this evidence. Consumption information and verification visits cannot in themselves prove how an accommodation is used. Thirdly, the proposed legislation does not give the municipalities sufficient time to instruct a tenant. This penalty is therefore in practice difficult to implement and therefore hampers the municipality's ability to maintain a residence obligation in the dwelling. If the latter is correct, there is good reason to look at whether there should be some time limits which should be a little longer before a municipality can direct a citizen to the empty dwelling. We're kind of in favour of these advances, but with a little concern about the liberal duvet lift to find out when coffee is made at a specific address. However, we think that there is a really good basis for us to have a good committee procedure and to clarify whether we could go one step further to ensure that the obligation of residence is respected in newly constructed dwellings in the municipalities which so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150003	We thank the rapporteur. No one has asked for any further comments. In this way, we shall proceed in the course of our speaking time to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150017	Thank you. Now, of course, there is already, especially from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, kindly greetings to liberally thinking people in this context. That is why, following on from this, I would like to say that we are always concerned that justice must be done. That is why we are also helping to give municipalities the possibility of control and sanctions in this context. However, we stress that the right and legal certainty of individuals should not be violated by giving municipalities wider access to inspection visits and the interconnection of registers. Therefore, we are aware that there must be reasonable suspicions before a municipality can collate registers or carry out verification visits. This gives the municipality access neither to residence nor to common areas such as a rise if the residents do not want it. So we in the Liberal Alliance think that a good balance has been found. It is, of course, because we have a liberal minister who is doing it with this bill. That is why, on the one hand, there are effective tools to check that rules are complied with, while, on the other hand, the legal certainty of citizens is not unduly harmed. That, then, is the combination that leads to the Liberal Alliance being able to support the proposal here, which comes from a liberal minister, with a fine vote. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150152	This did not result in a desire for short remarks. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Alternative's rapporteur, Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150204	Thank you. After all, this is a draft law which has been well examined by the previous rapporteurs. It is the implementation of agreement on better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in the shared and platform economy between the government, DF, S and Radical Left. The intention is to ensure an appropriate housing stock in the municipalities. We agree with that. The draft law has been revised on the basis of the consultation responses submitted, and we think that is quite reasonable. I have one question, and perhaps it is just because I have not read the bill carefully enough or because we are not part of the circle of agreements. But if there is any concrete suspicion that the obligation of residence is not being fulfilled, I would like to see further clarification. But I guess we'll get that in committee. Then there is one thing that I actually think we are going to do in committee. So in those words, we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150326	Thank you to the rapporteur. This did not give rise to brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left, as rapporteur. After all, the rapporteurs are not going to fight to get on the floor first. The rules are such that it is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, and then we get SF's rapporteur afterwards. Even though Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen is a very gallant gentleman, we'd better follow protocol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150347	Thank you. The Radical Left endorses the agreement on better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in the shared and platform economy. L 98, which we are discussing today, is, of course, a legislative application of this agreement, and it is about regulation as a result of new technology, one can basically say. Here we want to authorise the interconnection of registers and that municipalities can go to the threshold to check who actually lives in an apartment and even draw on information from utilities. As I said, it is all to allow municipalities to check whether the obligation to live is respected. The Radical Left supports the proposal. We foresee that it will not be the last time that we have to regulate the consequences of a new technology and new ways of forming society. I think it is important that we keep keeping up with our regulation and not, for example, keeping up with it. suddenly loses the opportunity to collect housing taxes or other. We note that the City of Copenhagen does not think this goes far enough. But we are prepared to give it a chance. We are also prepared to discuss the issues raised in committee by the other rapporteurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We can then go over to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150510	Thank you very much. It's not like getting into a fight about getting the platform here. In the SF we certainly also believe that the obligation of residence must be respected. We're actually really interested in that. We therefore also support the idea of improving the possibility for municipalities to control the full-year homes so that they can better ensure that the homes are actually used for what they are intended for. We are interested in making the best use of the housing available in the individual municipalities, which is why it is also important to make demands when we have a residence obligation. It is a problem if the municipalities do not feel well enough equipped to carry out that control, and that is why, of course, we must also have tools to control the full-year residences, so that the municipal council has the opportunity to make sure that they are used for what they are intended for. The only question is what the tools should be. In the SF we are concerned about the monitoring that lies in the control. We believe that it may be problematic that the draft law envisages the possibility of collating the CPR register with the BBR register and the ESR, as well as the possibility of consulting people at their homes and obtaining information from utilities about household consumption. We wonder why this kind of control of households is compatible with the Data Protection Act and the use of data for purposes other than the original one. That is why we would also like to ask a few questions about exactly what is going to happen in committee afterwards, so that we can clarify whether this is actually in accordance with the data protection law. There's no doubt that we're very interested that we're actually gonna do this job because it's a problem if it's the case that homes are being used for something other than what they're meant for. We already have a shortage of housing, and there is no reason why we should allow room for them to be used for something they are not meant for. However, we would like to be allowed to wait until we have clarified our concerns to make a final decision on the proposal. However, as I said, we are in favour of the possibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150736	That did not give rise to brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. This means that there are no more rapporteurs and we move on to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128150749	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The bill is to be seen in the context of the political agreement between the Government and DF, S and Radical Left of 17 May 2018 on better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in the shared and platform economy. The agreement contains the initiative on a clear framework for short-term housing rental, and the number of days that the Danes can legally rent their full-year residences is increased from 42 days to at least 70 days. So it is a clear liberalisation that is taking place in that agreement on the sharing and platform economy. On the other hand, the parties wanted to make sure that there was also control over compliance with the 70 days, and that is what this bill makes up for. According to the rules in force, full-year residences may not, as a rule, be empty or used for temporary use. The owner has a duty to ensure that the dwelling is used for a full year's residence. It has been found that it is difficult for the municipalities to check whether the obligation of residence is respected and that more tools are needed in the toolbox. The aim of the proposal is therefore to provide municipalities with better control tools to enable them to track down the homes used in violation of the rules. The municipalities are given a number of tools which together allow effective control of the rules of residence. The proposal contains three new controls: firstly, local authorities are given direct powers to collate relevant registers. These are the cpr register, the BBR register and the joint municipal real estate register, the ESR. Secondly, provision is made for municipalities to carry out on-the-spot visits to dwellings where there is a concrete suspicion that the obligation to reside is not being respected. Thirdly, in future, the municipalities will be able to obtain consumption information from the utilities if there is a concrete suspicion that the rules are being infringed. Finally, the proposal indicates that the penalty for breaching the rules on the obligation of residence is to be increased. Overall, I expect the proposal to help ensure the best use of housing stock, as the municipalities will in future be more easily able to track down owners of housing that do not comply with the rules of residence. I believe that the draft law represents a sensible balance between opportunities and rights, in which the municipalities are given a number of effective tools to check that the obligation of residence is respected, without at the same time burdening tenants and landlords unnecessarily. I would like to thank you once again for the positive comments and I look forward to the committee's reading in the same positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151042	There are some requests for brief comments to the Minister. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151048	I would like to hear from the Minister why it has been decided that this bill should not apply to newly constructed housing in the municipalities where they have decided in the local plan that there should be a residence obligation, and where in particular the City of Copenhagen has asked that there should be something more in the toolbox to ensure that the residence obligation is respected immediately. Isn't it the case that this bill doesn't give the municipality additional opportunities to secure it, but that it more concerns addresses where there has at some point been a registered resident and where the municipality then gets some tools to enforce it forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151138	This bill includes new homes as well as old homes. There is a special feature of newly built dwellings that the Housing Regulation Act enters into force only at the time when a person registers his residence there at the People's Register. Otherwise, however, the newly built dwellings are in exactly the same way. If you want control mechanisms to be extended in relation to the law on plans, which allows municipalities to say whether an area should be for a full year's residence or for leisure accommodation, then this must be done in the law on plans, by changing something there. However, this legislation, which deals with the Housing Regulation Act, applies fully to all dwellings, both old dwellings and newly constructed dwellings.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151227	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151228	So we have to note that if we are going to secure it in relation to newly built dwellings in Copenhagen, where we want to have a residence obligation, then the owners of those homes can continue to refrain from inhabiting them as long as we do not change the law on plans. So the Minister says that the rules apply, but if there is a reality that means that someone buys a home and leaves it empty for many years before moving in, then will you be able to continue to practice it without this bill providing tools to intervene against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151300	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This means that if you are using a dwelling contrary to the intention of the planning law, where, for example, there is a is written in the local plan that it is for a full-year residence, and then you do not use it for a full-year period, but only as a leisure home, then it is contrary to the planning law. So the law of plans applies in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151321	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151323	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his detailed work. I just have a brief question which may be clarified in committee, but it is a question of the fact that if there is a concrete suspicion that the residence obligation has not been complied with, the municipal council will be able to obtain information from utilities in relation to total consumption. Now I have not read it quite, I think, or several times enough to understand whether we have a description of how concrete suspicions are being settled. Does the Minister know about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151411	Exactly how to do that I think I must owe a written answer to. But it is true that there has to be a suspicion before you start checking consumption data.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151416	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen his second brief remark? No. Then it is for Mrs Kirsten Normann to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151430	Thank you. I just have a question with regard to the data protection law, which is trying very clearly to protect us, in relation to the data that are of course many that are collected around the individual, in this case about heating consumption, electricity consumption and water consumption, because it says that the law says that you can only use this information for what it is collected for. How does the Minister think this proposal is compatible with the Data Protection Act, and how have we secured it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151508	Well, it's in harmony with what they've been collected for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151513	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151514	They are, of course, collected in order to determine how much consumption I have, so I can pay it. That's what they're meant for originally. Now you want to use them to check whether people have lived in the apartment or in the apartment, so that's another purpose right now. In fact, I think the Data Protection Act is important, it is intended to protect us, and that is why, of course, I am also concerned that we are also complying with the law exactly on this point, if it is the case that these data are used for something other than what is intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151549	There's nothing in this law that goes against other legislation, and it's legal to make a law that says you have to collect data on consumption to check if people live in a home. There's nothing illegal about that. This is in full compliance with the legislation and that is why we are proposing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151609	No one else has asked for brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. If no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181128151629	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 29 November 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. In this connection, I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
