ParlaMint-DK_20180118100010	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 63 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on university language centres). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Agenda item 6, 1st reading of motion for a resolution B 36, Draft parliamentary resolution on the abolition of double mandates as a member of the municipal or regional council and a member of the Folketing is deleted from today's agenda as the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior is ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100052	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100107	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100144	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100202	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100226	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100243	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 100 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 6 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100310	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100330	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. in favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100400	Then I think we can move on. Members who are not going to participate in this, either remain silent or leave the Chamber so that I can go further. Thank you. The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100515	Thank you for that, President. In Denmark we have 750,000 citizens who, for one reason or another, have physical or mental impairments. Some people are disabled in one way or another, and that is 750,000 people. At EU level, if you raise your eyes, it is 80 million people that are involved. That's the one thing in this bill, and that's just the facts. The second point is that the Internet plays an increasingly important role in communication between the public and the public. It goes both ways and also with regard to citizens' ability to participate actively in society. Therefore, it is also important for a democracy like Denmark that there is accessibility for everyone on public authorities' websites. This bill has come because the European Parliament and the Council, in other words the Council of Ministers, have adopted a so-called web accessibility directive, which is now to be transposed into Danish legislation. This means, in concrete terms, that the draft law lays down the requirement for certain standards to be applied to public authorities' websites. For example: videos must be texted so that the deaf and hearing impaired can access what is transmitted in the video. There must be an opportunity to read the text. There must be captions describing what is happening on images so that blind people and people with visual impairment can have it read out if it is part of the communication on the public authority's website. And it must be possible to navigate the website without computer mice, as it may be difficult for people with certain disabilities to use it. We believe that people with disability, disability, must, of course, have exactly the same opportunities to achieve their full potential as everyone else. We must live up to the UN Disability Convention, which says that people with disabilities on an equal footing with everyone else must, of course, have access to the information and communication that is open to the public. We have read in the government's proposal here that the government takes the view that there are minor administrative consequences for the public sector and virtually no economic consequences, all the time that KL, i.e. the Landsforening, Danske Regions and the government, i.e. the state, already agreed standards for accessibility in relation to websites ten years ago. And the Danish agreement runs very precisely with the new demands that have now been made on the whole of the EU area. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Jan Rytkjær Callesen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100834	Thank you. Now, sir. Magnus Heunicke told me what it is all about, so I will not start recounting that in my rapporteur's speech again. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we are also very pleased with this proposal. I would say that we are actually already quite good at it in Denmark if we now take our television stations, which are quite good at making synchronous texts for the deaf and what is now there. So in the Danish People's Party we also look very positively at this, and that is of course the way we should go, for the disabled, so that they can keep up with what is happening here in Denmark and in the rest of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100914	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118100925	Like the previous rapporteur, I also think that the Socialist rapporteur provided a very good review of the draft law. In fact, it is difficult for me not to be even more enthusiastic than the Socialist rapporteur on the content of the draft law, so it is just now that I can say that I agree with the speech by the Socialist rapporteur. It's actually a nice situation to be in, because it doesn't happen very often. After all, this is about the fact that we in society have become more and more digital, finding many digital solutions. And in Denmark, we have come a great deal far in this area, which is why we must of course also ensure that those citizens who are struggling with some disability of one kind or another can be as self-reliant as possible and deal with these digital solutions themselves. That's why it's a really good move in this bill. It therefore has the support of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101029	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101040	From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we can also support this proposal as a starting point, because it is so insanely important that there is proper accessibility for people with disabilities and that there is equal opportunities for obtaining information from public authorities. So it's really good. I would say, however, that for example. Danish Handicap organisations in the consultation answer to the bill write that it is unambitious that the government is not willing to go further where there is actually a chance to create a better framework than those envisaged in the EU directive. I would like us to have a discussion during the legislative procedure on whether we could not go further. One of the areas that I think is obvious to discuss is whether the distinction between what is and is not public authorities is adequate for the school area, where private schools are not subject to the same requirements. The same applies to day-care institutions. It has to be said that it is extremely important that young people and parents, too, and so on. have proper access to daily welfare services. Here I think we should look at whether it cannot be further thanked. But we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101202	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101209	Thank you for the floor. The Minister for Public Innovation has laid a style of titles on legislative proposals that do not draw the big headlines, but which are actually really, really good and important when you get a little into the material. That also applies to this bill, L 126. It may not be a title that draws huge headlines, but it is really, really important that we ensure that all citizens have the same opportunities to access and use websites and applications from the public sector. After all, it is a demand we make to the citizens that we can address them electronically, and then, of course, we must also ensure that this can happen without undue difficulty. So this is a very sensible legislative proposal, which we naturally support in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101301	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101309	Thank you. The alternative, of course, supports making the websites and mobile applications of public bodies more accessible to the 750,000 citizens in this country who have disabilities or disabilities or the like, and we support to the extent that we comply with the UN Disability Convention. It is important that all people have easy access to the public institutions and authorities and thus can get the help and guidance they need. But like Enhedslisten, we also note that the Danish Handicap Federation and the Institute for Human Rights believe that the proposal is not ambitious enough. In particular, they point out that the Minister can exempt schools, nurseries and kindergartens from this requirement. That is why we would also like to help to see whether this is something that we can change, possibly by tabling motions for resolutions, or at all to ensure that the institutions mentioned must also comply with this requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101417	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101429	With this bill, we make it easier for people with disabilities to use public sector websites and mobile applications. Blind should be able to read out captions, you should be able to navigate without the use of mice, videos should be texted, and it should be possible to have the text read up • a lot less, simple changes, but changes with very great importance for people with different disabilities. The legislative proposal is the implementation of a directive from the European Union, and once again the European Union is showing the way to getting the Member States to implement good legislation, which is of great importance to a great many people. In the Radical Left, we support the bill and we will follow closely that municipalities and other public institutions covered by the bill also implement the things that need to be done to ensure that the law is observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101525	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101533	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, the proposal concerns the implementation of an EU directive on the availability of public bodies' websites and mobile applications. I have been looking forward to saying this because I think it is the most non-native headline I have ever heard. However, thank you to the Socialists for translating it so that we can understand it as well. In the SF, we are also positive about the proposal, which can improve equality for people with disabilities in relation to the concrete proposal and also ensure citizens with disabilities access to information on an equal footing with others. However, as can also be seen from the consultation answers from Danish Handicap organisations, there is room for improvement. In SF we actually share Danske Handicaporganisationer's wonder that the directive is implemented on the basis of the minimum requirements, and not least I find it surprising that the Ministry of Finance responds to the puzzle with something that can best be translated as: that is the way it is. I think that it is right to expect individual consideration to be given to the implementation of EU directives in Danish legislation, and especially in the area of equal treatment legislation. In the SF we have noted that in the implementation of the directive the Minister believes that self-serving institutions, private schools, etc. may be exempted from the availability requirement. In view of the many self-serving institutions, educational institutions and so on, which carry out tasks on behalf of the public sector, I think that the Minister should clarify his answer as to why so much of the public sector should be exempted from the accessibility requirement and, in parentheses, it can be said, even in the context of free and equal competition. Finally, it makes sense when Danske Handicap organisations demand clarity in relation to sanctions, because it is precisely sanctions that represent a weighting of the degree to which the Minister believes that public authorities should take the legislation on equality for citizens with disabilities seriously. As I have said, the SF is voting in favour of the proposal, despite the fact that we think there is room for improvement, but we also hope that during the committee procedure we may have the opportunity to deepen the answers to Danish disabled organisations about improvement opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101754	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101801	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are discussing here today is, after all, in line with the fact that the Internet is playing a far greater role today between citizens and the public sector than it did just a few years ago. That is why it is important that we now transpose the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 into Danish law in the legislative proposal. We can see that the majority of public authorities, through an agreement between the government and KL and Danske Regions, have already had to follow the same accessibility requirements for websites since 2008, and the requirement that public authorities' mobile applications should be available by 2021 is not expected to entail additional costs. This means, of course, that we can run through L 126 here without any significant economic problems and without any particular cost. From the three-quarters of a million Danes we have who have different disabilities, we have to say that accessibility to what is called the Internet and mobile applications is very, very important, and it has given mobility, also for people with disabilities, who are ultimately also a benefit to them, because the Internet has become something that makes them much more mobile and that they can access the public sector websites and follow them there. So the Conservatives vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118101951	Thank you. Then it is the Minister of Public Innovation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118102002	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the debate from the rapporteurs and the basically positive reception of the bill. In this context, accessibility is essentially about the fact that all citizens must be able to use public bodies' websites and mobile applications. If you are visually impaired or blind, you should be able to enlarge the text or get it read out, or if you do not have full ability, you should still be able to find relevant information on a website. I think that today's debate reflects the fact that we agree that it is important that, as a society, we ensure that digital solutions should, of course, be available to everyone, including citizens with disabilities. As a small addition to the debate and, as such, as a follow-up to what the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party observed, I can say that, unlike most of the other countries, Denmark has, since 2008, had a joint public agreement to follow the requirements of accessibility on public authorities' websites, and guidance has been provided on a regular basis over the period from central level. We are therefore also in a situation where public authorities have had to comply with the requirements for a number of years of almost ten years, that it is also to be expected that the authorities today also have some experience of being able to comply with them. So in other words, we're not gonna start at all, and in this area too, we're in Denmark far ahead in a European context. With legislation in place throughout the EU, there will also be better incentives to develop and develop tools that make accessibility work easier and better. We can already see today that the development of whole- and semi-automatic accessibility solutions so small is beginning to speed up. I can hear from the speaker from the rapporteurs that there will also be a number of follow-up questions in the further reading of the committee, and I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may be raised. However, thank you for a good debate and for the basically positive reception of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118102225	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118102241	Then I shall postpone the sitting until 8:00. 1 p.m., where the last item on the agenda is Question No 1 p.m. F 7.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118130000	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 23 January 2018. We shall then hear a explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and I give the floor to Mr Beazley. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118130036	Thank you, sir. President. See, we in the Danish People's Party have chosen to call this inquiry debate, given that the number of foreign citizens working in Denmark is now the largest since the count on Jobsats.dk began. 336,840 foreign nationals worked in the course of 2016 in Denmark, and within the last year 11,000 new Eastern workers have found their way here. This represents an increase of 10%. 1 year. The number of East Europeans working in Denmark now exceeds the size of the population of Esbjerg. At the same time, we have observed some movements in a number of parties in relation to the question of the free movement of workers, and we will try to find out here today what these movements are. Of course, it is not unproblematic that so many foreigners over a relatively short period of time come to Denmark to work. It pushes the Danish unemployed out of the labour market, it keeps wage increases down, it puts pressure on the conditions offered to Danish employees, and it puts pressure on our social benefits. EU citizens, once they have earned the right to benefit, can take the daily allowance home with them and live as kings and barons, without really having the opportunity to ensure that they are actually available for the labour market. EU citizens can come to Denmark and take a leisure job, get the right to SU and even, it turns out now, an SU loan that will not be paid off because the state has no option to recover the debt. In addition, people, among other things. Roma, using the rules on the free movement of workers to take up residence in Denmark, where they hut themselves with begging, crime, etc. Nor can we get rid of those people, even though the government, when it introduced the law on insecurity-building begging, emphasized precisely that the introduction of a prison sentence would mean that we could expel those concerned. In front of us is the accession of the countries of the Western Balkans, which is one of the four main priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency, which will mean that even more cheap labour will be immediately available on the Danish labour market. So there are quite a lot of challenges associated with the EU rules on the free movement of workers, and I look forward to hearing how the Minister for Employment imagines attacking them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118130313	Thank you. That was the justification. In fact, then, we need an answer from the Minister for Employment, and if the Minister wants to take the floor, that would be very good. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118130333	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for the question, which today gives us in this Parliament ample opportunity to discuss the issue of freedom of movement, and the government fully agrees with the premise of the question. There are potentially negative consequences and, in some cases, some unfairness in EU cooperation, and we have had ample opportunity to discuss this. The government's position is clear: the European Union should not develop towards a social union; we have spent a great deal of time discussing this. However, we also believe that the EU's internal market and free movement are fundamental to growth and employment in Denmark. When we want to combat injustice, it is among other things. to maintain support for the EU's internal market. As far as the question is concerned, I would like to start by emphasising that the government is not considering the issue of freedom of movement in relation to the countries of the Western Balkans. The government is, of course, generally concerned with the enlargement negotiations, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs also has the overall responsibility for this. For the sake of good order, I should just like to mention which six countries we are talking about and what the status is: negotiations have begun with two candidate countries: Montenegro and Serbia. Then there are two candidate countries that have not yet started accession negotiations with Albania and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Finally, there are two potential candidate countries: Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. For all the countries, accession is not at the door. Nor are they large populations. Together they have about 18 million inhabitants, and Serbia, which is the most populous of these countries, has 7 million inhabitants. Moreover, once a new country has joined the European Union, there has been a practice of having a transitional period of 7 years for the free movement of workers. We will work for this, too, with the accession of new countries, no matter where the countries of Europe are located. Thus, during that period, a country may choose to suspend, in whole or in part, the rules on the free movement of labour. Therefore, the possible enlargement to include Western Balkan countries is not something that, from the point of view of the labour market, concerns the government here and now. As far as the Western Balkans are concerned. As regards the part of the question on the negative consequences of free movement, which is also wanted to discuss in general terms, the government has been concerned from the first day that there must be more fairness in EU rules on free movement. The European Union must not develop towards a social union, it is also a desire that we share with a broad majority in the Folketing, and that comes among other things. in the current negotiations on revision 883 on social security for migrant workers. I have argued many times now and in the past that it is not fair to send a whole child's check to children living in countries where you can get much more for the money. It is very disappointing, unfortunately, to note that the Commission's proposal does not correct this imbalance in the rules. That is why it is one of the government's priorities that we work to be able to index child pay to other EU countries. There are many countries that are vertically opposed to our wishes, the same countries argue among other things. If you pay the same tax in Denmark, you also have to have the same benefits. I do not agree with that view, because there is a redistribution in the tax system and you get benefits in relation to what you need. The children's check in Denmark is determined on the basis of the Danish cost of living, so if the children live in a country where the costs are e.g. half of the Danish level, there is over-compensation. The government is working to convince more and more countries of the fairness of our demands. Another absurdity is the possibility of taking unemployment benefits to another country to look for work there. We had a debate on this issue in this House just over a month ago in connection with the first reading of B9, and I am not going to repeat all the views of this debate here. I would just like to make it clear that it is highly unsatisfactory that the Commission has proposed to extend the period during which jobs can be sought abroad with daily allowances. As I said earlier, we will fight against this. We think it's the wrong way to go. On the other hand, there is another Commission proposal that we will fight to maintain, because it is a Danish fingerprint on the Commission's proposal that makes good sense. It is the proposal that you should work three months in one EU country before earning unemployment benefit from another EU country. It would be extremely unfair if you were to receive unemployment benefit in Denmark after only a few days' employment because you can meet the earning requirement with periods from one country. Therefore, in Denmark we have a rule that you have to work 296 hours within 3 months before you can be considered and receive unemployment benefit in Denmark. After a great effort from among others. The Commission has become convinced that this is a sensible rule, and that is why this rule is now included in the Commission's proposal. In spring 2018, we will be discussing unemployment insurance in the Council, and in this area we can expect opposition from other countries, but we have more support for this wish than for the idea of indexing the children's cheque. Let me conclude by stressing that the positive effects of the internal market are difficult to escape. And that's one of the things we rarely dwell on. For example: almost 600 Danish jobs can be attributed to the EU's internal market. It is obvious that a common market with the same standards and without tariff barriers makes it easier to export and makes it cheaper to import. Two thirds of Danish exports go to EU countries. Imports benefit consumers through a wider range of products and increased competition, which leads to lower prices. Companies will be able to specialise in the production and export of the goods at their best while the rest is imported. In other words, it benefits productivity in companies. The single market, for example, has a single market. also led to lower fares for air tickets and telephone calls, and as recently as June last year, new rules on roaming entered into force in the EU, which would allow all EU citizens to use more data in another EU country until 2022 without having to pay extra for it. The internal market is therefore good for growth and employment in Denmark and, for that matter, for the rest of Europe. In addition, labour from other EU countries is an important complement to the Danish workforce. I would, of course, prefer that as many Danish employers as possible give priority to helping to ensure that the unemployed we have in Denmark get to work. But the fact is that there is a need for us to be able to pick up labour in other parts of Europe. It is crucial for Danish companies that there is an opportunity to collect labour outside Denmark, precisely to ensure that you have the necessary growth opportunities. The job market is not a chair game where there are only a certain number of available chairs. We must ensure that the labour force in Denmark is trained and that it is worthwhile to work, and we are doing the same. As part of the agreement for several years on the labour market, you can look forward to paying your early retirement savings tax-free up to and including June. Because we also want to help ensure that older people stay longer in the labour market. In addition, we have also taken some initiatives in the conciliation circle behind the employment reform, where we agreed two months ago on a package of initiatives to prevent bottlenecks beginning to arise and at the same time ensure that the unemployed acquire the skills that companies demand. The government will shortly be presenting more proposals to combat bottlenecks. However, even if we were in the situation that all unemployed Danes were on the labour market, we cannot escape the fact that foreign labour will continue to be an important contribution. We could see this at the latest during the boom 10 years ago, when there were hardly any unemployed people left in Denmark. At that time, the work of the other EU countries helped to keep their hands under the Danish labour market, and since then more workers from other EU countries have continued to come to Denmark. From 2008 to 2016, foreign labour increased from 134,000 full-time persons to 136,000 full-time persons, or from approx. 6% 5% to 9%. of the labour force. By far the largest part of the increase can be attributed to EU citizens, whose number increased from 83,000 to 123,000 full-time. Despite this increase, we are now in a situation of increasing bottleneck problems, and that is because it is going well in Denmark at the moment and it must continue to go well in Denmark. At the same time, we can also foresee a continued need for foreign labour, which is why we also have to give the necessary opportunity, on the one hand, to get more Danes into the labour market and, on the other hand, to be able to recruit outside labour. It will be, for example. more attractive for Poles to return to Poland, and we can also see how Poland is currently making a particularly strenuous effort to recruit back their own countrymen. This should be seen in the light of the fact that unemployment in Poland is record low and in October unemployment in Poland was below 5%. In Germany, which is also a major supplier of labour in Denmark but which at the same time wants to attract labour from outside, there is now an unemployment rate below the 4. After all, it is good for both Poland and Germany, and it is also good for the European Union that there is growth in those countries, as it helps to draw growth across Europe. This is not something that can be discussed in isolation. We need to see Europe under one. Therefore, the government also believes that there is a need to discuss the long-term perspectives and challenges on the Danish labour market. Among other things, it has to be done. is seen in the context of the future development of the labour market with an increased degree of automation, digitalisation and disruption. That is why I am also looking forward to discussing foreign labour and the importance of it at the next Disruption Council meeting on 30 and 31 January, and I look forward to hearing the Council's input and views on this agenda. The government will continue to focus on the fact that working in Denmark must be done on proper conditions and that we must continue to ensure the work of addressing unfairness in EU rules. There are two things that are crucial. But we must not put growth and the good economic conditions at risk by not taking stock of the challenges of the future in the Danish labour market. Basically, Denmark has a real, real need to be part of European cooperation, which helps to create growth, development and employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118131344	We therefore thank the Minister for the time being, who will be back. We are thus addressing the negotiations, and the first in line is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118131354	Thank you, sir. President. After all, we share the government's concern about the issue of social union, because we are also opposed to that, but nevertheless we can see how the EU system is moving in that direction, most recently with the adoption of a social protocol, which I also know the social partners at home are very concerned about, i.e. how the European Court of Justice will use it. After all, the European Court of Justice is well known for taking a very active line, and it has to be said that there have been some opportunities with the social protocol, which we do not know the scope of. In relation to indexing child pay, which the Minister also mentioned, I would like to say that it is in fact the case that, according to Danish law, there should be no need for indexation at all, because there we have some profit principles that apply, but which have then been put out of effect, because we have EU law that trumps Danish legislation. That is not appropriate. What I really thought was most interesting about the Minister's speech was that the Minister introduced the possibility of actually making use of a 7-year transitional regime in the event that new countries had to join the European Union. We didn't do that last time, so it's interesting if it's something that Denmark wants to use in the future. I am not surprised, of course, that the government has no objection in principle to the free movement of workers. In the government's optics, it seems that there are two equal job seekers, the Danish employee on the one hand and so on, for example. One east European on the other. But it is really a sign, because East Europeans often come here without family obligations, but for the sole purpose of working. That is why we have also seen several examples of EU workers who have worked up to 55 hours a week but have only been paid 37 hours. A Danish help recipient also has a family life to take into account, and there may be some who have health challenges, there may be some who have been many years outside the labour market, and for a company the easy choice will then also be an Eastern European. That is why we also see that some companies have a business model which simply hires Eastern European labour, and that is not appropriate to the extent that it means that a Danish unemployed person is on public support, where he should otherwise have been in a job. In the Danish People's Party, we have also pointed out the problems of Regulation 883 and the interpretation of the concept of worker by the European Court of Justice. This now amounts to a one-digit number of working hours per week being regarded as an employee, and that includes one-digit number of working hours per week. pressure on our SU system, and it is a pressure that has not been reduced by the fact that we are not able to recover the debt from SU recipients from other EU countries who have chosen to borrow in this country. The Danish People's Party has in the past appealed to at least try to define the concept of worker, for example. so that at least 30 hours per week would be employed in order to be regarded as an employee. From the point of view of the Danish People's Party, it is particularly important to get order in this area before we had to admit the countries of the Western Balkans at some point. The Danish People's Party is not very much in favour of this, but I have the expectation that the countries of the Western Balkans will, at some point, nevertheless join the European Union, and I must say that we do not look forward with great enthusiasm to immigration from Albania and Kosovo and Bosnia, because, in addition to the labour market conditions, including the huge wage gap, of course, there is also a not insignificant cultural difference which makes integration difficult. I would like to stress that the Danish People's Party has never said that there should be 0 • as in 0 • foreign employees to Denmark to work, but we want it to be Denmark and here in Denmark that we decide who comes and under what conditions they can come to Denmark to work. It is unreasonable that we should be forced on outside labour, which is sometimes not even labour, but people who come to the country for the sole purpose of hurling their way into life. Against this background, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to work to ensure that EU rules on the free movement of workers are abolished as far as possible. The provisions on the free movement of workers were probably one of the main reasons for the outcome of the referendum on EU membership in Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It should be up to Denmark to decide who comes here to work and what conditions can be imposed for them to receive public benefits. Thus, the Folketing instructs the Government to ensure that access to social security benefits for migrant workers is abolished. Parliament notes that the Bulgarian Presidency has chosen the accession of the countries of the Western Balkans as one of its key priorities. Parliament stresses that the possible future accession of the countries of the Western Balkans and Turkey further updates the need to limit access to work in other EU Member States. • V 24).
ParlaMint-DK_20180118131905	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption which has been read out will then be included in the negotiations. There has been a single question sneaking in, and it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118131916	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the presentation and also for calling the question debate. Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti agree on one thing, and it is that it is the Danish people who must decide who should come to Denmark and under what conditions. I guess we don't agree on the rest. But the reason I ask is because I heard the rapporteur use the word 'choice': the Commission has decided or adopted a social protocol. I would ask the rapporteur to correct this, because the Commission does not. The Commission has adopted what the Commission calls a social pillar. And linguistic precision is a little important here because the social protocol is something that the European trade union movement has demanded to ensure that trade union rights are overarching economic freedoms, because the European trade union movement believes that it has unfortunately been reversed. It is the economic freedoms that have taken precedence, as they say, over trade union rights. The European trade union movement has made a concrete proposal for this. That is not the Commission's agenda at all. The Commission has created a social pillar which is all sorts of good from the sea and which, at the moment, does not have any legal or legal value, which, in the view of the Enhedslisten, should not be given, because it will then allow the Court of Justice to interpret a whole lot of other social rights in the light of economic and monetary union and the rules of free movement. So we want to achieve exactly the opposite of what the European trade union movement wants to achieve. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur, for the sake of further debate, to make it clear that there is that difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132105	I can fully confirm that. That must have been a statement on my part, because what I was talking about was, of course, the social pillar. After all, we have dealt with the social protocol in another resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, and we shall return to that. So I can only confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132122	Then Mr. Finn Sørensen would like to ask you one more time anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132127	Thank you. Following on from the rapporteur's reply, I would just like to ask: when we had the debate on the social protocol, the Danish People's Party was not quite clear on how it felt about the Enhedslisten's proposal, which is, of course, that Denmark should just as well lift up the European trade union proposal for a social protocol in the EU and say: "This is what Denmark thinks the European Union should have." How are things going with the Danish People's Party clarification in relation to that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132156	It is not, in fact, much different than it was during the debate on the motion for a resolution. We have not taken a position on how we vote on this matter. What you can see is that there are pluses and minuses which are known to exist, and that is also in relation to the social protocol. We shall come back to that during the committee procedure and presumably we shall have to assume that, including here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132219	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132222	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. In his speech, the rapporteur says something about the fact that it is unreasonable that we in Denmark should be forced on outside labour. Now it is the case that we live in a free country, and it is the Danish companies that recruit the employees that they want. In my understanding, this is quite voluntary and without compulsion. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that it is not actually entirely reasonable to say that Danish companies are being forced on labour from abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132257	So, Denmark is forced on labour from abroad. The labour force that then comes is sometimes not labour ■ that is true, for example. the gypsies that we have running around in the capital and elsewhere in the country by the way. After all, they are here on the grounds of the free movement of workers, and those people, I assume, are also some that the Liberal Alliance does not think should be here at first sight. After all, we also have some other restrictions that apply to citizens who are not EU citizens, for example. the amount scheme. You can, for example. do not come to Denmark from Zimbabwe and then have a right to seek work here. Then you have to follow the rules that are that you have to be paid to a certain extent in order to do so. I don't know if the Liberal Alliance has any other wish. It may well be I thought at some point I heard something with open borders and closed boxes or something. So this might mean that the Liberal Alliance had a wish that people from Zimbabwe and Malawi, and what I know, could come to Denmark to look for jobs, without any kind of distinction whatsoever, that it was not possible for them. But perhaps Mrs Christina Egelund can come back to that at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132406	There's a chance of that now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132407	I just need to get it right. In other words, with reference to Gypsies mentioned by the rapporteur, and to Zimbabwe and Malawi, the rapporteur maintains that Danish companies are, because I assume that when the rapporteur says that Denmark is imposed on it, he actually means Danish companies, because it is in the companies that the work is imposed on workers from abroad. Is that a claim that the rapporteur will stand by?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132434	Well, I haven't said anything about Danish companies. I have said Denmark, Denmark as a country, Denmark as a nation. This means, of course, that we cannot prevent people from EU countries from coming here and looking for work for a period of time. And that also applies to people who are obviously not here to look for work, i.e. for example. the Gypsies mentioned earlier. These are people who are really here to beg their way into life, to commit crime and so on. But they're here under the guise of looking for work. In other words, when they are arrested by the police in the public room, the police are told that it is in order to get a job. It may well be that they are in a sleeping bag somewhere in a park, but nevertheless their reason to be here is to look for a job. I doubt that's right. I think they're here to make a mess, to tell you the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132524	The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132526	Now the Danish People's Party has reduced the issue of the free movement of workers to the issue of Gypsies and people from Zimbabwe. In other words, can we not agree that the free movement of workers is in general an advantage for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132549	No, actually, I don't think so. I know there are many figures that go in one direction and in the other, but I am still talking about the figure given to Mr Bjarne Corydon by the then Finance Minister. Joachim B. Olsen in connection with a question in the Folketing. This showed that there was, in fact, a net decrease in revenue and expenditure in relation to the Eastern European employees. And what has to be taken into account there is that the calculations do not take into account what Denmark would save, because it was a Danish employee who got this job and thus no longer had to receive cash benefits and cash benefits, instead of an Eastern European who, while he is in this country, earns Danish benefit rights. I am aware that it is difficult to count all this together, but I do not think I have reason to believe that this should be a fantastic business for Denmark. Whatever it is, even if it is, some people are affected by the people who cannot get a job because their jobs are taken over by East Europeans.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132654	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132656	So that means that the Danish People's Party would like to see all foreign workers in Denmark leaving Denmark. Has the idea been thought through, namely that it would also mean that the Danish labour force, who is currently abroad, would then also have to go home to Denmark and perhaps take those positions? So, the net result would be the same, since the difference between how many Danes have gone out and how many Europeans have entered Denmark is not so great.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132724	It seems to me a little that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen uses a bit of Mother Karen as a stone philosophy in interpreting what I say from Parliament's platform. So, what I said was that I think it should be Denmark that is sovereign to decide which citizens should come in from other countries to work here, and I also specifically said that we do not think it should be 0. I do not want to dwell on what figure it should be, but of course it should not be 0, because we can also benefit from it in certain contexts. But what we certainly do not benefit from is when we get so-called labour for the country in the form of gypsies, beggars, and I do not know what is taking advantage of these rules at will, and there I have to say that I have not seen the government seriously attack that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132811	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132814	Thank you. I'm just a little puzzled, because normally you say in the Danish People's Party that you also have a strong social profile. When you hear the rapporteur's speech, it sounds as if the internal market is fine, where the goods can go around, but that we should not have a European Union that is about people at all. So it is only the capital that has to decide everything. Is the rapporteur not at all worried that if a system is built only on the basis of the free movement of capital, we will lose some of the social balance that is precisely in the European Union, where people are also being talked about, and where we have started working on a social pillar which must focus more specifically on the fact that this is also about people? It is not only the capital that has to decide everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118132909	I am clear and the Danish People's Party is unequivocally opposed to the development of a social union. After all, it is a question of gradually transferring more and more power to the European Union, on the one hand, directly and, on the other hand, very indirectly. You can see that exemplified, for example. on the question of SU, where we are now in the absurd situation, that there are some students coming up here who would like to study at Danish universities. It doesn't qualify them for SU. But the fact that they then get a job of 8 hours in Domino's Pizza or somewhere else, a week or so, makes them suddenly become migrant workers and get the right to Danish SU. Then they will also have the right to apply for SU loans. We now find that we cannot get them back because there is a gap in the EU's rules on debt recovery. This means that we are in a situation where foreign students in this country end up being treated better than Danish students. That's totally untenable. And why has this happened? After all, this has happened because of the EU's involvement in Danish affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133010	It is just to understand the whole principle: that is to say, you have nothing against the supranational nature of the internal market when it comes to goods, and when it comes to money, it is fine that it is supranational, because that is how it is in the internal market for goods and for finances etc., but when you work with rules that have to create a social balance, it is quite wrong. So it is the market of capital that the Danish People's Party wants with the single market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133038	There you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist understands that when it is the case that we in the Danish People's Party say that we are opposed to the free movement of workers, that we are opposed to the possibility of receiving social income support and other benefits in Denmark as an EU citizen, then the problem that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is trying to say is present. Because then you can't come to Denmark and outbid Danish labour, and that's the situation we're going back to. We are in favour of having European free trade and we are also in favour of having free trade agreements with all sorts of other countries around the world that want to conclude them on fair and fair terms. This may mean that a country like China is not at the top of the list, but we are in favour of free trade across borders. We are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133125	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133127	It seems very dramatic to want to abolish the free movement of workers completely. Most of us have a perception that there are very great advantages in that Danes can apply to jobs abroad that they find exciting, where they can earn a good salary and get some good challenges, and that foreigners can also come to Denmark and fill some jobs that Danish companies benefit from filling out. That is why I find it rather difficult to understand that instead of trying to work on the disadvantages of the free movement of workers, it will be completely abolished. Then I wondered a lot about the answer to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen before where Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, when he asked whether the free movement of workers in general is not an advantage for Denmark, received that reply from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, that there was a calculation made, compared to that East Europeans did not make any profit for Denmark. Do we agree that it is not possible to answer the question of whether the free movement of workers in general benefits Denmark, by selecting only one group of workers, namely East Europeans, and then using it to conclude that overall there is a deficit in terms of freedom of movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133238	After all, the fact is that the majority of EU citizens who have come to Denmark to work come from Eastern European countries, and I am just relying on that answer, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen got. Well, it was kind of sir. Joachim B. Olsen, who laid down the conditions for the question he asked, and there I just have to say that we are also getting answers that we are shouting. That's the way it is. I do not believe that this is a particularly good business for Denmark, and whether it was or not, in the best of all worlds it would be such that in Denmark, if we could choose who came to Denmark ourselves, then obviously would opt out of people who come to the Danish border with a sleeping bag under our arm with the aim of placing themselves in Ørstedsparken. Well, I guess we'd never accept that. We do not accept this either when it comes to countries outside the European Union. Well, we want people in here who are, to some extent, qualified. Then there is a disagreement among the parties of the Folketing about how qualified you should be and how high a salary you should be able to have etc., but there is after all agreement on that I think at least that you do not want to receive the Kenyan who comes with the sleeping bag under your arm. Why, then, should it not be the same for the Roma who come with the sleeping bag under her arm?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133355	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133357	That is what I was trying to say, in other words, that we should be working on the disadvantages of the free movement of workers, rather than saying that, because we have some gypsies in Denmark, some Kenyans or some others, we should completely abolish the possibility that labour in Europe can go to the places where it is most needed, which makes the economy very useful, because the fact that labour can be employed where it is most needed also makes it possible to get a higher return. So may I conclude from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's answer here is that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth does not believe that there are no advantages in the free movement of workers, but that there is really no justification for that attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133445	Yes, but the water divides between Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and myself, despite the fact that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov otherwise describes himself as an EU sceptic in a timely and premature manner. I believe that Denmark will benefit best from having its own hands in hand with who comes to the country, and Mr. Rasmus Jarlov believes that Denmark benefits best from the fact that it is the EU that decides who has the right to come to Denmark and under what conditions. I just have to say that I disagree with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov in, and if it is the case that the government is going to attack this problem more offensively, then the government is totally free to do so. So far, it seems to me that the government's success criterion here is that you can get through with an indexing of the children's cheque, and I just want to say that it is of course good, but that it is also poor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133532	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we are ready to move forward, and that is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118133552	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, too, for calling this question debate, which we have been looking forward to very much. Fortunately, it has become the case that we in the Folketing discuss these very, very important issues not only rarely, but very, very often. First of all, I think it is important to say that in this question debate and also in the call, it could have been included that this is not just about the free movement of workers. Because the rules on foreign labour in Denmark are equally concerned with the free movement of services, and they are equally concerned with the free movement of capital. However, it is also important for me to stress that it is beyond doubt that the internal market and the freedoms that lie in it have given Denmark enormous opportunities to meet its growth and export potential. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party at the time fought hard to get Denmark with us. We know that 21%. of total employment in Denmark is directly linked to Denmark's membership of the internal market and our gross domestic product is estimated to be 5%. higher than if we'd been outside. For the individual LO family, this means an additional income of DKK 65,000. a year, that we're in it. This is indisputably an advantage for Denmark as a whole. On the other hand, and this is also what today's question debate concerns more specifically, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that the primacy of free movement over all other principles of EU law creates major problems for employees, especially in those countries where there are higher wages and better working conditions. The imbalance must be found in the very heart of the Treaties and in EU law, and this is not a problem that we have in Denmark alone. Right must be right, there are very few problems today with European employees who, through the principle of free movement of workers, come to Denmark to work and settle and at the same time pay their taxes. In most cases, migrant workers are covered by proper pay and working conditions. On the other hand, it is in the rules and regulation of the free movement of services and capital that major problems really arise with social dumping. The downward pressure on wages, working conditions and labour rights experienced in a large number of EU countries over these years can ultimately only be dealt with at the heart of the rules. That is why we indicated earlier in this Assembly in a debate on the social protocol that this is a model we are working on on on the long and very long track. Because we are not under any illusion that this is something that is going to happen tomorrow. It is also important to emphasise what the social protocol is really about. It does not form the basis for EU coordination of welfare services in the EU. Instead, it is a safeguard for existing workers' rights in the Member States. The principle is simple: In Denmark you have to work for a Danish salary and on Danish terms. Social democracy is therefore working for a social protocol that can serve as a protection for employees' rights in the long run. In the short and medium term, unclear rules and poor enforcement constitute a huge obstacle in the fight against social dumping. The posting of foreign workers, the increasing use of temporary employment agencies, letterbox companies, regular shopping and the lack of responsibility for subcontractors and subcontractors are pushing certain groups into the labour market into pay and into worse working conditions. It is therefore our intention that, both in the short and medium term, we should work to ensure that the rules on posting actually apply the principle of the same pay for the same work in the same place. In the review that is taking place right now, we have come a little bit, but we are not entirely in the end. The measures we are working on in the short term are: the freedom of companies to establish themselves throughout the Union is being pursued with a harder course towards regular shopping, letterbox companies and zero-hour contracts. That the EU's latest decisions allowing the introduction of chain liability also in Denmark become a valid principle, not by law, but by joint agreements between the social partners. That the European Union, particularly in the transport sector, closes the gaps that create unfair competition between the companies offering proper conditions and those who do not. That the EU supports the Member States in spreading a greater organisation of the labour market. That in future Member States can ensure effective enforcement and control of labour market conditions. On the very long track, as we have already indicated, we are working towards a better balance between the fundamental rights, wages and working conditions of employees and the EU Treaties. Against this background, I have to read out a proposal for adoption by my own party, the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives, the SF, the Alternative and Radicals, and this is how it says: "The Danish Parliament notes that the EU's internal market and the EU rules on free movement have created growth and employment in the EU and Denmark. It is the view of the Folketing that freedom of movement must also be fair movement. The Folketing does not believe that economic rights in the EU should undermine the rights of workers. Parliament considers it essential that there should be no social dumping in the EU and that the Member States and the social partners should have the necessary room for manoeuvre to combat social dumping at national level. Parliament therefore calls on the government to work to ensure that in the negotiations on the accession of new EU countries, rules are agreed that allow transitional rules for the free movement of workers for up to seven years. As in previous practice. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government continues to work to create support for indexing child and young people's benefits in the proposal to amend Regulation 883, and the Government will oppose the proposal to extend the export period for unemployment benefit to other countries. - - - - - - - - - - - - Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134135	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few questions, but now this proposal is also included in the negotiations. The first question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134145	On 25 November 2016, I was about to fall off my chair, because I was actually reading an article in the Berlingske Tidende, where the headline was: Social Democrats will be EU skeptical. Then it was followed by the sentence: "It's all on the moon. Then I thought it might be, that is, the fact that the Socialists wanted to be EU-sceptic, who was all over the moon. But it wasn't. It was Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, who among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on what should be done about the free movement of workers. Since there is at least 21⁄2 months, to Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen will speak on something again, I'm gonna have to ask Mr. Sass Larsen. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen on what Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen thinks about it. Sir. For Henrik Sass Larsen said this: "... It is reasonable that you can get a job in another country and apply for a job freely in the EU.• So far as I am concerned, however, that you can travel freely as day owners and beggars, or what you do without a permanent job, I am not in favour of that. I don't. I have indicated a way to avoid it. What's sir? Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's path to fulfilling the promise made by Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen has given to the Danes that day owners and beggars should not be able to use the rules on the free movement of workers to come to Denmark and seek work for 6, perhaps 12 months at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134302	There are several things in this. After all, I myself have been accused of becoming much more EU-sceptic. For my sake, people have to call what they want. As far as I am concerned, it is a question of the Social Democratic Party, fortunately, and I would also like to say: after a little too many years of not having taken critical views, has also begun to take political critical views on some of the policies pursued. Some feel that we have become much more sceptical and much more critical. I believe that we are doing the European Union a favour and are moving things in the right direction. I don't know if it's, like, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen said in November 2016, qualifying as a promise. But I kind of agree with him. That is one of the reasons why the Social Democracy was also part of the legislation which was intended to prevent many of the beggars that we saw back in the summer in a very large way. In the past, we have also indicated that those rules should, of course, be addressed in the Residence Directive. So I don't know if we disagree so much. I don't really think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134416	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134418	But it just seems to me, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is in symptom treatment. Instead of dealing with the disease, which is the free movement of labour, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen the symptoms in different ways. I'm not sure that's the right way to do this. One of those things, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen points out that this is a common European minimum wage, as Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen declares himself a supporter. Is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also supports a common European minimum wage?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134452	We are not in favour of a statutory European minimum wage. We have our labour market model in Denmark, which we will go a long way towards safeguarding, most of all because we have seen that the labour market model we have has been a really, really strong tool to ensure that the growth and employment that we create is actually distributed in a proper way. On the other hand, when you look at the European picture, you can see that there are a large number of other countries which already have labour markets, where wage and working conditions are regulated much more by law, and there you can imagine that in the future it may be a model for them to use. In Denmark, I would argue for this, and one can already choose to do so now, of course, one can generalise the agreements that are negotiated in the private sector etc. Your Honor, I'm sorry. In other words, it would be a way of ensuring that migrant workers who actually come will have to work on those working conditions. At least it's an idea. We have not adopted a specific model, because we have no plans at present for a fixed, common European minimum wage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134603	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134604	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur, who said a great many things, with which I very much agree. I was particularly pleased that it was just pointed out that this is not just about the free movement of workers and the rules governing it; it is also about the free movement of services, the free movement of capital, too, for that matter, in many environmental and consumer issues, where the rapporteur is quite right to say that the problem is that these economic freedoms, as they are called, have taken precedence over employees' rights and consumer protection, etc. I think that is important to include in this debate. I am therefore a little surprised that I had to listen in vain because I could not hear that the proposal for a social protocol is part of the proposal for adoption made with the other parties. And I am a little curious to see that, even when the rapporteur says that the social protocol is something we are working for in the very long term. What does that mean? And is it not the fact that we have not, as it were, insisted on something that we have otherwise found to be agreed on, that the social protocol is such a long way off that it is certainly not something we are working for today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134719	No, I do not think that can be concluded. After all, we had the debate on exactly the social protocol in connection with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Beyer de Ryke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Finn Sørensen himself recently put forward. But we also have to be realistic. In other words, there is no current support in the European Member States for making an additional protocol to the Treaties which tells us or which elaborates on what is really meant in the Treaty of Lisbon by a social market economy and social progress, etc., which is, of course, what must ensure this protection. But that's what we're working for. We have a dialogue with our Nordic partners, both the Nordic trade union movement and the Nordic social democracies. We have a dialogue with the SPD in Germany and similar parties in many other places about these things. But I just think that a completely sobering statement must be that it is not just around the corner, just as Enhedslisten's work towards tearing down the whole of the European Union and replacing it with something else is not just around the corner either. I've seen that sir. Pelle Dragsted has said it should be called European Solidarity. That is not the case either. I think that is even far further in the future than a possible social protocol.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134828	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118134829	Thank you. We can argue about the wording, but I have not tried to tell anyone that the implementation of a social protocol was just around the corner. This requires unanimity, so for that reason alone we need to have a realistic description of what needs to be done. However, the first condition for the discussion among the Member States of the European Union on the need for such a social protocol is, of course, that there is a Member State making the request. I think the rapporteur agrees with that, and I also think the rapporteur knows very well that part of voting for the proposal is to work for it. So it is just that I am asking: what was more natural than trying to push the government and the other parties with which a joint decision has now been made to support the proposal? For some it is superfluous because the SF and the alternative and the Radicals have agreed to the social protocol. So why has not one stood firm and said to the government: we must have it included in the adoption? Furthermore, there is reason to do so when, in fact, the adoption is proceeding in a rather cautious way, as Mr President-in-Office of the Council did in fact. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen and I wish. And I have also noted with pleasure that there is a recognition, because it says something about economic freedoms not being allowed to impose employee rights. The problem is that they do. But it is a small step along the way that we agree that they must not. And what was so more natural as part of the work for a social protocol than to say to the other parties in the Folketing: that is also a natural consequence of the recognition that economic freedoms have taken precedence. So why hasn't one stood firm on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135005	Well, sir. Finn Sørensen really answers the question he asks me. Because the reason why it has not ended up in the adoption is that the prerequisite for a Member State to be able to make this demand to the other Member States is that there is also a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament that this is a requirement that we must make. At least I think so; we think so in the Social Democratic Party. An important step on this journey is that we are now in the process of adopting a text which, if people vote otherwise, which they have at least indicated so far in the debate, means that we have made a good deal of progress, both by stating that there should be no social dumping in the European Union, that we should have the necessary opportunities at national level to combat social dumping, and that, like Mr Tugendhat, there should be no social dumping in the European Union. Finn Sørensen himself says, also in this text of adoption, that economic rights should not undermine workers' rights. And I think that is an important step on the journey which I realistically believe is a good way forward. I don't know if I'll call it a very long time, but at least a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135113	We can thus thank the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left who is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135136	Thank you. I have to admit that it has been difficult to prepare the rapporteur's speech for today, because normally the Danish People's Party bothers at least to specify which specific parts of the government's EU policy they are unhappy with, but today it has just gone under the collective term the negative consequences of free movement. I must therefore also deplore in advance if I do not go into all the areas that the Danish People's Party intended. But hopefully we will be able to clarify this in the subsequent debate. The free movement of workers is a core value in the EU, and it has enormous value for Denmark, for Danish companies and for the Danish economy. Denmark has great benefit from the Danes who travel out into the world, collects experiences and comes home with fresh ideas, but at least as important is the foreign labour force that comes to Denmark, not least for Danish agriculture. At a time when our companies are busy and filled with order books, the foreign EU labour force is contributing to the economic recovery of both flight altitude and flight length. Before Christmas, I received a number of committee replies from the Ministry of Finance, among them the Ministry of Finance. The total foreign labour supply is estimated at 21 billion. kr. to the general government balance and that is the net figure. The labour force from the EU-28 countries accounts for just over half, which is equivalent to 13 billion. kr. In other words, freedom of movement is a very good business for Denmark. As in all areas, we must, of course, ensure that freedom of movement takes place within a reasonable framework, and this is a task which the government is constantly trying to undertake. This summer we adopted, and that was among other things. together with the Danish People's Party, for example, an increase in the penalty for what, in the absence of better words, we called insecure begging. The sharpening should then address the challenge, that is, that there are some people who abuse the freedom of movement to come to Denmark without having a place to live and without having a job and who instead camp various public places and create insecurity. And if you go for a walk in the streets of Copenhagen, you can see that the law has worked. They're practically gone. So freedom of movement is, of course, about the free movement of labour and not about everything else, and the government upholds that principle. In addition, we are also constantly working on the fact that free movement should not lead to unfair features on Danish welfare benefits. In practical terms, we would like to see us, among other things. was given the opportunity to index the children's cheque to correspond to the level of expenditure in the country from which the EU citizen comes. It is, moreover, an effort which is supported by countries such as the Netherlands, Germany, Ireland and Austria. And even though the Commission is for the time being taking a stand on this issue, we are, of course, continuing our work. In other words, I think we have a government that is doing quite a lot and that was a praise to the government, Mr. Minister of Justice to deal with the negative consequences of freedom of movement. In the question, the Danish People's Party also asks: What about the accession of the countries to the Western Balkans? Once again, I have to say that it has probably gone quite fast to have this request sent off. In any case, one gets formulated in such a way that the reader could easily get the impression that the countries of the Western Balkans are on the threshold of becoming members, and the Danish People's Party knows just as well as I am not. On the contrary, all current candidates for EU membership have a very long way to go. For the Left, it is, of course, also a crucial principle that membership of the European Union is not something that any country is entitled to, but it is something that one can work to earn. We insist that the outcome of the negotiations is by no means pre-emptive. It depends on the ability and willingness of the countries to assume the obligations of membership and the European values. And, ultimately, the EU's own ability to admit new members must also be taken into account. Whether or not the Western Balkan countries will succeed in the future, I will refrain from prophesying. I hope so, but we'll see about that. If that is the case, the Left will, of course, work to ensure that in the accession negotiations of new countries some rules are agreed which will allow transitional provisions to be introduced for the free movement of workers for up to seven years. This was also the case last time we enlarged the European Union. That's probably a very reasonable rule. I hope that this is in one way or another what the Danish People's Party had in mind with today's debate, otherwise, as I said, I am available for follow-up questions, and I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135634	Thank you. There's one of them coming here, and it's from Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135640	Thank you. Numbers are sometimes a grateful size. Well, since these numbers that I referred to before that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen had gotten, came forward, it was after all the figures showed that it cost Denmark 500 million. kr. to have these people. Then came, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned this report • Net contribution of immigrants to the public finances, which went through the year 2014, but which came last year • which showed that now they suddenly gave an income of 600 million. kr. Then questions were asked about the methods of calculation, and if the methods of calculation had been maintained, as Mr. Bjarne Corydon had used, yes, the case was that it made a deficit of 200 million. kr. So you just have to say that numbers are a thankful size and that it depends a lot on what you put in them. What I really wanted to ask, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen on, is whether the Left can be satisfied that the current rules give EU citizens the right to 123 welfare benefits in Denmark. Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that's positive?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135751	But numbers are what we have to work with, and 123 is also a number. I haven't gone through them, but I guess there's nothing unnatural about the fact that when you work somewhere, you have some rights, and then you have some duties. For example, you also pay taxes, and in Denmark we have arranged ourselves in such a way that you pay some taxes, and that means, for example, that you can go to the hospital. If you, as an EU citizen, were not to be able to go to hospital when you were working in Denmark, then surely you should also have some reduction in your tax payment. So there is a connection between rights and duties. And in the same way, when a Dane goes out. So, it is as if for the Danish People's Party alone it is a picture that it is pouring in with all sorts of foreigners across the Danish borders, coming and taking a lot of work from us, and as if the Danish People's Party completely forgets the labor that goes the other way, and the Danish People's Party completely forgets that if there were no companies that would hire the labour that came from the other EU countries, then they didn't come. So, what should we say to Danish agriculture? There are no more Danes picking strawberries, and what are we going to do? Let's just leave the strawberries and rot and so on.? In other words, of course, there must be reasonableness, but the reasonableness is also that obligations belong to rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118135929	Yes, I think I can agree with the rapporteur that, in general terms, the opportunities available for public services in Denmark and the benefits available are probably a little more lucrative than those known from Poland and Romania. I think you can go that far. But I just find it interesting that the rapporteur is not at all concerned with the fact that there are 123 benefits to which they are entitled. Now we cannot make a filibuster here in Parliament, because otherwise I could read them all out, but it is crazy that there are 123 services in this country that you are entitled to if you are an EU citizen. And you can't be enthusiastic about that as a Leftman.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140019	Surely we can discuss the number of benefits and, above all, the size of them. That's not what the Danish People's Party used to be so excited about, not anymore. It was the good old Danish People's Party, but now you are almost overtaking the Social Democracy on that point. But we can go over them. I understand that we can make a little study circle. I'll put coffee over, and then let's take a look at them. But basically, when you work and pay taxes, you have the rights that come with being a worker. It cannot be the case that some people have to pay a tax, but then they do not get the other thing that goes with it, so it cannot be the case that we say that their children have to pay to go to school, that they have to pay to go to the hospital, etc. After all, the piano doesn't play like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140106	With that, we thank the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140116	Thank you. After all, the debate is very much about what the main problem really is. And in the view of Enhedslisten, the main problem with free movement is not that European workers have the opportunity to look for work here in Denmark or that Danish workers have the opportunity to look for work in other European countries. On the contrary, it is a fine thing. And although we strongly disagree with the EU rules, which are the basis for the opportunities for welfare benefits, they are not in themselves the main problem, that is to say that foreign workers in this country can obtain the right to welfare benefits and some social security. Try to imagine, or rather, one should try to imagine, for I must not address members directly, a situation in which foreign workers and that is how the Danish People's Party's prescription could not obtain rights to the same welfare benefits as resident workers. What would be the result? It would be that what everyone says will be avoided, namely social dumping, would explode completely. Because we would have a large group of foreign workers who had no social security and who would therefore be falsified to take any job under any circumstances. No, the main problem is what the Social Democrat rapporteur said it was and, as Enhedslisten has said for many years, it was. However, as the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, stated in a chronicle last summer, the problem is that economic freedoms, in other words the right to free movement of labour, goods, services and capital, have taken precedence over everything else. And with everything else the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party believes, and so does Enhedslisten, employees' rights, environmental protection, consumer protection, etc. We have come into a situation where economic freedoms, not always and not all the time, but in crucial situations, override the rights of employees and the protection of consumers and citizens. That is the main problem, and that is what needs to be addressed. When we talk about social dumping, the problem is that we have been severely restricted in our ability to ensure that foreign workers who come here work on equal terms with those who already live here. That is what we must ensure. The fact that we have greatly reduced our ability to rectify what we call social dumping, wage dumping and all sorts of other things is, after all, that Denmark, by virtue of the rules of the internal market, cannot freely determine the conditions under which foreign workers should work in this country; that we cannot ensure when employers import labour, what they do on a large scale by calling directly to the temporary employment agencies, even foreign temporary employment agencies, who can get some cheap labour imported, that that labour is here on equal terms. That is what we need to do. We can do a lot nationally. We can tighten up the use of working clauses, in other words the requirement that public authorities require wage and working conditions to follow representative agreements in this country. We can even impose a mandatory requirement that all public authorities should use those working clauses. We can introduce general legislation on chain liability. We can make it clear that companies in this country, which have some job vacancies, must look them up at Jobnet.dk, so that all the unemployed we already have at home will have the opportunity to offer the jobs. We can introduce ID cards on construction sites and in other vulnerable industries. We have some national gambling opportunities which, in the view of the Enhedslisten, we have not exploited well enough. But we also need to change EU rules, and that is where the demand for a social protocol comes in and a change to the Posting of Workers Directive, so that we can be allowed to make the same demands on the posted companies as on Danish companies; that we can have the right to demand that you have a contract of employment approved by the trade union that has the agreement as a condition for being able to work in Denmark. And there are a large number of other EU rules that we also need to work on. That's kind of what we need to focus on here in the Folketing. And that's why I'm gonna finish off with a little bit of time, but I hope it goes well to read up the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption. And when you hear and see it, it will be noted that there is in fact only one difference from what a number of other parties have put themselves behind it, and that is that we are quite explicitly saying that we are calling on the government to work for a social protocol as proposed by the European trade union movement. Because if you have recognised that economic freedoms impose employee rights, you also have to raise that requirement. So I actually think I will just read out the first paragraph because, by the way, the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen read. And the first paragraph reads as follows: Proposals for adoption It is the view of the Folketing that freedom of movement must also be fair movement. The Folketing considers that economic rights in the EU should not undermine workers' rights and therefore calls on the government to work for a social protocol as proposed by the European trade union movement..... V 26).
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140708	Thank you. I'm happy, sir. Finn Sørensen says that it is actually possible to read out proposals for adoption in addition to its speaking time, so that was entirely according to the rules. There's a question, and it's from Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140724	Thank you. Enhedslisten paints a picture of reality that I don't recognize. The Enhedslisten is trying to turn social dumping into a major, topical problem that the European Union is not doing anything about and that Denmark is not doing anything about, and I disagree with that. Which one of us is right? Now I get it, sir. Finn Sørensen would like us to have a planned economy in Denmark instead of a market economy, but we therefore have a market economy and the labour market is also a market, since Denmark is one of the countries in Europe that has the highest wages. If social dumping were then a problem of the size indicated by Enhedslisten, would there logically be a towering unemployment among Danish workers because they were undercut by workers from South and Eastern Europe, or how else are things related?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140826	If you do not think that social duming is a major problem, I do not understand why, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's party will, sign a statement which, in fact, is very much focused on it, among other things. the phrase: "The Parliament considers it essential that there is no social dumping in the EU and that the Member States and the social partners have the necessary room for manoeuvre to combat social dumping at national level. I guess you wouldn't write that if you didn't think it was a problem. And today we do not have the room to do that. So that's my first part of the answer. The second part of the answer is that there are now changes in the business cycle, but it was quite clear, and it can be documented with dry figures, that when the crisis broke through in 2008, up to 200,000 resident employees were fired. Within a short time after that, I didn't have the exact figure of many, many thousands of foreign employees, depending on when we set the year, and I didn't quite present that, but we were quickly over 100,000 foreign workers who were hired. And instead we got so about. 200,000 inhabited unemployed. So that problem is quite real.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140953	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118140956	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen is a trained politician and all respect for it and therefore also good at what else we can of tricks in here, such as strawmen, and what do I know. When did I say that I do not believe that social dumping is a major problem? The question is how big the problem is and how good we are at fighting it. I believe that we are fighting social dumping at both Danish and European level. But I also asked a question, and I did not get an answer to that question. The question is: how can it be logical that Denmark has high wages and, at the same time, low unemployment, if we do nothing to combat social dumping, and if people can just come in and take jobs as day owners for no money, and what do I know, and outbid Danish labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141052	It is not so difficult to illustrate what the problem is. The latest labour survey doesn't hang me in the decimal point... shows about 170,000 unemployed, but it has been reported here from the platform today that the number of foreign workers in this country has increased significantly, and that is correct, and that we are far on the other side of 100,000. It is in itself an illustration of the problem, i.e. that Danish companies import large-scale foreign labour while at the same time we have thousands of unemployed people at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141131	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141135	Thank you. I just want to start by saying that I actually have a lot of respect for a part of Mr. Finn Sørensen's approach: much of what is being said from the platform and also to the questions of having a desire to reform the European Union. And so, allow me to go a tiny bit beyond what the theme of the question is today. Because I am confused at a higher level, and I hope that Mr. Finn Sørensen can help me get less confused. What exactly is Enhedslisten's overall view of Danish membership of the EU? I have been informed by Enhedslisten's probably new leading candidate for the European Parliament that there is a desire to renegotiate Denmark's association with the European Union, which will then be sent to a referendum. But sir... Finn Sørensen does not answer me on how to provoke, how to bring about the renegotiation without asking for Article 50 to be triggered? You have to step out to renegotiate something, a little like the British have done. - Sir... Finn Sørensen doesn't answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141246	I think that depends on the situation in which the conditions for Danish membership are imposed. And we can quickly agree on that or I don't know if we can. But with the recognition that has been given to the Socialists, I believe that the Socialists must recognise that, on a very important point, these prerequisites have been broken. That is what is expressed in the recognition that economic freedoms have taken precedence over everything else, all the good. After all, it is a recognition that the conditions on which we entered the European Union in 1972 have been broken. Then the question is how to get into a negotiating position. I can't predict that in detail. However, an Intergovernmental Conference is an obvious opportunity for Member States to make their demands to the other countries. And this has actually been the case every time there has been a debate on Treaty changes. Then there are countries that make some demands, including Denmark, in line with the Edinburgh agreement, which we then disagreed about, but which at least reflected Denmark's demands for Danish membership of the European Union. After all, it is in itself a start to renegotiation that, at an Intergovernmental Conference, it is said that they and they and those things will have been fulfilled by the Enhedslisten in order to accept and nod yes to a treaty amendment. So that could be a way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141422	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141427	I understand. In other words, we are running the clock, there is an Intergovernmental Conference, and we are succeeding in some Treaty changes or adjustments to the Treaties, or whatever they are called, among other things. to have a social protocol introduced. But then I understand Enhedslisten's point of view that when it is fulfilled let us assume that the whole of the European Union has supported it, so that there is a better balance between employees' rights and EU law, we are all happy, or at least some of us • The Enhedslisten will nevertheless then have a referendum on Danish membership of the European Union. Is that correctly understood and for what purpose? So, what would the Enhedslisten recommend in that referendum? Will it then recommend that we vote in favour of continued membership with a social protocol to the EU Treaties, or would it recommend that we resign? I sometimes think that the Enhedslisten really insinuates this to its constituents when I hear their communication about the European Union. Or maybe you're standing between two chairs? And that's why I'm confused.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141526	If the rapporteur looks at such general practice in political negotiations, the rapporteur will know that, when you know it, how to deal with a possible outcome of negotiations will emerge. It's as simple as that. I cannot stand and say today how Enhedslisten will stand in a completely thought situation where we do not even know the result. We have just described the process, which then differs somewhat from the way the British dealt with it, one might say. This is the process that we believe should be set in motion in relation to Denmark's relationship with the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141607	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141612	I have to say that I am quite confused when I hear Mr. Finn Sørensen describes the policy of Enhedslisten here. I have to say. There is, then, a difference between renegotiating on the basis of a desire to reform the European Union from within or with a view to getting out of the European Union. These are two very different things, and that is why it is very relevant to include the question of Article 50, i.e. whether it is the one that you want to use in this context. And when sir... Finn Sørensen compares with an Intergovernmental Conference and Treaty changes, I would say that this is something completely different from wanting to leave the European Union. I think that the Enhedslisten's European policy is deeply, deeply confusing. You sit between all the chairs you can sit between, I have to say. And that is why there is a need for clarity as to whether the Enhedslist will leave the EU or whether the Enhedslist will reform the EU from within.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141715	I think what the rapporteur may be confused about, and also a little irritated about, is that I am describing a very concrete, practical way of tackling this issue. For what we want to negotiate is, of course, Denmark's conditions in membership. There we will have a broad, popular discussion in the Danish people on the basis of what will it be? We will take the initiative when we have the power and the opportunity to do so, and we will also do so ourselves, and we have already done so in some headlines, say what Enhedslisten thinks should be renegotiated. When that debate is over it may also be, it never gets started, what do I know we want the Danish people to have the opportunity to relate to it. It's the process in its simplicity, and it can't be that bad from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141834	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141837	No, not at all. As I hear it described here, it kind of sounds okay. It may be a little strange that you want to have such a big discussion, but there is a big difference between whether you want to have a big, popular discussion with a view to having a new treaty and a treaty amendment, or whether you want it to have it in order to get Denmark out of the EU. There is then a world of difference between the two things. There I think the Danish people are entitled to know what is Enhedslisten's goal with this: Is it to have a better EU? Is it to meet Enhedslisten's requirements and Danish requirements to a greater extent? it can be through Treaty changes, it can be through various other things such as. A social protocol that we are discussing here today? Or are we supposed to get out of the European Union? I think there are no answers to that from the Enhedslisten, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118141934	But whether it will be one thing or another is determined by the way that process is going, and that is why we must have a referendum when such a debate is over. If so, everyone will be able to decide whether this is satisfactory; whether we have ensured the interests of the Danish people when it comes to consumer protection, environmental protection, social dumping, etc. Or do we find ourselves in a situation where we would recommend the Danish people to resign? There are several exits in that process. All we do is to take stock of the fact that there is a clear majority in the Danish population in order to be in the European Union, so we just choose to raise the discussion in the way I outline.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142046	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142051	Just so I understand it too, because I have also had some doubts about what exactly it is: is what you want to negotiate, is that you want to create this social protocol, that is to say negotiate as an EU, or do you want to negotiate what a resignation from Denmark will mean, and is that what we are going to have to vote on? That is what I have some doubts about. What kind of negotiation do we think we should start? Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen asked about this very thing with the social protocol. If it were a reality, if we now, through good political work, convinced the other countries that this was a good idea, then there is also a need for these negotiations that we should go out and put it to the vote, or where is the point?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142141	I am very pleased about this question, because it gives me the opportunity to explain something that may be politically self-evident, namely that we are working on several levels and on several issues. If you manage to read the motion for a resolution on this social protocol that we are promoting, you will see that the proposal and the fight for it are not, of course, about the withdrawal of the European Union. It is about the fact that we want to change the basis of the Treaty, so to speak, or the interpretation of the Treaty, if we are to remain in the proposal put forward by the European trade union movement. That's what this fight is about. Alongside that, of course, the Enhedslisten has an overall view of the European Union and the future of the European Union and how we should organise ourselves in Europe. In other words, one of the requirements may well be more extensive changes to EU structures in relation to the other process, or whatever. After all, we have not brought this discussion to an end, but have only outlined a start. So I hope it is clear that you can work on more than one level. I think that is very common for political parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142252	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142256	Yes, it is. There are some priorities, of course. To go into the work on the social protocol, I know I have nothing to do with a possible withdrawal debate on the part of the Enhedslisten. But where is the priority? At the same time as we work politically through our political colleagues all over Europe on a social protocol, do we also want to have these opt-out negotiations? I think that is very uncertain. Because, of course, you can work on several things. Is that what you want? Do you want to work in parallel on that? Do you want these withdrawal negotiations to begin, or what is it you want to start?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142338	After all, I have not used the word 'disappearance negotiations' on that track. It is a clue that is about renegotiating Denmark's terms of membership of the European Union. This is a wide-ranging discussion. We have only outlined it in some headlines, and I have stood here and described a possible process and a possible opportunity to take that discussion. In addition to that, we have a very specific task, which is to try to stem social dumping. We must try to ensure that employees' rights take precedence over economic freedoms. And there we are just very happy and satisfied that we have made a good step forward, according to the latest discussion on our resolution, where it turns out that all parties in the opposition have been able to join in on it. Of course, they have, knowing that this is not about resignation. Because then they wouldn't have joined, I know that. But I am just glad that we have come to a common realization, and we will, of course, work on it and see how far we can go with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142439	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118142453	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising a really important debate, namely that on the free movement of workers. That labour can flow across national borders has many positive effects and benefits Danish citizens and companies. Many Danes benefit from the fact that you can go to another country and find a job. Companies benefit from being able to find labour from other countries so that they can hire the people they need. The fact that workers can move across national borders contributes greatly to the creation of growth and prosperity. Unfortunately, we have to note that several parties are very concerned about cutting off companies from hiring the labour they need by restricting people from other countries in the opportunity to come to Denmark and work. For example, you have. clearly seen, by a majority of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, for example, increased the threshold for foreigners, so that it becomes more difficult for Danish companies to recruit the labour they need. This leaves a real and concrete problem for Danish companies and therefore for all Danes, and it is very regrettable that a majority in the Danish Parliament does not take greater responsibility for finding solutions. It is crucial that we can attract the talented Indian IT engineer or programmer, which is now limited in the possibility of working in Denmark. By implementing actions such as these, Denmark misses both hands and knowledge, which is all the way on the Moon at a time when Danish companies seriously need labour. If companies are limited in their ability to recruit the employee they need, we are hampering the possibility of creating growth in Denmark, and with less growth the Danish society will be less prosperous. It sometimes seems that the majority who are concerned about hampering access for foreign workers to Denmark has forgotten an important point: that it is actually necessary for companies to have employees if they are to be able to supply a product. When there is the majority in the Folketing that makes it harder for companies to recruit internationally, it is good that we have the European Union and the free movement of workers. I have often heard the argument in debates on the subject: why should we be able to recruit an Indian or one from Ukraine when we have 500 million Europeans to recruit from? Why don't you hire one from Spain? That's the recommendation. That is why it is a little bit bizarre and a little bit bizarre or very contradictory that the free movement of labour in Europe is now also being problematized here today. The accession of the countries of the Western Balkans takes place, as the Minister explained, neither tomorrow nor next week. That is why I or the Liberal Alliance are not at all worried about this either. I am, in fact, more concerned about the political majority here in the Folketing, which is problematizing the good thing that we can recruit across national borders. For the consequences of this attitude are more concrete and topical than the possible future accession of new countries to the EU The free movement of labour is at the heart of all EU cooperation on the internal market. And it is precisely the internal market that has helped to increase trade between EU countries from 800 billion. EUR 3.110 billion in 1992. EUR in 2016. Throughout history, free trade has proved to be a safe and stable path to greater growth and prosperity, also in Denmark. Today we see signs that Denmark and the Danish economy are experiencing an economic recovery. It's gratifying. Danish companies, however, cry out on guard because they cannot fill the vacant positions they have. More labour is needed. This applies both to highly specialised jobs, but it also applies to services in tourism, for example. Without sufficient hands and knowledge, Danish companies are lagging behind and risk that in the long term they will have to close or move in whole or in part to other countries where the recruitment basis better matches their needs. In the short term, however, the situation is also serious. Because in the current economic situation, labour shortages can be a powerful factor in overheating the Danish economy. There is no point in transferring responsibility here. Labour from other countries is part of the solution to the challenges that Danish companies face, but of course not the whole solution. Of course. That is why we must continue to work to ensure that Danes who are outside the labour market enter the labour market. Here the government continues to make a great effort, for there are many thousands of Danes who are currently on transfer income of different kinds, even if they should be on the labour market. There are several instruments to screw on. Honey, for example, isn't it? One of them. Finally, let me make it clear that we in the Liberal Alliance are opposed to linking the right to work with the right to social benefits. This is a matter that I know the government is concerned with and is working hard for in relevant negotiations on Regulation 883. At the same time, we should not forget that the overall calculation of EU citizens' efforts in the Danish labour market is clearly positive for Denmark. If we did not have the free movement of labour, we would be facing serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143043	There is a request for one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143050	Thank you. The latter is not as clear as Mrs Christina Egelund indicates. I mentioned to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that these numbers are pretty grateful, and you can conjure with them, so there'll be a difference of 800 million. kr., depending on the circumstances. So I think we should keep the cadence down a little bit. This was not a particularly EU-sceptic speech made by Mrs Christina Egelund, and I am now in doubt as to whether the Liberal Alliance still sees itself as an EU-sceptic party. I don't think so, but perhaps Mrs. Christina Egelund can, among other things. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, I'm gonna ask you about those welfare benefits. What considerations does Mrs Christina Egelund make quite specific about disposing of some of the 123 welfare benefits that Eastern Europeans and other EU citizens are entitled to if they come to Denmark? Surely that hurts the heart of a liberal; it did not in Mr. Jan E. Jørgensens, but it must hurt the heart of such a real liberal as Mrs Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143201	Thank you. There were several things that I think deserve a comment. To this point, whether the figures are correct or not, I would like to say that the figures that came from the Ministry of Finance on what the calculation looks like are not going to be wrong by the fact that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says they're wrong. Then Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth on whether the Liberal Alliance is still away is such an EU-sceptic party, and to that I have to say that we are and have always been sceptical about socialism, social democratic policy, regardless of whether it is implemented in a municipality, in a region, here in the Folketing or in the European Union, and that is what we have been sceptical about, that is, the policy pursued in the European Union. We have also been sceptical about the fact that, in some stages, the principle of subsidiarity has been flouted, for example. We believe that decisions are best taken when they are taken close to the citizens, but I am not skeptical of the fact that we must of course work together in Europe for a second. As far as social benefits are concerned, the questioner knows the position of the Liberal Alliance quite well. We are opposed to that, too, in my speech I said that the right to work is linked to the right to social benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143312	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143315	And how will Mrs Christina Egelund change that? I would like to know, for I do not think there were many offers. Then I just have to say for the record that I am not the one who is changing the figures of the Minister of Finance. The Minister for Finance has himself said that in the original calculation he delivered, I think it was in April, it made a profit, but if the same assumptions were included in the calculation as Mr. Bjarne Corydon, the former Minister of Finance, did, so suddenly it gave a deficit. And it says quite a bit that it is the prerequisites that you put into such a calculation that has an impact on what it is that comes out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143357	It is true that I did not respond very specifically to this with social benefits, and I am sorry about that. I think the questioner attaches a little more power to me than I really do, because the questioner asks what Mrs Christina Egelund is actually going to do about it, and the truth is that I am not a dictator in Brussels and cannot decide how this is going to happen. This is taking place in political negotiations, just as we are also negotiating results in this House, and the questioner knows very well that there are currently negotiations on this famous Regulation 883, among others. on the indexing of children's cheques, including: on the right to benefit, etc. The position of the Liberal Alliance is clear, and so is the position of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143432	Sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten for a short comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143436	Thank you. It is just to understand what the rapporteur is saying. In other words, I heard the rapporteur say that people are opposed to the link between work and employment and social benefits. What are the consequences? What does that mean in practice? Does this mean that foreign workers who come to this country should not be entitled to social benefits? It's possible I ask stupidly, but I just didn't understand that very general formulation at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143512	This means that I think it should be up to the individual Member State of the European Union to decide which social benefits, i.e. which welfare benefits it can be cash welfare benefits, it may also be other forms of benefits, for example. access to institutions, or what do I know you want to grant. So the interpretation of the free movement of workers must be carried out in each Member State; the decision on whether or not to do so. As a result, if you work in another EU country, you will be able to do so by the end of the year. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143550	Finn Sørensen for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143553	Okay, thanks for that. I understand. Then we must at least say that there are three parties in the Folketing who believe in principle that this should be the case. The three parties are then the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten. We then do not agree on • I am quite sure when we get to the finish line • what we have to decide in this regard. But at least we agree on the principle. But is the rapporteur aware that this is a very radical report, in the sense of far-reaching, which, if it is to be fully implemented, will surely require a complete break with the rules of the internal market and with the movement as such? Is that the realization of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143646	There is now nothing new in our position, and I have not said that decoupling the free movement of workers from the right to social benefits is a prerequisite for us to support the free movement of workers, because that is not the case. For there is no doubt that when you do the total calculation, not only in kroner and ear, but also in attitude, the free movement of workers is that you have the right to travel across national borders; you have an unconditional good economic perspective for Europe, not only for Denmark and not only for the individual who has that right, but overall for Europe. Then there are some adjustments, among others. on the issue of the right to social benefits, which we think is important, but that does not change our support for the free movement of workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143736	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118143745	Thank you. On top of this small debate following the speech by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, I understand that figures cannot be used for anything, because they can then be thrown into the head of each other and say that it is not true or that the other is true and that I can count much better than someone else can. So I would actually like to take up the question we are discussing a little more in principle and say: if we put aside the figures, what are we looking for? What kind of Europe do we want, and what kind of Europe do we want? I have to admit that I think that the whole premise of the proposers is wrong, in other words that freedom of movement is a bad thing. So, the whole premise of the debate we have today is that we have to stand up and defend something because it is basically completely wrong. The alternative does not think so. In fact, we believe that freedom of movement is a cornerstone of all EU cooperation. It is about us all having the right to move across borders, to take work, to fall in love, to move with someone, to stay for a while, to move somewhere else, to study. That is all the freedom of movement that we can travel around, and that is why it is so fundamental to the whole of EU cooperation, and we really must be careful about that. For that is the whole dimension that I think is so crucial for the European Union, which is not only about us getting richer together, but also about us getting richer mentally and culturally together. That is what this is about for me, that is, that we can actually move, that we can choose to take work, that we can choose to become smarter by good colleagues from other countries, that if we have a business, we can choose to get some really good people from Poland, from Portugal or from other countries up here and make ourselves smarter and more innovative, and we must therefore protect that, and we must safeguard that. Of course, everything is always challenging, and so is freedom of movement. There are some things you can say: okay, is there something here we can do better? That is what we started last year with the social pillar, and I would actually like to run through the 20 points in the social pillar quickly: education and lifelong learning, gender equality, equal opportunities, active employment support, safe and flexible employment, that is to say, the ability to get a decent job, a proper contract, that probation periods must not be forever; that is, wages; that is information on terms of employment and protection in the event of termination; that is to say, there must be an inclusive dialogue on social issues involving workers. It is a balance between working life and private life, that is to say there must be a proper balance there, it is a healthy, safe and well-adapted working environment and data protection for workers, it is that there must be proper childcare, it is social protection. It is about unemployment benefits, it is about people being entitled to a minimum income, that is to say that it is agreed, and it is of course different how we do it in the countries. It is also, of course, that older people who stop working also have the right to a life and therefore also an income, an old-age pension. It is healthcare, and that is that we have an inclusive labour market so that people with disabilities can also be part of it. This is about proper support for the homeless, and it is, of course, about access to basic services and long-term care. I was actually so happy when we started discussing these things because we are starting to address some of what is so crucial, i.e. how we are holding each other up, that we are actually treating our citizens properly and that we are making sure that we have proper social systems in each country. Because what you do in a community is also to stop each other from doing so. So I think we should work much more in that direction and look at it. There is an excellent resolution which we are discussing at the moment on a social protocol. This is the next step that I think is very good. But to think that nothing is being done at this stage, I think is quite wrong. Because we are doing a great deal together, and we can also do a great deal nationally in terms of making companies responsible and so on. We can do a lot of things already, as it is, and which isn't the big thing, that now we have to start discussing everything, and that everything is basically just bad. Because it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144231	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144237	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Perhaps I should just point out that you do not need to be a member of the European Union in order both to have opinions and to actually welcome foreign workers into your country. Hopefully, we will agree on that. It almost sounded like we gave up that opportunity if we resigned from the European Union. I hope the rapporteur will acknowledge that this does not have to be the case. It will, of course, have to be decided by the political majority of the country concerned to what extent foreign workers are invited in and under what conditions. But it is also basically very democratic and the right way to do it rather than what we have today, when it is actually the European Union that determines both scope and conditions. So that's one question. The second question - and I know that these are two large sums - relates to all the elements of the social pillar mentioned by the rapporteur. One might call it a kind of right, except that they do not have any binding legal validity, as it is today. Does the rapporteur think that all these things should be introduced by means of EU legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144347	The questioner says that it is up to the European Union to decide. But we are the European Union. This Parliament is dealing with these matters in the European Committee and we are giving a mandate to our government. So it is not something that the European Union, as some strange, incomprehensible size decides. This is something that we are helping to decide. That you can welcome workers from other countries, yes, I think so too. It was the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur who said where these limits are set for when people actually have to come. And there I am just glad that we have very close and binding cooperation in the European Union, where we are actually saying: well, we are making this a fundamental thing, that we have the right to travel, because then we are over this whole thing with having to sit and make all these special rules all the time and judge whether or not to make $350,000. or DKK 450,000, or what other large wages you need to be allowed to work in Denmark. So basically, it's us in here who help decide these things. In relation to whether all of these 20 points should be fully legally binding, I would say that these are the points on which agreement has been reached, and I think that is fine. Then we need to figure out how to implement it. Right now it is not legally binding. There is one way we have to measure each other, which we have to keep each other up, just as we do with the European Semester and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144511	Sir. Finn Sørensen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144515	Thank you. Of course, we can say that we are helping to decide, understood in the sense that we are sitting at the table, as they say. But the point is that it is not the Danish people who decide it, or the Danish Parliament that decides it. If it is the case that a qualified majority of the other countries will do things, then they will be implemented regardless of what the Danish Parliament says. That was the point of my question. The second question was very precise, I think. I asked: is it the rapporteur's view that all the elements that some call it rights should be implemented by EU legislation? And if the rapporteur is of the opinion, will the rapporteur acknowledge the fact that then we have moved one further step towards a European federal state?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144611	First of all, of course, we are deciding things here in the Folketing by a majority. It does not mean that the Folketing has not decided that I shall vote against if there is a majority in favour. And that is the same thing we have chosen in our democratic institutions in the European Union, which we can then have a long discussion about how we can improve and strengthen. If you are working on introducing social rights, yes, our cooperation will be closer. Whether it will be a federal government I cannot remember the word the questioner used, whether it was a federal government or what I do not think it will do if we start working on having social rights across borders. In fact, I think it is quite reasonable that the European Union should also have a strong, green and social dimension.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144657	Then there is no one else who has wanted to ask questions or to comment on Mr Seligman's report. Rasmus Nordqvist, so we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118144707	Thank you. We live in changing times, it must be said. It is also this discussion that we have, and that is why I too, like the previous rapporteur, would like to ask a little bit about it because it is a rather diffuse question, just to say what it is that is the crucial issue for me and for the Radical Left, and it is actually quite a matter of leaving a better society for our children than what we took over from our parents. It's very basic, but it's actually what this is all about for me. Well, what are we gonna do for a living? How are we gonna live together? And what about the rest of the world? After all, we are faced with fairly crucial choices. I think that we can see in Denmark, in Europe and, as such, in the United States too, and perhaps even in most of the world, that we can choose to conduct policies on fear or by having ambitions that are not based on the fear of it, because of course everyone has ambitions, but to a greater extent on what we can create for the future of our children. After all, the European Union must also be able to provide credible answers to this: what are we going to live on and how are we going to live together? I have been sitting in this Chamber thinking about what are the most important things that I, as a Dane and a European, believe we should have answers to and have as guiding points. There I thought back to President Clinton in the 1990s, who said: 'It's the economy, stupid', but now and here in Europe it is very much about it's the people, stupid, or it's about people, and there we have to be very clear. This debate has so far been about whether there are losers of globalisation. And that's what it does, isn't it? That is why we need cross-border political responses to some of the distorting problems that an unregulated global market brings with it. For me and the Radical Left, the European Union and the internal market are one of the best answers, because the internal market is precisely a regulated market, otherwise it would be anarchy. I am perhaps not so surprisingly proud of our own competition Commissioner, Mrs Margrethe Vestager, who, with enthusiasm, ensures that large companies operating globally comply with the rules we have adopted in the European Union, pay their taxes. It's fair, and it helps people. The second theorem, also inspired here by Clinton, is to say: It's education, stupid, or that education and exchange so widely understood and moving us across borders and meeting each other probably is one of the best answers to how we find conversation with each other across differences. Education communities build bridges across the divides, just as working communities across diversity are also a way to bridge some of the gaps created in these changing sides, bridges to be built on proper conditions, of course, regulated terms. And again, we need the European Union. That is why we in the Radical Left also support the work begun last year on the social pillar. This is a sensible step in the development of the European Union. This must, of course, help to promote fair and decent conditions for everyone. Then I was also trying to imagine the Europe that the Danish People's Party is suggesting with this question and with the rapporteur's speech, and at least it is a Europe, one must understand where, as EU citizens, we can no longer seek jobs in other EU countries under regulated conditions, common regulated conditions. It is a Europe and a Denmark in which companies have to live with the fact that in Denmark there is Mr. Martin Henriksen's words are the people who are. I don't know if DF will come to Danish companies at the slaughterhouses, at the horticulture, at the windmill plants, yes, at the hospitals for that matter. These are good Danish companies and public welfare institutions, which are naturally part of the internal market and also their employees. And yes, that goes for the hospitals too. And thank you to those who come here and contribute, because without them we would be poor. Then they had to run even faster out there. The DF's rapporteur mentioned that he believes that it is poor that the government will only, I presume, work to index the children's cheque. I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is poor to imagine that Denmark should be a country that should live exclusively on our own and exclusively on those people who have been born here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118145316	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118145337	After all, this debate raises a number of fundamental issues and indicates that we are facing some fundamental challenges with EU cooperation. On the one hand, we have an internal market for goods, services, capital and labour, and this has been an important part of EU cooperation. But it must also be said that it is important, and it also happens, that there is ongoing discussion about how we regulate the internal market, so environmental considerations and consumer interests, etc. is given a higher priority. On the other hand, we are also faced with the fact that this internal market operates in cooperation between nation states which have very different conditions. There are different economic conditions, there are different political conditions, there are different conditions for how to build welfare societies, for example. In some places you have user charges, in others you have a universal welfare model with free services. There are different conditions with regard to labour markets and how they are linked together, there are different conditions for how strong the trade unions are in the different countries. In other words, the fact that there is an internal market that operates between such different nation states raises very specific issues which we must discuss. And that is what we are doing here today. That is why it can be said that this political debate or political struggle must take place at several levels, among others. At a European level, then, I hope that the left will be stronger in Europe. This is true in the European Parliament, but even more so in the individual nation states, it is still the case that the central decisions lie and, above all, that there is a relationship of strength in Germany that can change German economic policy. This will have an enormous impact on how Europe and the European Union will develop. However, the fact that there are other forces at European level than the right and left is part of that struggle and an essential part of that struggle. Another part, and that is what we are discussing here today, is to what extent the nation states should be allowed to regulate, if I may say so, if it turns out that European regulation is not enough. And it certainly isn't at the moment. Hopefully it will be, but until then we must also have a valve that lies in the nation states being able to pull the brakes and make their own rules in order to protect, for example, welfare communities. And that is why we believe that the efforts which at least the majority's proposals for adoption here today are positive, because it also shows that the government and the bourgeois parties are aware of the challenges and problems of social dumping that lie in the export of welfare services, and that we are losing control and regulation of our welfare societies and, above all, the financing of them. It is, of course, what is being discussed among the EU countries that there are other countries that are, if I may say so, in the same squeeze as Denmark, because they have a reasonably good welfare society that they want to protect. There are other countries that do not have the welfare societies and therefore do not have the same interest. That discussion is going on. And, of course, it is important that we on the Danish side, if I may say so, take the sails up and that we are proactive in that discussion. I also think it is important that we work for a social protocol, what we have then discussed in other resolutions here in Parliament. We fully support this. However, we still think that, although it is not in this proposal for adoption that lies here today, there is great progress in getting, if I may say so, the government committed to work to combat social dumping, to guarantee the rights of workers, to ensure that it is not the internal market that should take precedence over workers' rights, to work to ensure that the relationship with child money develops, so that there is confidence in them here in Denmark as well as in indexing them. I think that this is a good, good proposal here, which points in a very good direction, although it is not one hundred per cent perfect, but it does not have to be in order for us to vote in favour of it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118145929	There is a request for a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118145935	I took note of the fact that Mr. Jacob Mark, after that, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen had been out with his headline that the Social Democracy was about to be EU-critical or skeptical, said he could more or less support the things that Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen imagined. That's what he said in BT; I think it was the day after Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen had spoken. Then I also note here that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen at the same time says that we in Denmark must have the opportunity to pull on the emergency brake. I'm glad to hear that, sir. Holger K. Nielsen says. I'd just like to see Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen might identify some of the areas where Mr. Holger K. Nielsen seems to think that there is reason to pull the emergency brake and, if so, what that trait could consist of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150035	I'm not gonna go into a debate between Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark and Henrik Sass Larsen. My intellect is not enough, at least not here today. So as far as the emergency brake is concerned, I would say that this is a lot about social dumping. That is also what it is important that we continue to work on, so that we in Denmark have the opportunity to take sufficient action against social dumping. I think that is quite important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150117	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150119	I agree with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen i. I would really like to hear about the minimum wage, because it was something of that, as Mr. Jacob Mark without really mentioning it, but by saying that he agreed with Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, at least indicated that there could be an agreement. So just for the record: the Socialist People's Party is so preoccupied with, for example. to create a common European minimum wage, or should that not be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150154	No, we are not, and I do not consider that to be realistic or particularly beneficial if we have that discussion. On the other hand, I certainly think that what we could discuss was one of the things Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen was referring to what is called a generalisation of the agreements. There's a problem with that. With social dumping and a trade union movement that could be stronger than it is, if I may say so, because it is strong here in Denmark compared with other countries, but it has been weakened somewhat, it will probably be a step towards better combating social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150234	Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150236	Thank you. Finally, I would like to say that we can have much sharper tools than generalising and thus making legislative interference in the agreements. But no matter what, we should leave that discussion to the trade union movement and not start taking it here in the Folketing until the trade union movement thinks it is a good idea. But what I wanted to say to the rapporteur is: well, I can see that there are some positive wordings in this proposal for adoption. That's what I said from the platform. I would like to acknowledge that, because that is what we have to do. But one thing is positive; another is concrete action. And that is why I am disappointed that it has not been demanded that the proposal for a social protocol be included, because then there would be something fairly specific about that. However, what I wanted to ask the rapporteur was actually something that he gave me a keyword in the debate or exchange we had when I was on the platform. If the rapporteur, who has been appointed as the architect of the Danish derogations, i.e. the Edinburgh decision, and I do not have to decide whether it is right or wrong, is now looking back at the whole process, does the rapporteur not regret that we did not have a fifth exception, which was about the possibilities of protecting our model of agreement and welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150355	Yes, but that was many years ago, and the discussion at that time was very much linked to the Maastricht Treaty. But it was then in the deliberations that we had a discussion on the labour market as well, as I remember it. It was not directly on the agenda, but I think there are in fact some wordings in what is called the Edinburgh Declaration. It consisted of two things, a decision that is the exceptions and then a vote next to it. And there I actually think there were some wordings in which we confirm that we stand firm to the Danish labour market model. And I think that in itself was a very important statement. But what has not been the problem is that the internal market has tended to undermine the desire to maintain the model because of the free movement of labour, social dumping, and it is not really possible to control it. That is not good enough, and it is those opportunities to control it better, which we are discussing here and which we need to do more about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150503	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150505	Thank you. That's absolutely right remembered. I haven't checked, but that's how I remember it. Let's put it that way. The exceptions are hardcore law, you might say. These are fairly far-reaching exceptions from the European Union's perspective, for example. from EMU and the other things. The second was confirmed by our declaration of Denmark, where we received a reassuring letter from a Commissioner who then turned out not to hold water. It is against this background that I say: in the clear light of hindsight, would it not be good to listen, because we were actually some in the trade union movement there I can say we ~ who wanted us to have a fifth exception? Then we would have avoided all that social dumping, and we would have avoided the fact that the Court's intervention in conflict law would have had an impact on Denmark. Then we would have had the right to decide for ourselves on welfare benefits. That is why I ask: does the rapporteur not regret a little not being held on to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150603	No, I don't think so. Well, I also find it very interesting that Mr. Finn Sørensen says this is tough law. That's what Mr. Finn Sørensen not in 1993. I can guarantee that. There it was said that it had no meaning whatsoever and that it was the greatest betrayal ever in the history of Denmark. So I remember that clearly. But okay, I'm glad that you now have respect for the work that was done then. Anyway, I guess there's really no reason to discuss this. So what this is all about now is how to secure the Danish labour market and Danish worker interests. And that is what today's debate is also about. And there I think it is important that virtually the whole parliament is behind a fairly sharp line in relation to social dumping, in relation to the regulation of the labour market, so that it is not just the internal market's economic freedoms that will determine. I think we should acknowledge that. And I also sense that Enhedslisten does, and I would like to sign for that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150707	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for short remarks, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118150728	The Danish People's Party obviously wants to abolish the free movement of workers within the European Union. There is no way we can support that. It is an advantage for the Danes and for Denmark that Danes can travel to other European countries and get work. It brings competences, connections and money to Denmark. I myself have worked in London for Novo Nordisk for a period of time, and I learned a great deal from this, and it is of great benefit to Novo Nordisk that they can easily send Danes to their subsidiary in England and other European countries, where they can then shovel money home to Denmark by selling medicine. Obviously, the Danish People's Party will do away with this, and I find it very incomprehensible that one is opposed to it. Not only is it an advantage for Denmark that Danes can travel abroad, it is also an advantage for Denmark that European labour can come to Denmark. According to calculations from the University of Copenhagen, the average EU citizen in Denmark makes a profit of approx. 21,000 kroner. a year. It is therefore not right to paint a picture of the fact that Eastern European labour makes the free movement of labour a disadvantage for Denmark as a whole. That is simply wrong. The free movement of workers is, overall, a huge economic gain for Denmark. We have some problems with EU citizens who come to Denmark and who should not be here. That's right. The Conservative People's Party is in favour of labour being able to come here, but we are not in favour of social clients coming to Denmark. That is to say, people who come to Denmark alone to receive our welfare benefits without working. But then that's what we need to address. We must shut down beggars and other social clients, but we must not abolish the free movement of workers. That is to shoot grey sparrows with guns; it is too violent a step towards the problem that we have. We are in favour of profit principles which mean that you cannot get to Denmark and from one day to the next get the right to transfer income. We have hit hard on begging and we are more than willing to take more steps that can scare social clients away from Denmark without scaring the labour force away. We also agree with the Danish People's Party that we should not have a lot of people permanently to Denmark, so that the labour force really changes the composition of the population in Denmark. But we are in favour of foreign labour coming to Denmark to work for a number of years. Competition in the Danish labour market must, of course, be fair in this respect. We will not accept foreign labour which evades paying Danish tax or VAT. There is a problem with that, among other things. the transport, but if foreigners come here temporarily to work in accordance with Danish rules for Danish companies that benefit from their labour force, then it is an unambiguous gain for Denmark. It is absurd to hear the Danish People's Party refer to it as that Danish companies are forced on foreign labour. They want foreign labour, they can't do without it. This is crucial for our prosperity and therefore also for what the Danish People's Party refers to as welfare, namely the very high public spending that we have in Denmark. Foreign labour is particularly important in these years when we almost have full employment in Denmark. There is not much more labour to wriggle out of the Danish population, and this severely limits Danish companies and makes us poorer. This situation with very high employment then wants the left to use to push up wages in Denmark so that Danish companies become even less productive than they are today. In Denmark, we are already struggling with very high wages, and this hampers our competitiveness, and the left wants to do even worse by excluding the foreign labour force, which ensures that there is competition for jobs in Denmark. We cannot support that. There are industries in Denmark that will close if we follow that path. Agriculture will be faced with severe problems, hotels and restaurants will be much more expensive, which will be a huge problem for tourism in Denmark. Many high-tech companies will close down if they cannot obtain foreign, highly trained labour. And that is not in favour of Denmark. We need Danish companies to compete, and this also requires labour available to them. This is what our prosperity is based on, in other words, that Danish companies can compete. And to take as violent steps as this, which will destroy the competitiveness of Danish companies, is, I think, a kind of opposition proposal that I never think would be put forward if there were any prospect of it being voted through, because it would be a disaster for the Danish economy. We Conservatives are not in favour of protectionism. We are in favour of competition, including when it comes to jobs. That is why Denmark is a rich country, and we want to be in the future as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151243	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151250	I have to say, sir. Rasmus Jarlov says a lot of things here, as Dansk Folkeparti has never said; it was something with Danish companies and that there should not be a single one, etc. etc. And that way it is easy to shoot down a proposal. What we say in the Danish People's Party is that you have to be hand in hand with who comes, and I simply find it hard to understand that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov as a Conservative may have the view that it is just a fantastic business that people come here who benefit from and share in the Danish welfare system from day one. I simply do not understand that. We have also discussed the post and post down on these amounts, i.e. whether it is a profit or not. And I just have to say that the figures from the Ministry of Finance show that it is not a profit business if the conditions on which Mr. Bjarne Corydon previously provided an answer to that question. I'm just gonna have to ask sir. Rasmus Jarlov very briefly: What does Mr. Rasmus Jarlov do to achieve the goal that he has of profit principles?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151407	It is not true that there is any evidence to suggest that the free movement of workers is an economic disadvantage for Denmark on the contrary. There is thorough evidence to say, with its common sense, that the fact that labour can come to Denmark is of course an advantage. Because that means that companies can make money from a workforce they need. But it is also on the basis of the figures available, and I must insist that the Danish People's Party in its adoption text, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth read out of the platform that the free movement of workers should be abolished. That's what it says, and that's just what I'm holding the Danish People's Party to. Conservatives do not agree with this, it is deeply irresponsible and it would be an economic disaster for Denmark. We will continue to work on the principles of profit that are already in the process of being introduced. And of course we are also open to realistic ideas from the Danish People's Party. However, going out and saying that labour should not be able to come to Denmark and free movement within the EU must be abolished is completely unrealistic, and that would be disastrous for the Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151527	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151529	Yes, but I am just pleased to note here that yesterday or the day before yesterday the Conservatives announced that they would vote in favour of a proposal on the SU and the possibility for East Europeans to borrow SU loans. And that's what I'm counting on, sir. Rasmus Jarlov will come down here and do whatever Mrs Louise Schack Elholm has said. Those were pretty clear words that came from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's party's rapporteur on this matter. Then I just want to ask you if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov could imagine doing the same in relation to a number of other benefits to which he is entitled.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151614	That is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech here from the platform, in other words that we are in favour of profit principles. We are in favour of not getting full entitlement to Danish welfare benefits from day one, one comes up here, but one earns the right over time. And we do not mind that there are different rules for Danes and foreigners. It is clear that it must be something that can be implemented, and there may well be some legal obstacles to it. In principle, however, we fully agree with that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151651	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151656	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. The Chamber and the rapporteur must forgive me if this question has been asked before, but I have just been absent for a moment. But if the rapporteur thinks that it is a clear economic gain for Denmark that we have, is it 125,000 EU citizens who are currently working in that country? I think I have heard that: what if we imagine a situation where Denmark suddenly finds itself in crisis, where Europe is in crisis and there is mass unemployment in Denmark? Then the EU citizens concerned are still away in the country, so are the unemployed and they cannot be sent out of the country, and suddenly we find ourselves in a situation which is very similar to that of the guest worker in the 1960s, that is, that we have workers who come here to work and that is good for everyone, it is claimed but that they stay here, because why should they go back home again? Does the rapporteur not think that this would be a problem, in other words that we are in a situation where we have suddenly assumed the burden of caring for 125 000 EU citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151758	Well, it is clear that if there were suddenly 125,000 EU citizens in Denmark who were no longer in work and who represented an expense for the Danish welfare community, then of course it would be an economic burden, that goes without saying. In other words, there are a large number of Danish citizens who could also be seen in this way as an economic burden, although it is not so nice to refer to people in this way. But if people get unemployed, it costs the state some money, and that is true whether it is foreigners or whether it is Danes. After all, the average EU citizen who comes here contributes because you come up here because you get a job because you are of working age. Typically, it is not children who cost the welfare society money because they have to go to kindergarten and school etc., or pensioners who cost the welfare society money because they have to have a pension and not work. They are typically people of working age, and it makes all other things equal a gain for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151855	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151858	Yes, but for a rapporteur from a party that at least once stood for God, king and country, I would find it worrying that, as a society, the Danish society, a small country in Europe, a potential dependency burden on 125 000 EU citizens, that is what I think it is that is currently in the country. Does the rapporteur not see a problem in the fact that we have opened the door to some people, most of whom may be working here, but who may not be able to be sent out of the country if they decide one day not to work or do not want to work or cannot work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118151935	Yes, but I answered yes to that before, that is, of course, that it will be an economic problem. But there is just no reason to assume that EU citizens should be a greater burden nor in a situation of unemployment than Danish citizens, because they have exactly the age that I was talking about before, which means that they probably make an average contribution greater than the average Danish citizen. Therefore, there is not really any economic rationale to say that it should be such a particular burden for the Danish state that there are a number of EU citizens in Denmark. There are, of course, some groups, Roma and other groups that are certainly on average a huge financial burden, but EU citizens as a whole are not a financial burden, not even in an unemployment situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152018	We thank the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. And so we move on to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152026	Thank you. And thank you for one, it has to be said, fairly wide-ranging and long debate, which has spread over a lot of different themes. I also note that the proposal for adoption presented today, on which there is broad agreement, contains many good elements, I think, and also states that the EU's internal market and the EU's rules on free movement have created growth and employment in Europe. I think this is a crucial point to take note of, because that is what both helps to give a small country like Denmark better opportunities to exploit its size, but also ensures that we have a better employment than we would otherwise have had. I have also noted that there has been some interest in the whole question of Regulation 883, not least on the part of the Danish People's Party. And it has to be said that the Danish People's Party knows very well that the government is fighting a lonely struggle to obtain support, among other things. to an indexing of child benefit. However, this is a political battle for which I think there will be more political scrutiny in a large number of EU countries. Now we can see that a new government has arrived in Austria and we can see that a new government has arrived in the Netherlands, and we are, of course, also waiting to see how the German Government now chooses to follow up on the previous statements they have made. But for me, it is also important that we continue to work to create fair and equal conditions, and thus also to say that if we are to have welfare benefits such as those we have to have. a child benefit, one cannot necessarily just think that it should be without an indexing. Then it is worth noting that not least Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten threw himself into a long discussion on the social protocol, which we actually had a discussion on under B 18. There Finn Sørensen says he is sorry that the social protocol has not just found its way into the proposal for adoption that is here. And it can be said that there are good reasons why it has not done so. It is first and foremost because what you can see, if you read the social protocol from the European workers' organisations, is that one of the points in that manifesto is that you must not create a setback in terms of welfare benefits. So if you had said yes to it, it would have meant in my world that you would not be able to fight for the whole question of indexing child benefit, because then you would have locked yourself in the position we had today. There are also many other exciting things that would create major problems for Danish EU membership. However, I note that there is broad support for the proposal for adoption that has now been put forward and I look forward to a continued debate on this area of employment, industry and growth, which has at least now called for many debates in the last month, both with two motions for resolutions and now with this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152351	There are two brief comments to be made, first from Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152357	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased to hear that the Minister is fighting a hard fight for indexing child pay. Let us now assume that we succeed, and then we have come a little bit. However, I have a slightly older article which lists all the welfare benefits to which an EU citizen is entitled in Denmark, and according to this list we are up to 123 benefits. It's a little old, so there may have been some more. Then I wonder whether it is not a little unambitious to settle for an indexing of child pay when there is plenty more to do. And I would like to know whether the Minister has given some thought to these individual benefits, i.e. whether we should go in and see whether there are any possibilities, if I may say so, for weeding out a little in the stock of these benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152454	Now I have not seen that list, and the Left rapporteur, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen also offered a very heroic cup of coffee together with the Danish People's Party's rapporteur on this theme. And if that happens, I'll probably get the list, and no matter what, I'd like to see that list too. But what this is all about, for example. the way in which we define the concept of worker in Denmark. There I think there are things that are linked to the proposals that Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen now mentions. However, I do not think that we should simply say that if we succeed in indexing family benefits, then we should not look at other parts, which it may also be sensible to focus on. But child benefit is an important and, I think, fundamental issue, which can also provide opportunities for further proposals in the European area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152541	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152546	Thank you, Minister. So what the European trade union movement's proposal for a social protocol says is, if I am to cut it down to a very short sentence, that we must ensure that professional and social rights, as we would say in Danish, are superior to economic freedoms. First question: is it a problem for the Minister to make that clear? Now the Minister is reporting so clearly that he is still opposed to the proposal that it does not surprise me as Enhedslisten put forward. The next question will be: the Minister himself signs a proposal for adoption which says that the Folketing does not believe that economic rights in the European Union should undermine the rights of workers. You didn't write that if there wasn't a problem, did you? So let me ask you this: does the Minister agree with Mrs Mette Frederiksen in her conclusion, which is that the problem is that economic freedoms have taken precedence over employees' rights, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152659	No, I really do not agree with Mette Frederiksen very much, and I do not think I will be in this debate either, and probably not afterwards. However, this proposal for adoption reflects what I think is important in Danish politics, namely that it is possible to adopt a balanced resolution that goes across the political wings, if that is the case. Now I myself enjoyed the restoration of a European theater, where Mr. Holger K. Nielsen took the lead and told about what exactly happened back during Maastricht and the whole discussion about exceptions. There was a blackout compared to what was good and what was bad. It was good to know, but I think that the Enhedslisten is too confrontatory in seeking the political influence that is absolutely crucial, and I think that is a shame. I would like to sign that SF is also a party seeking that influence, although SF has in many ways been very critical of certain parts of the European project. That is why the adoption here also illustrates a balanced approach both to recognising economic growth and development, but of course also that workers' rights must be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152803	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152805	I don't know if we're particularly confrontational. We just want to know what the substance really is in the things we adopt and on which we say we agree, because if we really aren't, then maybe we'll go and stick each other or the people or both in the eye, and that's a shame, isn't it? That's not good policy. Now I understand that the Minister does not agree with Mrs Mette Frederiksen's analysis. Nevertheless, the Minister signs a sentence stating that economic rights in the European Union must not undermine the rights of workers. So I ask: what specific action is the Minister going to take to ensure that this does not happen? And if there is no concrete action on the part of the Minister that he can propose, is the sentence merely an expression of the wish to have a vote with the Social Democratic Party on this, or what is the entirely political, practical substance of the sentence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152905	Yes, that is to say, it is not more recent that political decisions can be made where a compromise can be found, and that is what this adoption is all about. After all, I have no ambition to mess with the workers, as some would like to do. I think we should have a balanced approach. What is the problem is that the Enhedslisten does not recognise that there is economic development and huge progress in Danish membership of European cooperation, and that is probably where the difference lies, namely that Mr. Finn Sørensen is somewhere else. It is neither the first nor the last time it happens, and that is a good thing, otherwise we would not be here either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118152941	No one else has asked for brief comments to the Minister, so we thank him. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until Tuesday, 23 January this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180118153007	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 19 January 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
