ParlaMint-DK_20181109100036	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Motion for a resolution No. B 32 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Denmark's accession on an intergovernmental basis to Regulations (EU) No 1303/2013 and (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council) 2018/1861 and No Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). Pelle Dragsted (EL), Rasmus Nordquist (ALT) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 33 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on social representatives on the Board of Directors of financial institutions). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 34 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a Danish blacklist of tax havens). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The parliamentary group of the alternative has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing, Christian Poll, for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Josephine Fock, who has resigned from the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109100145	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109100202	Good morning, President. The government has put forward a draft law dealing with proximity funding in the regions. In future, part of the financing of the regions will be called proximity funding. The government has done this as part of the economic agreement with the regions, which applies from 2019. We have discussed activity-specific funding here in the Danish Parliament, which in popular terms is called a 2-percent productivity requirement, many times, and we in the Social Democratic Party are extremely pleased that a majority in the Danish Parliament was created which made the government remove the productivity requirement in the health sector. Now the government comes up with a proposal for a new performance-based governance mechanism, which is called proximity funding. Five criteria have been set up which the regions must comply with in order to get the part of the funding that lies here. This corresponds to approx. One-and-a-half billion. The regions must meet the criteria, and this has been done in such a way that they have to meet the criteria. They must meet at least four of the five criteria in order to obtain the full amount set aside. Let me just mention, as the first rapporteur, what five criteria have been set up: firstly, there must be a reduction in the number of hospital courses per year. Citizen and, secondly, a reduction in DRG value per citizen. Cronics, and they are COPD patients and diabetic patients that are being talked about here. Thirdly, it is a reduction in the proportion of admissions leading to acute re-housing within 30 days. The fourth criterion is an increase in the proportion of virtual hospital courses and the fifth and final implementation of digital solutions for patients. We in the Social Democratic Party have voted in such a way that we support the bill. We take great note of the quite predictable consultation responses that have come, especially from professional organisations, patient organisations and interest groups. They are quite critical, and they are quite critical of proximity funding and performance-based management, and whether they will contribute to more coherence and proximity in health care. Generally speaking, they prefer to be free of new control mechanisms in relation to the management of our health care systems. In the Social Democratic Party we have said that some other mechanisms of governance are needed. We have not had a discussion, not even with the government, about how they should be, but overall we agree that there should be some control mechanisms and, as such, I have already said that we are pleased that we have removed the productivity requirement. We thought it was totally untenable pressure on the staff at the hospitals, and therefore this really was the time to remove it. As I have said, we also basically agree that new economic governance must take place. We must then say that we think the timing is weird. It is strange to be standing in this Chamber today in these weeks, when we are so waiting for the government to come up with a health reform. There are many threats over the heads of the five Danish regions, and it seems paradoxical that we are here to discuss governance, mechanisms and framework when the government keeps us all so far out of the temporal disclosure of what the government is thinking about its health reform. We think this is untenable and we do not think it is very constructive. We have to say that the leaked parts, including those from the Prime Minister, that in the future the hospitals will be built up around 21 new health communities centred on the 21 emergency hospitals, are the only things we, as we know, know. But it would be nice if the Minister for Health could reveal something more today. Because, as I said, it is quite paradoxical that we have this bill to lie now that everything and everyone is concentrating their thoughts and fantasies on what the government is planning. We in the Social Democratic Party have some of the same astonishment, criticism and scepticism expressed by interest groups and professional organisations. Because we think it is strange that the regions should be able to be penalised in their liver by their share of responsibilities and tasks in health care, when it stands and falls so far, whether the framework of the municipalities in terms of both capacity and professionalism is in place. This is one of the things we would like to discuss with the government, and we are keeping a close eye on that towards the third reading of this bill. Social democracy can support this bill. And I have promised to say from my colleague, Lotte Rod of the Radical Left that the Radical Left also supports the bill. Then I should like to say that the Radical Left is pleased that the productivity requirement is finally being abolished. The Radical Left wants the money to remain with the regions and not be made dependent on...
ParlaMint-DK_20181109100721	Firstly, speaking time has been exceeded and, secondly, we can cover it by making commitments. But I do not think we should start reading the radical rapporteur's speech. Thank you for that, President. That's good. Mrs Stine Brix has just a question for Mr Stine Brix. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109100737	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I was listening a little and, in fact, had a little doubt as to what the Social Democrats think about the very proposal for a new governance that the government has made. The Social Democrats think it is good that the requirement for productivity has gone away. I fully agree with that and the Social Democrats also believe that there should be a new form of governance. But what about the proposal that lies here? Does Social Democracy think it's a good idea? One of the things that lies in this is to link economic incentives, for example. a requirement that there should be fewer hospital courses per year. Citizen. And one of the points of criticism raised, for example. the trade unions are precisely the linking of an economic incentive with something that should be a professional assessment. What does the Social Democratic Party think about the concrete governance model put forward by the government here in the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109100831	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109100832	Thank you for the question. That is precisely something I would have liked to say before the time was running out, namely that we in the Social Democratic Party have the same scepticism as many others have expressed, and that is that if the quality, if not professionalism, if not capacity, if not the continuity of the 98 municipalities is not high, then there will be rehousing. This is the weakest link that we, as Social Democrats, can assess throughout this setup at the moment. As such, the weakness does not lie primarily with the regions, but it lies in the very wide variation in professionalism and capacity that exists in the 98 municipalities today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109100915	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109100917	I agree with that very much. In his rapporteur's speech, the Social Democrat rapporteur said that the timing is strange, and I think that is quite right. For one of the prerequisites that one had to think about should be in place to make this movement was, of course, that the government made its bid for what to do with the close and coherent health care, and I have to say that I have lost track of how many times that plan has been postponed gradually. I can at least say that we do not know it yet, but these financial incentives will work from 1 January 2019 without the government having provided what will happen to the close and coherent health care. That is why my question to the health rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party is this: can it really be right that the regions should risk losing money, given that the second part of the prerequisites has not yet been met?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101012	We think that is exactly the weakest link in the whole of this presentation of proximity funding, and I very much agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur in the patience that everyone has shown in waiting for a captain to rise up in the government and to manage all the positive contributions that have come from all stakeholders in health care around the close and coherent health care system. It is a huge deficiency and it is not to take responsibility for any of the most complicated and urgent things in our health services and for what is most damaging to patients and raises the greatest frustration in everyday life. I can say that we have been waiting for at least three years for the results, and this has been postponed time after time, and that is also to make fools of all the stakeholders. Because they have really played a positive role.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101100	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101114	Thank you. The reason why we are here today dealing with L 66 is, as the Social Democrat rapporteur rightly said, that we in the Danish People's Party convinced the government that the productivity requirement had served its purpose, where from the start a health service had been set in motion with this productivity requirement and now it had reached a point where some unfortunate incentives were created in the health services to have citizens as many times as possible in the hospital instead of providing as good treatment as possible in hospitals. Fortunately, it has been abolished, but it leaves one room, one might say, to ask whether one should not try in another way to control the economy around the Danish health care system. What is being proposed with L 66 is a system with a greater focus on proximity, and we think it is good that the central focus is on some of the things that lag in the system, and sometimes also uses the tool that says that you put pressure on those who provide or provide healthcare in the healthcare system. Several members of parliament went to a conference on this subject yesterday with cooperation in the health service. It was at least a large part of this conference and it has to be said that it has been on the agenda for many years now, and now it may be that with a little economic pressure on the regions, you might be able to get the regions to take this cooperation a little more seriously and maybe catch the phone and call the country's municipalities and get this cooperation up. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is a joyful development to create the pressure so that citizens can experience a nourishing and more coherent health care in contrast to what is out there, and therefore the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101332	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101335	Finally, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that it is a good thing that there is pressure for the telephone to be picked up and dialed out and pressured. I think that the assessment of the extent of the problem may be somewhat inadequate. Now the rapporteur himself referred to the conference we attended yesterday on the health care of the future, and one of the things that came out of the municipalities over and over again is that you do not have the economy to ensure the capacity and quality needed to carry out this really big task of taking care of more citizens in the future. So my question to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is: should it not be in place before we start to press the regions financially to see the citizens less than they have done in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101426	I do not, in fact, agree with that analysis. It is the case that, in addition to being a member of the parliament, I am also a member of the council of the city which until very recently was the country's poorest municipality, the municipality of Holbæk, where I am chairing the Committee on Health. I would say that we are at least more than ready to cooperate more closely with the Region of Zealand, to get this problem swept off the ground and get something done about it. I have yet to hear anything from Region Sjælland in that capacity. So I kind of think this saying that we can't do that is a bad excuse. Because you can do that in the municipalities. It's about political will.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101503	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101504	So it is the Danish People's Party's assessment that the capacity and quality of the municipalities are thus in place; you are quite ready, without having to add new resources to take care of these many citizens. I would say that I just completely disagree with that, but that is what it is. May I ask: do you think it is right that, today, when citizens are pushed out into the municipalities instead of staying in the regions, they meet in very many municipalities a demand for user charges if they are admitted to municipal rather than regional? That is also part of the consequence: when the citizens are pushed out, yes, they actually have to pay for themselves. What does the Danish People's Party think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101542	I don't think that part's okay. I do not think that there should be user charges in the Danish healthcare system, so we are in fact in complete agreement that we should have a solution to that. And then I would say that it may well be that I expressed myself unclearly, but I clearly believe that it is economically possible for the municipalities to do something about this. For too long it has been far too easy not to embark on this task because the regions have not had much incentive to engage in active cooperation with their municipalities to solve this problem of proximity.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101616	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109101627	After all, it is no secret that we have been discussing for a long time how we manage our health care most effectively, so we are constantly keen that we should have the most health for money. Nor is it a secret that for many years now we have had a strong focus on quantity and activity, and this has made good sense. But the world around us is changing, and the Danes' health care is not a static size, but a vibrant and dynamic health care, which we in the Left have a great desire to keep up with time as well. Outside it is autumn that the leaves are falling from the trees, it rains and rushes, and we must go through much evil before it lightens again and spring comes to us. But surely we can anticipate the joys in this Chamber. For let us now turn the time back to just before the summer holidays, when the government and Danske Regions concluded a new economic agreement that not only as a completely new priority targeted funding for a boost to psychiatry, but also set the direction for a completely new governance mode: proximity funding. And what size is that? Prior to the negotiations, the Minister of Health had announced a showdown of the productivity requirement, and with a break with the state activity pool, the way was also paved for a model focusing on results rather than activity. The Kerne of proximity financing is precisely the result rather than activity. And for us in the Left, it is crucial that we pull in the same direction • equal access to high quality treatment, no matter what postal code you have, and short waiting lists, to mention just a few examples. And how can we then make sure that it is precisely in the direction we are moving, when we are now, for example, in the direction we are moving? Knowing that future patients will have more complex treatment needs with more diagnoses, more critics and more older people, will therefore need the treatment needs of the future, which will require even more coherent treatment courses and what really creates value for the patient? We should not be afraid to make demands on each other • hospitals, practitioners, municipalities and us at Christiansborg. We must make sure that we have the necessary freedom to meet the requirements of, for example, We're at Christiansborg. With the 2019 Economic Agreement, a set of criteria has been agreed which in various ways support the objective of both coherence and conversion. And let me briefly outline the criteria. The five criteria are fewer hospital courses per year. citizens, lower costs of col- and diabetes treatment, fewer rehospitals within 30 days, more telemedical courses outside hospitals and a plan for implementing IT solutions and data sharing. Some may wonder why no specific targets or targets have been set. However, it is important to emphasise here that, with the new form of governance, we are setting a direction towards which the regions can work. In addition, the criteria are not nailproof, but can be adjusted over time. I note that many of the consultation responses praise the fact that both the activity pool and productivity requirements are now history, but also that more people express concern that the management and possibly subsidies are now shifting from activity-specific to performance-dependent. I recognise that concern and have a great deal of sympathy for it, for example. can be difficult to submit through-the-summer consultation responses. However, if I am not so worried, it is because I am basically confident that we are jointly able to turn the ship, if we may say so, so that we ensure that more patients in the health care sector in the future receive treatment where it makes the most sense. And it will not always be in the new supersickhouses. The left will be close, and that is precisely why it makes sense that we, among other things, should. With the funding of proximity, if it makes the most sense for the chronicler to go to a municipal health centre, then that is where you go rather than a distant hospital. Digital solutions, a strong and well-trained general practice and competent outgoing hospital functions, to mention just a few examples, will be strong players when we change practices from activity-based funding to performance-based funding. It is about Danish patients, and here too the Left is on the patients' side. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102056	Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102058	I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left on this issue of timing. Because there are a number of these demands on which the regions have to deliver and are measured and on which the regions are at risk of losing money, which depends on what is happening in the municipalities, and the government has long since announced a plan for the close health care system in 2015, but we still have the benefit of seeing it. So to the rapporteur of the Left: do we lack the essential conditions for the regions to actually deliver on these requirements, not because the government has not delivered yet? What does the rapporteur of the Left think about the timing between these conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102141	The rapporteur of the Left believes that it is extremely wise for the government to take the time it takes to present a well-worked proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102150	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102151	I think that sounds extremely wise too. Then perhaps we should also take the time it takes and wait for economic sanctions to be imposed on the regions when the conditions are not in place. How should the regions be able to deliver in fewer hospital courses per year? Citizen, fewer hospital courses per year. When it is a task which the municipalities must play a part in lifting, and when the prerequisites for the municipalities to lift it are what the government still has to tell us how they think to be fulfilled? A proposal from this could then also be to take the time needed in relation to this particular proposal and wait until the conditions are actually in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102228	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102230	Well, it's always exciting that Enhedslisten invites in with his own views. I look forward to the rapporteur's speech. But I would also like to say that the government has entered into an economic agreement with Danske Regions, and I am fully confident that the reform that the government is working on right now will address those problems. Moreover, I also think that the challenges that exist between regions, general practice and municipalities have been repeatedly addressed and that the reform will be much more effective than we have seen in the past in creating a more close and coherent healthcare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102310	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102328	The requirement of productivity has plagued health care for many years. This requirement meant that hospitals would have to deliver more activity each year, more treatments, more operations, without any money being added to the task, and this led to a very stressful working environment, where employees worked hard to get the ends to meet, and that is, moreover, still the reality in hospitals. It was a long, tough struggle to get rid of the productivity requirement. We have had questions, motions for resolutions, consultations with several ministers who have been actions, letters from staff in the large hospitals, video clips from health professionals and the trade union organisations. Such progress or victories have many fathers or mothers, and that is what we can hear from the debate here today. In my view, productivity requirements fell first and foremost because nurses, doctors, social and health assistants, midwives and other groups in hospitals fought hard for this. It is your merit that the productivity requirement is now history. This bill, instead of the productivity requirement, will install a new form of governance, which is what is called proximity funding. In the Enhedslisten, we think it's a bad idea. It is good that the productivity requirement is gone, but we should not replace it with a new governance regime with new inappropriate consequences. The funding of proximity means that the regions must meet a wide range of objectives set by the state, otherwise there is a risk of economic sanctions. Among these objectives are, for example: the requirement that there should be fewer hospital courses per year. Citizen and fewer hospital courses per year. Patient with KOL and diabetes. I find it extremely problematic that such targets should be linked to economic punishment. This means that it is economic considerations which are at risk of governing what is happening to patients and not a professional decision. We know that local capacity and quality are far from in place, and in this light it is particularly worrying that, as from 1 January 2019, the regions risk financial sanctions if patients are admitted more. The draft law here contains no answers to how to build an adequate capacity locally. On the contrary, the latest rumours are that the government for, and I do not know how many times now, has postponed their announced reform of the close and coherent health care system. So the whip must be fluctuated over the regions, but the government has still not provided the plan which, in the government's own view, is needed to enable more people to be treated in the near health care system. At the same time, it is the case that patients in the vast majority of municipalities will be charged user fees if they are admitted to local government. We believe that this must also be corrected before more patients are squeezed into municipal emergency places. In two weeks' time, we ourselves have tabled a motion for a resolution which will be dealt with in the Folketing, which will ensure that. The Enhedslisten does not believe that hospitals and regions should be managed in detail by the Ministry of Finance or Health. We want greater freedom for the regions, and that is why we believe that the amount previously allocated through the activity pool should instead be transferred through the block subsidy. There is adequate overall governance today through the economic framework, through the eight national objectives as well as the ongoing economic agreements. That is why our member of the Board of Directors of Danske Regions also voted against the economic agreement which involved the proximity funding, we voted against the economic agreement in the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee, and we are also voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102714	Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102716	Thank you. I understand from the Enhedslisten that you were not interested in the 2-percent requirement, but also that you are not in favour of this steering tool, which has now been introduced, with proximity funding. However, I do not hear any suggestion as to how to control the economy of the regions. Does the Enhedslisten have a proposal for this, or does the Enhedslisten think that regions can be managed without any form of economic governance?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102743	It is the position of Enhedslisten that there are a large number of steering tools already in addition to what is here. As I said at the end of my speech, there is a clear budgetary framework and eight national objectives, and there are agreements in the economic agreements. We believe that this is sufficient governance. This is the view that we have championed throughout the debate on the requirement of productivity, and that is also the view that we have put forward on the Board of Directors of Danske Regions. So we believe that there is sufficient governance and that this is superfluous. In addition, as I see many answers to the question of consultation, we are at risk of leading to a number of shortcomings, in other words, starting to decide when a patient should be admitted, on the basis of economic considerations rather than on the basis of professional considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102833	Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102834	Of course, it has to be the professional consideration that is in the front row in relation to how a patient should be treated, and this is also set out in this model. Of course, that must be ensured. With regard to the productivity requirement of 2%. I would say that at the time it was introduced, it was said that it was 2%, but in fact it has resulted in the regions having made it more efficient for 2.4%. on average over 10 years. It is money and efficiency, all of which have benefited patients. If that had not been the case, the efficiency would never have been achieved, and fewer patients could have been treated today for the same money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102912	Thank you! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102914	I think it is a claim which is very far from what the reality is in hospitals. What we can see is a working environment that is deeply problematic. We can see that it is very much the staff who have paid for having to deliver more and more without getting money for the task. I think it is easy to make efficiency improvements, and I believe that both staff and operators have an interest in this, but to have such an automatic green harvester, which does not decide whether it is actually an improvement in efficiency or whether it is just a question of staff running stronger, we have seen that it is very, very inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102955	Thank you. Sir. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109102957	Thank you. Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti disagree on whether the regions should run health care in Denmark. When Enhedslisten now advocates the view that it is the regions that should be responsible for health care in Denmark, should the regions not also be obliged to the agreements they themselves make regarding health care in Denmark? Because that's what this is. It is, after all, the outcome of an agreement signed by the regions themselves. Should the regions not be committed to what they themselves say yes to, or should they just be able to come and say that they do not want it anyway, that they want all the benefits, but do not want all the other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103034	I do not represent Danish Regions, I represent Enhedslisten. And our position throughout this process, both as a member of the board of the Danish Regions and here in the Danish Parliament, has been that we think this is a bad proposal. Then, in my view, it does not matter to me what economic agreement has been reached. We are taking a concrete position as to whether or not we believe this is a better health service. And I believe that this leads to a worse health service, because we are linking economic incentives with some things that need to be decided on professionally, for example. when to be admitted to a hospital. And I think that's what should guide our position on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103111	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103112	However, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself said in her reply to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup that there were some steering tools, among others. those agreed in the economic agreement, and that is one of the steering tools agreed in the economic agreement. In principle, then, should we not live up to the agreements we make ourselves, or should we run from the agreements we make ourselves? What is Enhedslisten's view on that? Are the regions not bound by what they themselves say 'yes' to?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103140	I think it sounds as if the Danish People's Party rapporteur would like to have a talk with Danske Regionser, and he is free to answer the phone, and then Danske Regionser has to answer how they take a position on it. I believe and Enhedslisten believe that this is a bad management tool, and that is why we are voting against it. I disagree with this argument that the productivity requirement cannot be abolished without creating a new law. There are a large number of regulations in the area of the regions, and that is enough and sufficient. And that is why we do not need to adopt it here, and that is why I would urge more people to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103214	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103224	Thank you. After all, it is always difficult to combine financing models in an area that does not have competition. When it is primarily publicly funded, it is difficult to get the right incentives in such a financing model. However, the 2-percent requirement has had its effect for many years. It certainly had some mistakes too. But it is not, as Mrs Stine Brix says, and as we have often heard from the red parties, a green harvester. It never was. It is certainly not because of the 2-percent requirement that health professionals have had to run too fast, which I totally agree they have had to. They have really been running too fast, and that has never been the intention. But the primary reason for this has been a very inappropriate documentation requirement, which has arisen in many layers, not only here at Christiansborg, but also in the regions, in the individual hospital and even in the individual department. Danish Nursing Council itself says that the part of the documentation, which is superfluous, corresponds to approx. Three thousand full-time jobs, and it is clear that we need to put an end to this, because health workers out there need to have better working conditions. What we are doing now is proposing another financing model which is not activity-based, as the 2-percent requirement was, and which in fact rewarded activity; the more times a patient was reinstated, the more operations, the more treatments, the greater the reward the region or hospital received. Of course, that is not very appropriate. What we are doing now is proposing proximity funding which rewards keeping patients healthy instead of actually keeping them sick. We have to measure, for example. fewer rehospitals. It's just one of the targets. It makes very good sense, of course, to create an incentive both to keep patients better healthy and also to treat them where it is nicer for patients, namely as close to their homes as possible. We hear so often about accidental incidents in a hospital, plus that there can be a long way to a hospital. So, of course, it's nice for a patient to be treated either at home or at his own doctor's, and that's what this is all about. I think this and the Liberal Alliance are a step in the right direction and we will therefore vote in favour of the proposal when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103517	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103528	The bill is about how the health services and hospitals are to be managed. On the one hand, the government will abolish the activity pool and the productivity requirement, which in the alternative we have spoken for too long, and on the other hand they will replace the steering tools with a new governance called proximity funding. Both have already been agreed with the regions in the spring. According to the Government, the aim of proximity financing is to strengthen coherence and transition to the nearest health care system by 1.5 billion. kr. the financing of the regions depends on their performance in relation to a broad set of performance criteria set for coherence and proximity. This means that the management goes from activity-based to performance-based. The proposal also provides that the Minister for Health may lay down detailed rules on the performance criteria, including setting targets for each performance criterion. We welcome the fact that we are getting rid of the principles of governance that we now have, and instead we are getting some common sense into this area, so that rather than having some principles of governance, such as governance, we have a common sense of responsibility. It is a question of performance management, which is therefore looked at how many days you are admitted to the hospital, instead of now being given the opportunity to have outgoing hospital functions, as is mentioned as an example by the government. We can see the positive in that part. However, I have noted the reservations and concerns that are also reflected in the consultation responses. Several of the consultation responses, e.g. those from the Medical Association, Younger Doctors, LO, Danske Patients etc., highlight a concern that the financial incentives can lead to inappropriate decisions, and they believe that the funds should rather be transferred as part of the block grant. The consultation responses from some of the same people also point out that proximity financing can be a risky management, because the economic incentive can lead to inappropriate and non-professionally based decisions. Older People The case calls for a patient-experienced indicator to be added to the results measurement, which we also think is very sensible. In the alternative, we think, as I said, that it is very positive to have the productivity requirement and the activity pool removed, and we also support the idea of a strengthened and coherent and more close healthcare system. However, we cannot support the funding of proximity and continued centralisation and the setting of targets and criteria. We believe that government governance and intervention in health care have taken precedence, and we believe that proximity funding is another example of this. We believe it should be professionalism that moves patients from one place to another, not economy. So we want the changes in health care to come much more by involving health professionals and drawing on their experience and professionalism, and by involving patients more closely in assessing, for example. how many pains they have, whether they have improved the quality of life and are able to go to work, etc. We are therefore positive about the first part, but we do not want to introduce a new economic incentive model. We hope that the government will look at, among other things. experiences that have been done on Bornholm, where trust replaces focus on governance and control.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103929	Thank you. Sir. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103932	Thank you. I need to clarify this by saying that you do not want state governance in this area, and that at the same time you want to override an agreement made by the regions themselves. It is precisely to take state control of things when you ignore what the regions themselves say 'yes' to and say that we will now adopt something else in the Folketing. It's government, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109103957	Well, then, I can answer, as Mrs Stine Brix did before on the same question. We are based on our political views on how to operate our hospital system, and we are also based on the experience that has been gained, among other things. KORA has published a report on the experience of Bornholm, which has been based more on trust rather than control, and that is the way we think it should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104029	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104031	But that does not change the fact that when Christiansborg adopts something other than what the regions themselves have said 'yes' to, then state governance is created, which trumps what the regions themselves believe they want. That's government control. Surely we cannot divide that up and say that it is because we have a different view in our party. When you choose to make decisions at Christiansborg about how the health services should be organized, contrary to what the regions themselves have said 'yes' to, then you make central health care management.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104106	No, you don't. You make a decision, if it were up to us, that you shouldn't run in here from Christiansborg. The choice of an agreement by the Danish Regions may have many different reasons, and we also know that the regions have different experiences in managing the area. So it is our view that it should be laid out and that it should be more up to the individual hospitals and that we have confidence in the health professionals and the managements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104145	Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104149	Thank you. How will the alternative manage the economy of the regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104156	Do you want me to present a management model here? I don't think we have time for that. As I mentioned in my speech, we will look at how it has been done on Bornholm. It's the Capital Region that's been running trials there. And, as I said, we want to move far more away from the economic incentive model and into a more professional starting point for governance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104225	Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104227	I fully agree that professionalism must go ahead of everything and that it is the most important thing, but everything costs money. If the economy is not respected in the regions, how will the alternative tackle it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104245	We do not believe that it should be economics that is an incentive for what kind of treatment you are receiving as a patient or whether you are being moved from the regional hospital system into the municipality. It should not be an economy that is crucial to it, because it is a professional decision, and what we have seen so far, and which is good about this proposal, is that we get rid of the kind of incentive that is about having a list of activities that you can choose from, and you can only choose it. And it's really positive that we get away from it. We are concerned that the new model will have the same kind of economic incentive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104331	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104338	Thank you very much. With the conclusion of the Regional Agreement this summer and, inter alia, with the This proposal finally and finally we say goodbye to the hated re-priority contribution, and from having been too focused on activity management criteria in health care, the focus now shifts towards results and also increased proximity in the performance of health tasks. That is a good reason and a very important reason why the SF representatives said yes to the regional agreement this summer and that we are today saying yes to L 66. However, I think we need to be aware of a number of the objections raised in the consultation responses from a number of health and patient organisations, in relation to whether local authorities and general practice can actually solve several of the health tasks that are slowly slipping out to them in these years. Therefore, new performance criteria must be agreed in close cooperation with the regions, municipalities and relevant stakeholders, so as not to set false assumptions that either end up punishing the regions financially or at the very worst: that there are patient groups that get caught up or receive poor treatment because municipalities and general practice cannot carry out the tasks. That is why we will also keep the Minister and the government firmly committed to their promise in the consultation notes that no tasks should be transferred to actors who are not ready to take care of them and that hospitals do not let their patients go completely, because it is often in hospitals that the expertise lies. Hospitals can support local treatment with the help of outgoing teams and support of general practice and municipalities, and we will hold the minister to that. We therefore also attach importance to evaluating the scheme, as agreed in the Regional Agreement, in two years' time, but we will now also be following developments in the meantime. The government has so much been sitting on its hands in relation to the close and coherent health care system. Everyone's responsibility is therefore no one's, and for SF it is important that citizens can count on the best treatment. When division of labour becomes unclear, citizens risk falling between two chairs. This is a concern which is not addressed, and I therefore share the Social Democrat rapporteur's criticism that we are still waiting for the government to respond to that challenge in terms of health issues. However, in spite of this order, we support the proposal, which we believe is a prerequisite for the implementation of the economic framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104619	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left, for a comment, a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104622	Thank you. I'm just wondering something. It sounds from the SF's rapporteur as if the government has done nothing, and I would just allow myself to ask a very quiet question. A year ago, in December last year, the government presented a proposal for the close, coherent health care system. Does SF's rapporteur call it sitting on your hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104648	But it doesn't. The proposal that was issued almost a year ago has not been implemented in any way. This is still one of the reasons why municipalities and regions are arming themselves with who has to pay for the costs. That is still the reason why we are being dragged around where the tools of treatment are to be paid and who is to take care of the task in relation to the individual citizen. We have not addressed the responsibility precisely in relation to a number of health tasks. We should have done that. That would have been very wise, and it would also have been a good idea to think about what the funding should be like. But the order is trying.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104728	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104729	I understand that the SF rapporteur believes there are a number of challenges, and I share that view. But these are not challenges that have arisen overnight. Now it is not so awfully long ago that the SF itself was part of an intergovernmental cooperation, so I am just asking: what kind of initiatives did the SF itself take when it was in government to solve these very, very major challenges, which I certainly recognise there and which I also hear from the rapporteur? So would the rapporteur not just briefly outline what SF contributed at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104804	Now it is the case that the Left has actually represented the government since 2001, with the exception of four years of crisis, and that is of course a significant difference in terms of sitting in government today, where there is indeed a boom and where we can afford to do the right things. So the thing about having acted in time, I actually think we all have a responsibility to do in the present. This is about what we are doing here and now, and that is why I am also addressing the problem here and now that the close and coherent health care is agreed that we should prioritise, but we have not solved the task in the form of a clear division of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104842	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109104851	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for Health for addressing some of the shortcomings that have been involved in the financing of the regions. I also understand from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that they have pushed, so also thanks to the Danish People's Party. I myself have sat on the Regional Council of the Capital Region, where we have repeatedly torn our heads above the government's 2-percent productivity requirements. With this bill, we are modernising and strengthening primary health care, and we are placing a stronger focus on the close health care sector. We do this by removing the 2-percent productivity requirement and the state activity pool and replacing it with what we call proximity funding. Subsidiarity funding means, as many rapporteurs have said, that we set targets for the regions in order to strengthen coherence and the transition to close health care. This means that proximity funding will depend on the performance of the regions on a broad set of set performance criteria for coherence and proximity. I am not going to mention again what five criteria are: both the Social Democrat rapporteur and the Left rapporteur have already mentioned this, so I do not need to do that here. However, it has also been mentioned that this bill is, of course, a direct implementation of the agreement on the region's economy for 2019 and, of course, we must continue to work on such agreements here and back up, which is why Conservatives support the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109105018	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109105030	Thank you for your comments on the bill. With the agreement between the Danish People's Party and the government last September, we suspended the productivity requirement. We did so because there is a need to look at health care management with fresh eyes. New technologies, new therapies offer more and more opportunities, but in line with an increasing life expectancy, an increasing number of people are also expected to become life - threatening ills or to have to live with not just one, but perhaps more chronic diseases. That future is very near, and that is what we have already begun to adapt to. For Danish patients, they must experience a healthcare system that meets them where they are, with high quality and coherence in the course of treatment and also with several treatments close to where they live or, whenever possible, completely in their own home. The activity pool and the productivity requirement have existed since the turn of the century. It's been a long time. It has set a direction for health care, which has been about more activity in hospitals. This was important at a time when people were waiting for months and when some even died on the waiting list before they were treated. This has helped to provide lower waiting lists and more treatment in our healthcare system. And that was the challenge of the early '00s when we took over government. The hospital service today is also more productive than it has ever been. That is fundamentally positive. But the narrow focus is on increasing the activity inside hospitals, increasing the number of controls, increasing the number of operations, as the Danish People's Party's rapporteur also said in his rapporteur's speech, all within the hospitals. In some areas this has helped to hinder the development of the close health care system, simply because hospitals have thus become focused on increasing their own activity rather than looking at the overall health care system, on where to support municipal health houses, practitioners, and where to benefit from stronger cooperation. Yes, some have actually said that too much activity is being done in the hospitals. And basically it must be said that hospitals should not be closed silos. They must be lighthouses that shine out and support the actors in overall health care and in the near health care sector, help the general practitioner, help home nursing and thus make our healthcare system a whole. That is why it is also very important to change this governance with the bill we are discussing today, just as we agreed with the Danish People's Party last year. Because we have a good health service, which for 20 years has developed into a better cancer survival, shorter waiting times. But it has to be said that there are also challenges today, in particular there is a need for more coherence and proximity in our health services. There are today too many patients who have to drive long to get to a specialised hospital for relatively simple control. It pushes both the patients, but it also pushes the hospitals and our employees in the hospitals. For many patients, there is no relationship in their course of treatment. They find that one hand doesn't really know what the other hand is doing. There are patients who are being discharged from the hospital without the municipality always being ready to take over; there are patients who experience that they themselves must be their own such coordinator, who must also ensure a connection between what is happening in their own doctor, what is happening in the municipality and what is happening in the hospital. We can do better, and that is why today's bill is one of the important steps, both in abolishing the 2-percent requirement that we have agreed with the Danish People's Party, but also in setting a new overall governance for the health service, a management that both sets a direction and supports the goals we need: better coherence, more proximity. Technically, we are actually changing quite a bit in the law with the bill that we are discussing today. From the fact that it has been stated: the State grants an activity-dependent grant to the hospital services of the regions, it will now be stated: the State grants a result-dependent grant to the health services of the regions. But it covers a significant change, a change that we want, because we want results and focus on the quality of the results rather than only more activity, and because we need to look at the overall health care and not just the hospital system. And so today's bill also sets the agreement that we reached with the Danish People's Party last September, and the agreement we made with the regions regarding proximity funding and the economic agreement, to a large extent, a new direction for our hospitals and our overall health care. With the agreement on the region's economy for 2019, the government has agreed a new governance with Danske Regions, where we abolish the activity pool and the productivity requirement, and where we launch a new proximity funding. For the proximity funding next year, five objectives have been set for greater coherence and proximity, and they are about the transition to the near, the removal of unnecessary activity, better coherence and more digital solutions. One of the objectives is specifically less acute rehousing, fewer times when a patient is hospitalised acutely within 30 days of hospitalisation. It can be a re-housing of an elderly patient who can be greatly avoided in many cases by improved cooperation between the nursing home and home nursing, his own doctor and the hospital. This should help to support hospitals turning more towards the primary sector, and it should also help to focus on enhanced cooperation. Another objective of the proximity financing is fewer hospital courses per year. Citizen. It is not about pushing people away from hospitals if they need hospital treatment, but it is about, for example, that. patients' outpatient visits must be assembled in one day under the same roof, or when possible patients must have the help at home with telemedical equipment, home treatment or telephone calls so that they do not have to move into the hospital. So the proximity funding is by no means made to say that all patients are the same, or that all departments should look the same. It is a strategic framework for the management of our future healthcare, which makes up for the productivity requirement and which provides a visible incentive to prioritize cooperation with general practice and cooperation with the municipality, and which ensures more closeness in the treatment of our patients. It is also about using our healthcare professionals in the right way, because when we abolish the productivity requirement, as we agreed with the Danish People's Party last year, and thus the one-sided focus on activity, it is also because we want us to look at how we actually use our employees' resources, so that they not only focus on increasing their own activity, but also get the focus on the important professional cooperation that can be out against the municipalities and against the practitioners. Hospitals should not be silos, they should be lighthouses that shine out and that support the actors in the near health care system. And with the initiatives that we are also going to present on the part of the government with a future health reform, it is also about getting the parties even closer together so that we do not have as much difference in treatment as we unfortunately see in some places today, where the postal number can determine what that offer is. This must not be the case, and it is also an important part of strengthening the close health care system. The change that we are dealing with today with L 66 is a significant change in the management of our health services and, together with the series of initiatives that the government has launched and has played out, it is very much the stepping stone of a comprehensive health reform. And that is why I strongly disagree with the rapporteurs who say in this Chamber today that it is decoupled or that it is not in a context. Well, it's very much in a context, it's in a context with the play on the close and comprehensive health care from December 2017, • Health, where you are, it's very much in a context with the general practice-played • A doctor close to you, where, with 16 specific initiatives, we strengthen general practice in Denmark, and it's very much in interaction with the health data play • Health in the future, where I am also very happy that we have made a joint agreement in here, because the data support is also necessary to ensure the coherence of the close health care system. That is why things are connected, and we believe, from the government's point of view, that the reform of health is in this way on the strong basis of the strategic change towards a more close, more coherent health service, which we have launched over recent years, and which, with the agreement with the Danish People's Party on the abolition of the 2-percent requirement, we have already put a great deal of action behind. Finally, I would like to say that this draft law is the legal basis for launching and paying out the new proximity funding instead of the activity pool and the productivity requirement, and so it will also be a direct implementation of the agreement on the regional economy for 2019, which is why, of course, I hope that the parties who usually talk about respecting regional agreements will also support the draft law that is here today. Otherwise, it has to be said that they basically do not respect the culture of agreement which is the basis for some of the governance of health care today. Thank you for your comments and, of course, I am at the disposal of the committee's further questions in connection with the examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109105958	Thank you. We have a few brief comments to make. First it's Mrs. Stine Brix, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110005	Thank you. From 1 January 2019, the draft law will enter into force, and the regions will then be in danger of financial sanctions if they, for example: doesn't meet this requirement for fewer courses per hospital. Citizen. When the government itself issued a press release on the economic agreement, the Minister for Innovation said, and I quote: the new governance is a key element in the health reform presented by the government later this year as part of the cohesion reform. So my question is: when will the government's plan for close health care come, which according to the government itself is a key answer to how to move activity from the regions to hospitals, that is, the target for which the regions are at risk of financial sanctions from 1 January 2019? When's that plan coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110104	First of all, we played out with a game in December last year, "Health, where you are', where we follow up specifically on the recommendations made by the Committee on close and coherent health care. That is why I do not agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we are not already doing this. We are very much. And with the general approach, 16 specific initiatives and the economy have also devoted them to the initiatives that need to be taken to ensure that there is also the capacity in general practice. Not that we are done with the task, but that we are very much in the process of implementation, just as we are very much in the process of implementing the initiatives in relation to the challenges we face with medical coverage, which is also a prerequisite for making the close health care system more coherent. However, we will also be presenting a health reform here later this year, and the questioner also quotes my fellow minister from the press release issued at the time of the conclusion of the agreement in June.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110158	Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110205	I've read the playout "Health where you are." After all, it is a very good service that the government has marked with colours, which initiatives are new and which are already under way. It's a small number that's actually new in that game. It could be a great service if you did the same in the future. One of the proposals is that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. will make a plan on how to ensure a quality in the near health care system, and the proposal then says that during 2018 you will present that plan. We still haven't seen it. And you cannot call it an initiative to write in a plan that there will be an initiative later. That initiative has not yet come. Would it not be much more appropriate to ensure that the capacity and quality of the municipalities were in place before financial sanctions began to be imposed on reducing the number of hospitals in the regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110246	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110250	Thank you. I have to say that the reports from some of the rapporteurs in this Chamber can be a little confused. On the one hand, we have to hear that nothing has been initiated and, on the other hand, we have to hear that some of what we have then set out to unfold further is under way. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur has to find out what the Enhedslisten's rapporteur really means. Is there nothing going on or is there a lot going on? And I can tell you, there's a lot going on. The quality plan for the close and coherent health care that we presented that we would launch back in December 2017 is, of course, the work that the Danish Health Authority is doing to a large extent, because it has to be professionally based, and it is then further unfolded in the context of the health reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110328	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110333	Thank you very much. And thank you very much to the Minister. First of all, is there a revision clause built into the law here? Otherwise, we in the Socialist Group will say that we think it is good legal work if there is. But there is another question. Then, in my rapporteur's speech, I said that we in the Social Democratic Party have a concern about the ability of the regions to meet the criteria of the near-financing principle, which has been set out, because this depends very much on the efforts to be made by local authorities and practitioners. I can now hear that the Minister's speech here focuses very much on practitioners, but there was a conference yesterday on health care management, and it was a general question that we have so much to do with establishing criteria, frameworks, professionalism and competence in the 98 municipalities. I should like to ask the Minister: what is happening in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110434	Thank you for the question. I do not quite know about the audit discussion, but I can say that in relation to proximity funding, it has been agreed with Danske Regions that after two years we are already evaluating whether the direction is strategic and whether the content is correct. What is proposed in the draft law is to abolish the activity pool and the 2-percent productivity requirement, or to say the activity pool and the way in which it is paid out, and I have not heard any of the parties in Parliament so far, saying that it is wrong that we abolish the 2-percent requirement or that we abolish the activity pool. So it may be that I have not quite understood what the questioner was really thinking. It is clear that proximity funding as a new steering instrument needs to be closely and continuously addressed in terms of whether it is setting the right strategic direction, whether it is being properly taken down to hospitals. However, the fact that the draft law, which provides the legal basis for payment, is result-oriented and not activity-based, may not be what I am so worried about, the scope is there to that extent. But I may have misunderstood what the questioner asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110537	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110542	We take the matter of the review into account in the work of the committee. That was the first question. Then there was the second question, and that is when the framework for the municipalities to comply with this will be put in place. For it is therefore common to say: what is needed? Otherwise, we'll just push the regions. All that is at stake, however, in relation to hospitalizations and emergency admissions, is of course a question of whether professionalism and capacity are in place in the municipalities. When's it coming? And how is this supposed to happen? I also asked that in my rapporteur's speech with the 21 emergency communities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110620	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110625	Thank you. This is very much in line with the 21 health communities. For the 21 health communities that we want to extend to the health reform initiative, the binding framework for the cooperation between general practice, municipality and hospital is indeed. In relation to this question of what needs to be done or how far we are, I would say that we are very much in good shape, in other words both in the economic agreement with the municipalities, where we are among others. The rapporteur has not mentioned this, but it is also an important part of being ready to carry out further tasks, i.e. that the competences are also sufficient and with special training in the field of nursing in relation to the close health care system and with the plan of close quality that is also under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110705	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110708	Thank you. In other words, if I were Minister for Health, I actually think I would start to get a little bit of stress, because we can see that since the agreement was concluded this summer with Danske Regions, a number of municipalities have abandoned, for example. to take care of the iv-treatment of citizens in their own homes or to take care of parenteral nutrition of citizens in their own homes. And that, in fact, is in the opposite direction to what the economic agreement is based on. Is the Minister not concerned that we are not really achieving the goal and that the hospitals will have very serious problems in meeting the quality requirements underlying the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110747	No, I am just being confirmed that the agreement we made with Danske Regions is extremely important and that the agreement we made with the Danish People's Party to abolish the 2-percent requirement and to abolish the activity pool is extremely important. After all, the problem within current management is that it helps to drive additional activity in hospitals and that there has been no incentive to look more closely at whether iv treatment should consistently lie out in the citizen's own home or out in the near health care system. It may also be in other areas which the rapporteur himself also mentions. So I am actually just being confirmed in the need and also in the need to present further initiatives in relation to a health reform with an even more binding framework in the 21 health communities, in order to further support the development of close health care and the link between general practice, hospital and municipal services.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110832	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110837	So, for me, it is really hard to imagine that 21 municipalities can agree more easily than regions and municipalities can agree. In other words, if the municipalities do not want or are unable to fulfil the tasks which of course make sense in moving home to the citizen's own home, for example, will the Minister initiate a very clear division of responsibilities and tasks between municipalities and regions in relation to solving these tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110907	In contrast to the SF rapporteur, I think it is the opposite. Because I think it is too far for the regions sometimes today. So today these agreements are being drawn up as part of the health agreement, which must include all the municipalities in a region. There are very large differences between many of the municipalities. I think, in fact, that by dealing with the 21 health communities and thus the natural absorption areas around an emergency hospital there too, where you can work together and say that for the six municipalities located in our occupied area, that is, where we normally print patients, we will then find out what we have the capacity to do together, it will strengthen the close health care and also make up for the differences that exist today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110945	I don't see anyone else asking for the floor, so... that's it! Mrs. Pernille Schnoor came on again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109110954	Yeah, I'd actually gotten in touch, but thank you. Does the Minister recognise that economic governance instruments can reduce the autonomy and ability of health professionals to make professional judgements and that they can contribute to increasing time spent in relation to documentation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111017	I fully recognise that economic incentives work, including in a governance context. This is what we have been able to see with the 2-percent requirement and with the activity pool, which has had a steering effect far beyond the amount, which has been relatively limited, that has been in the activity pool. However, I do not agree with the causal link established by the rapporteur that this leads to additional documentation requirements, because with proximity funding we will support a closer and more close and coherent healthcare where the health professionals working in hospitals, municipalities or out in general practice will have to work more closely together professionally. Rather, it is quite the opposite, i.e. it should lead to more coherence in treatment, fewer patient-insecure situations where data have not been transmitted sufficiently, and thus cannot support and continue the good course of treatment that has been experienced in a hospital, so that it is also followed up with the same professionalism in a municipality or out by its own doctor. And that is why I believe that, in terms of proximity funding and the reorganisation of strategic governance, there can be a great deal of support for a stronger professional community than what we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111121	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111125	Then I would just like to know whether the Minister recognises that it is a discussion that is both national and international, i.e. whether the management of public institutions on the basis of these economic governance instruments has gone too far because it narrows management space and professional autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111145	So, there is a clear discussion, both in Denmark and internationally, about when the control becomes biased. And that is what we have in the agreement with the Danish People's Party from last year, i.e. that the pool of activities that was, the steering mechanism that one had, the regime that one had, had become biased. Those things had been done in a different time on the basis of some other challenges. Now there is a need for something else, and that is why we are redeploying the control. And, of course, one must be aware that governance can be supportive and that sometimes it can be too much. That is also why we have agreed with the regions that we will be looking at whether, in two years' time at the latest, the funding of proximity has the effect that we have agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111222	Thank you to the Minister for Health. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111242	The debate is open. The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111252	Thank you to the SF for the motion for a resolution on the right of treatment in the treatment of insomnia in children with adhd. I understand the idea and the good intention behind the proposal, namely to ensure that children with adhd have access to the best possible treatment. I don't think any of us in this room can disagree with the SF in that. On the other hand, I think that we should devote our energies to discussing whether or not we should run things in detail from in here and thus not give the professional space to the individual doctor, the individual health care professional, who also evaluates in the specific situation what the child needs. For that is where I think there may be some dilemmas in the proposal that the SF raises today. I think we have all heard stories about parents who have had to put their child to bed several times, because the child cannot find peace and where a bullet duvet can be one of the instruments of treatment that can be beneficial. Therefore, the government agrees that as a child with adhd, you should be able to be sure to get the necessary treatment tools and aids that you need, for example. in the case of severe sleeping difficulties where a child needs a ball or chain duvet. That is something that needs to be done today in the context of the existing regulatory framework in this area. It is now the case that the region has the responsibility for extradition and payment if a child is granted a bullet or chain duvet as part of the treatment in hospital or in specialist practice. This means that if the bullet duvet is considered a necessary continuation of the child's treatment, then of course it is also a prerequisite that the necessary treatment tool can take the child home. If, in the first instance, it is the general practitioner who considers that it may be appropriate for the treatment to use a spheroidal duvet, she or he may refer the child to further investigation and treatment in a hospital and in this way the device today actually covers the situations referred to in the motion for a resolution. Medicine is and must not be the first choice in treating children and young people with difficulty sleeping, and that is one of the things the SF takes forward in the proposal. If a specialist evaluates the need for treatment with medicinal products, it is already clear today from the Danish Health Authority's guidance that good routines and regularity about the child's loading must be in place before treatment with sleeping medicine can be considered. I can also say in more general terms, and we have also had a discussion on this in the second context of the committee that the government is very aware that the consumption of melatonin sleeping medicines in children and young people has unfortunately assumed too high a level. That is why I have recently informed the committee that I have asked the Danish Health Service, together with other relevant agencies, to describe possible initiatives to reduce consumption. In cases where a ball duvet is not part of the treatment, it may be a situation where the ball duvet is granted as an aid under social legislation. As I started by saying, I have a sympathy for the intention of the proposal, but as I also said, I think it is inappropriate for us to go in and make specific legislation aimed at individual target groups and specific forms of treatment, thus depriving the individual health care provider, the doctor or nurse, the professional skills of the child and the ability to assess the specific needs of each child in the treatment situation. The choice of treatment must be a decision taken close to the individual citizen and by those who have the professional knowledge and who are responsible for the treatment. It can then be implemented, also in the light of the guidelines and guidelines of the national health authorities. However, I agree with what I actually see is the intention of the SF with the motion for a resolution, namely to raise the problem which unfortunately we see arise in many municipalities, that is, that too many municipalities and regions are still fighting for the bill, even though it is clear in the legislation who is responsible and who is to initiate the treatment and that it is not the citizen who should get into trouble. That is why I also hope that, in the course of the committee procedure, we can ensure that we can get the ambiguities that may exist in this area wiped out and out of the way so that children and young people with difficulty sleeping can receive the treatment they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111725	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111727	Thank you for that, and also thank you for the Minister's statement that this problem is a problem which must be resolved, no matter what. That is at least how I hear the Minister's reply. I did not really expect anything else either, because it is quite true that we have discussed this problem very, very many times, and that is why I think it is so extremely frustrating that we are constantly being approached by parents who are despairing that they are being told by a municipal case worker that medical treatment is needed before a bullet duvet or chain duvet or other aids can be granted in this context. I do not think that is in line with the signals that the Minister of Health sends over and over again, and I think that what is needed then is for us to actually ensure that what we are saying is also what is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111821	We do not think that there is any ambiguity about this as soon as this happens as part of a treatment, and it will be in the vast majority of cases in the long term, because it is either something that has been initiated by a specialist, initiated in cooperation between his own doctor and hospital, or initiated in connection with a medical investigation. And then it is a treatment tool, as I said in my introductory remarks. That is why I agree that we are seeing totally unnecessary fights in which children and parents are caught up because of a bill that should not really be unclear about who should pay, because it is part of a treatment. I hope, like the rapporteur, that the debate we are having today will be able to help to put a thick line on it once again, and I hope that I will be able to do my bit to the members of the Danish Parliament to see if I can help in the committee procedure to answer any questions that might arise, so that we can ensure that children and young people who have difficulty sleeping also follow the recommendations of the Danish Health Service, where it is clear that medicines are not the first choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111928	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111930	I think I can take this as an undertaking that, in the course of committee proceedings, we can promise all the parents who are still in this mess that it is now over. Now we find a solution so that we ensure that there are no longer parents who should be in the position of fighting over who should pay the bill and whether that is possible at all and that medicines should never again be a reason why you cannot have a bullet duvet.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109111959	As I said in my opening remarks, the recommendations of the Danish Health Service in this area are very, very clear. We have also had consultations where we have talked about when it is, like medicines being chosen as part of the treatment of children and young people who have emerging mental disorders and also other causes of difficulty sleeping. There is a very clear professional framework in which it is clear that medicines are not the first choice and that other types have to be tested. I'll be happy to repeat that. However, I also have to stress, as I said at the outset, that I do not want a situation in which we determine in here what treatment should be for the individual patient. It is a professional responsibility which lies with the health care professionals who are close to the child and the patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112037	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112041	Thank you and also thank the Minister for being so clear about this, but this suggests, as the last rapporteur also mentioned, that there is indeed confusion out there, and that is what reflects the comments or feedback received from parents. It's their experience that you don't follow this, that medicine mustn't be the first choice. One of the reasons is a decision by the Ankestyrelsen in December 2015, which saw that it put an end to the use of ball duvets as the first choice. So I would like the Minister to comment on that decision of the Ankestyrelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112126	I have also done so in writing to the committee, even on several occasions, as I remember, but what, like sometimes, gets messed up is the question of what are aids under the provisions of the Services Act, which is, of course, very much what the Ankestyrelsen's decision is about, and then the rules for treatment tools. As I explained in my introduction, this is what is most often the starting point when we talk about children and young people with difficulty sleeping because the tool is provided as part of the treatment. That's not what the Anke Agency is all about. The Ankestyrelsen deals with aids under social legislation. If there is a need to clarify it further, I would like to do so, but I think it is important to stick to the fact that if the child is undergoing a treatment where a bullet or chain duvet is ordained in this context, it must also accompany the child afterwards, and then it is the region that bears the costs because it is then part of a treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112221	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112223	I understand that the Minister understands that there are two laws and that in one piece of legislation it was that the Ankestyrelsen was out to say something that does not apply on the basis of the other legislation, but does the Minister acknowledge that, and I actually think I heard a little in the Minister's speech that there is actually confusion out there, and that you throw the ball around each other a little, that region and municipality and parents see that this is not actually in practice, but that they actually find that they are being told that medicine is being used as the first choice in front of a ball duvet?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112259	I fully recognise that there are citizens who are experiencing an unnecessary fight here, and therefore I have to repeat what my predecessor in office also replied to the Folketing: if there is any doubt about who is responsible, that is to say, whether it is in the few cases where it must be the service law and aids, or whether it is the region in relation to the many cases where it is the processing tools and therefore a regional task, it would not have been harmed to the citizen. Then we must ensure that the citizen has the means of helping him, and then the municipality and the region will have to fight for the bill afterwards. Perhaps that is where I see a great deal of room for improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112334	We thank the Minister for Health and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112341	Thank you, President. Thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. But I have to say from the Socialist side that it should be totally unnecessary to table this motion for a resolution. I have to say to the Minister that here there is just one government that has not acted, as we in the Socialist Group think a government should have done. It is more than two years since I called for the first consultation and since then other parties have also called for consultation. This is not at all a way of meeting politically what people expect of an effective country that listens to the problems and challenges of the people. And Minister, this is about vulnerable families. That's why it's so serious that you can't close your ears to it, but I think the government has done that. I have lacked a captain on the bridge to tell municipalities and regions that the interpretation is not difficult. The interpretation is easy. The minister himself has explained this. The Minister can briefly explain which legislation this is covered by the hospital, or if it is the treatment of a general practitioner or the municipality, then it is two different legislations. Despite that, more than two years later, it sails completely in the same way as it did two years ago. It's not well handled by the government. And then you can put the blame on others and say that this is about municipalities and regions, and that you just have to lift your task and that the Ankestyrelsen has spoken. Yes, thank you, but when the problem continues, it should be a government's responsibility to seize this. I do not think that has been done, but now the Minister is saying that it is the Minister's intention to move towards the third reading to wipe out any ambiguity towards the work of the committee. I can promise you that we in the Social Democratic Party will keep the Minister up to that, because this has to end. Only yesterday I met someone from a municipal administration who says that Flemming, you must be able to do something about this. This fills up a lot in municipal administrations, because they are vulnerable families for adhd children, and they are desperate about what it takes. The fact that the child cannot fall asleep, the fact that they are unsure whether to give medication and perhaps have a skepticism about it, although the practitioner may say that this is a completely normal sleep hormone, and that we can try that, makes them insecure. You cannot understand why you cannot choose the lowest level of intervention, which is a ball duvet. They do not understand why the parties must be played off against each other in relation to a payment. I have now been given an outline of what is the position of the Socialist Group. This needs to be resolved and I think it is clearly a ministerial responsibility. That is already what I had clarified more than two years ago when we held a consultation convened by the Social Democratic Party. As I said, I would like to say to the SF that I think it is good that you have tabled the motion for a resolution. Apparently, it's necessary. But I think it should have been completely unnecessary. What we need to ensure is that clarity is there. And I was just going to google what a bullet duvet costs. A bullet duvet is not worn out by the fact that there is a citizen who has it. It can also be washed and reused. Including VAT, it costs just over 10,000 DKK. It outlines the perspective. What is it that we are required to deal with here at Christiansborg and solve in a welfare state like the Danish, where we as social democrats always have an eye for those who have the most difficulty in society? And we have such an eye for the families who have a child with a psychiatric diagnosis and where everyday life is really difficult to reconcile. It is paradoxical that we are out here politically in Denmark. I believe that the government bears the responsibility because it has been clarified over and over again. But I have to say to the SF that this is not a matter for us in the Folketing, but I am glad that you have tabled the motion for a resolution and that we have had the debate. But from the Socialist side we cannot support the resolution, because this is too detailed from in here. It has to be a government that takes responsibility in an area like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112832	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. We move on to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109112841	Thank you. Normally, when I stand in this Chamber talking about children and medicines, it is about children having to have medicines as they have otherwise been treated by a health care system. Today it is the other way around that it is about ensuring children the opportunity to avoid medication when there is a real alternative. As the system is screwed up today, there's a breeding ground for this box thinking, where patients don't necessarily get what's best for them because it's the wrong box that has to pay. This is not the first time we have encountered the problem of adhd, which is the agenda today; it has also been a problem in the past when we have talked about the treatment of diabetes in children who could not get glucose sensors because it was the wrong box to pay, although it was the right treatment for the child. This is another argument in the Danish People's Party's optics to rethink the structure of health care, but it is a different discussion. In the concrete example, we fully agree with the proposers that it should be ensured that children who have a real alternative to melatonin treatment should be offered the alternative, because children do not benefit from medication if there is a real alternative. All medicines have side effects, and of course you should avoid them if you can. That is why we will be working very productively in committee to find the way to solve this problem. And there we imagine that an opportunity could be a binding report so that we, together with the government, could solve this problem. Because, as I said earlier, this is not a problem that only affects children with adhd; it has also affected other patient groups in the past, and I can only imagine that if we do not solve the basic structural problem in this, others will get stuck forward. Therefore, it will be the position of the Danish People's Party that we will try to make a report that can oblige the government, together with the Folketing, to resolve this problem once and for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113116	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113126	First of all, I would like to thank the SF for raising the debate on how and on what terms we offer children today with adhd treatment and special relief for the symptoms that challenge those children. And let it be said straight away: in the Left, we are concerned that everyone, both children and adults, is being met by a cooperative, professional health service that offers high-quality treatment. We are also concerned that no one falls between two chairs. To fall between two chairs is in every way an indication that the system closes itself and overrides the one it is all about, namely the patient. And that is precisely why it is so crucial that we get rid of the silo thinking, create better coherence, knowledge and understanding between what is going on in the different layers of our healthcare from the doctor in general practice to the caseworker in the municipal office. After all, this is not the first time that we have discussed the use and allocation of ball duvets for Add children, nor is it the first time that we have discussed medicine and medicine for both children and adults in psychiatry. I have stressed in the past that we in the Left share the point of departure that medical treatment can rarely stand alone, whether you are a child or an adult. It must and must be the case, especially for children, that treatment starts with non-pharmacological agents or interventions, just as the National Clinical Guidelines of the Danish Health Authority on the investigation and treatment of adhd children indicate. If a child with adhd cannot sleep, yes, then it should be the case that you do not immediately resort to prescription block and sleeping medicine, but actually try other remedies. And it can be anything from good sleeping habits and good sleep hygiene, where the phone is put away and the light is dimmed, to the fact that the child is calm at all. With this proposal, the SF wants to ensure that children with an add-diagnosis are right or are entitled to a ball duvet when granted by e.g. a doctor in psychiatry. And SF kicks in an open door, for that is the law today. The region has both processing responsibilities and extradition responsibilities when a bullet duvet is granted as part of the treatment. And if a general practitioner considers that e.g. An adhd child can benefit from a treatment with a bullet duvet, so the doctor can refer to a specialist or to the hospital. And although the legislation is in place, I would like to admit that we have seen some sad examples that the region and the municipality cannot agree with each other on who takes responsibility. And that's not gonna work because who's the loser? It's the patient. The problem is known, and fortunately the government has with the initiative of health, where you have indicated that a solution is being worked on. After all, the reform of health is on the way, and since we are still drawing new lines between the responsibilities of municipalities and regions and general practice, it may also be relevant to consider whether this issue should not be included in this work. The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution as tabled, but we can support a joint report, which the DF's rapporteur also mentioned, if there is an interest among the other parties in such a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113438	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113444	Thank you. And thank you also for the rapporteur's support for resolving the problem, that is to say, no matter how, the problem must be resolved. As the rapporteur says, the problem still exists. There are still far too many parents who end up with the municipality with their problem and their message that it takes a prescription to get a bullet duvet. And reference is still being made to decisions of principle by the Ankestyrelsen. Then I hear that the rapporteur says that in the government's health reform, this problem will have been identified and resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113532	Yes, you certainly heard the rapporteur say that the government has stated earlier with the play-out "Health where you are" that a solution to the problem will be sought. I also think very much that the Minister from the platform just now actually came out with an outstretched hand. That is actually what I heard from the Minister, and I am delighted in every way. We in the Left recognise that there is a problem, and I hear that the government is doing the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113605	I would also, of course, like to acknowledge that I can hear the rapporteur standing on the floor saying that we would like to continue talking about this. It's just really important for me to stress that we've been talking for a very long time for years and still haven't solved the problem, so this time it just has to succeed. And if we can agree on that, I don't care how we can solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113627	Well, from the left, we'd be happy to work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113633	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113640	Thank you to the rapporteur. In any case, there is a clear recognition that the government has not done well enough. I can hear that from the rapporteur of the Left, and that is at least right from the point of view of a social democratic interpretation. We have waited several years and we have also waited several years for a comprehensive plan for the close coherence of health care, and this is clearly where the government is going to solve this. I have a question for the rapporteur about something that the Minister actually mentioned. If this is to be prescribed, i.e. if a bullet duvet is to be prescribed as an aid, then it is about the service law, but should it not be the case that the country's 3,400 practitioners can say: we have an adhd child who has sleeping problems, and we should try with a bullet duvet? Should it not just be quite common for a general practitioner to be able to do so when, with his professionalism, he or she considers that action should be taken here rather than a medical practitioner having to refer to a specialist in the hospital and that the region will then have to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113735	Let me start by saying to the Socialist rapporteur that I do not, in fact, find it very sympathetic to put words in my mouth that I have not said. I fully recognise the efforts made by the government in the field of health. I am delighted that the Minister for Health has just stood here with an outstretched hand. I have recognised, on behalf of the Left, that there is a problem we need to resolve. There are some social and health problems. We're gonna have to solve these intersect problems. I have also heard the Minister of Health say, also qua the play called "Health where you are" that the problem needs to be solved. I am also sorry that this issue has not yet been resolved, but sometimes things are not so easy and straightforward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113826	The questioner, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113831	Scratch problems may sound nicer than problems. By the citizens, this is not seen as an area problem, but as a problem in everyday life. And I can only interpret it as meaning that the rapporteur of the Left says that this has not been resolved sufficiently quickly. At any rate, I remember what commitments I received from both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Health, when I had both ministers in consultation on 24 January 2016, because both ministers at that time expressed the view that this problem should be resolved, and that has not been resolved yet. And now we wait again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109113912	I would just like to stress again to the Socialist rapporteur that I find it unsympathetic to put words in my mouth that I have not said. We fully recognise from the Left that there is a challenge. We also fully recognise that when patients fall between two chairs, that is not right. It's the patient who's the loser. Those issues need to be resolved. We fully acknowledge that. I welcome the fact that the Minister for Health has been standing here in the Chair a moment ago. I would like to repeat that and raise my hand to a solution. We are happy to take part on the part of the Left in a joint report, which can point in the right direction, in the hope that we can find a solution together, including with the government. I would just like to stress once again that I am quite confident that when the government expresses itself in a health issue, health where you are, that you will find a solution to the problem, that is the ambition. For no patient should fall between two chairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109114011	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109114021	Thank you. It is incredibly depressing to hear that children with adhd and their parents experience that they become throwing ball between municipalities and regions, in relation to who has to pay a ball duvet, when that is what is the right help or the right treatment for the child. It just needs to be resolved, and therefore much praise to the SF for not only putting forward this motion for a resolution, but at all to pursue this matter with great perseverance, and of course also to others who have also contributed to it. To this extent, I agree with the Minister when she says that it would be a little strange if very specific legislation were to be made on exactly ball duvets in relation to the treatment of children with adhd who suffer from insomnia. I do not think that we need to read the proposal in this way, because there is nothing in the proposal that it should be legislation that states that the Folketing requires the government to make a proposal. I understand it as being wide. It may also be a proposal that solves this problem in a different way than legislation, and in this way there is really room for manoeuvre to solve this problem, which I hear all the parties in the Folketing agree to be resolved. I think it would be a really strong signal to send a strong signal if a majority in the Folketing were to adopt this proposal, a strong signal to the parents and children who are facing these problems, a strong signal to the municipalities and regions who are fighting over who is to pay the bill. And, of course, it takes a subsequent job for the parties here in the Folketing and for the government to find out what it takes to make sure that you also have a guarantee that you get the ball duvet that you need. So let us meet quickly and talk about how it can be shaped. We are not afraid to vote in favour of this proposal if it comes to the House. I think that it offers a great deal of flexibility to find a real solution and, as I said, I also think that it would be a real, really strong signal to send.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109114226	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109114234	Thank you. I believe that all political parties can support the granting of a bullet duvet or chain duvet to ADHD affected children if the duvet can solve sleep problems. This is a very good ambition, and you should not fill young people with medicines unless it is strictly necessary for the child's development and well-being. When there have been major problems in this area, and there have been, it is mainly due to a problem of silo between the region and the municipality, which causes patients to end up in a vacuum. However, the solution can be found within existing rules, and so must be the case, and regions and municipalities simply have to stop thinking about the cash and silos that affect patients. So I agree with the SF on the issue, and it certainly needs to be dealt with better, but as I said, there are already rules for it, and that is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal, although we therefore agree that the problem is there, but simply not that this proposal is the solution. We do not believe that it should be regulated in detail in here at Christiansborg. The assessment must be carried out by professionals, and if it is assessed that the child has the best of a ball duvet, the child must of course have it, also with him home, if that is what the assessment is, and medicine should never just be the first choice per automatic. If there is a mood for a report, as I heard Mrs Jane Heitmann mention it, I think it is a very good idea, and we would like to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109114425	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Alternative, and that is Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109114431	Thank you. Up to 40%. of the medicine prescribed in children's and young psychiatry is either not approved for children or for the diseases of the children. This appeared in a scientific article in the Weekwriting for Doctors in 2016. I have previously called for consultation that so many children are given adult medicine that you do not actually know how to work on children and what side effects and long-term effects it has. In 5 years, for example, the number of children and young people who were prescribed sleeping medicines doubled. Children with special difficulty sleeping could receive support in the past for a ball duvet, which in many cases helps to get the children to sleep. As I mentioned in my question to the Minister, the Board of Appeal made a decision in 2015, which is seen in the systems as having put an end to choosing the ball duvet as a first choice. Children are therefore treated with medicines, contrary to what is actually in the legislation, before they are awarded a bullet duvet, and it seems very wrong that as a society we use medicine as the first choice for children. It is heartbreaking, in my opinion, that in our health care we are thus gambling with the health and future of our children by giving them adult medicine, and it is frightening that we are giving children medicines that we do not know the long-term effects of, because it is intended for adults, but therefore without knowing the effects. So one of our goals in the Alternative is to develop more non-medical treatments in children's and young people's psychiatry and to do more preventive measures to deal with the early symptoms of children and young people, even before they have a real psychiatric illness. I believe that we are obliged to try non-medical methods first, and children should not have adult medicine, because they are not small adults, and medicines should never be the first choice. We have also heard the Minister make that clear today, and I am very pleased that the Minister has made this clear because there is obviously a great deal of confusion out there. It is also frightening that we have doctors who, as the first choice, prescribe medicines that we do not know the long-term effects of because it is intended for adults. We must put an end to this, because children must not be used as involuntary test subjects for adult medicine, and we must, as I have just mentioned, use non-medical methods more in relation to children. There is legislation in this area, but we believe that in practice there is ambiguity, and that is why I would also like to thank the SF for having tabled this motion for a resolution, and that we need to find out these two legal complexes, which in some way create ambiguity, in terms of how to act in practice. Not only can we support a report, but we will also be able to support the Enhedslisten's proposal to put it to the vote. I am pleased that the Minister also puts it on the agenda as something that is very important to resolve.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109114820	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. I do not see anyone from the Radical Left, and then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Erik Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109114834	Thank you. I do not think anyone can disagree with the fact that, as a child with adhd or for that matter, all other diagnoses should be sure to receive the relevant medical treatment in our health care. This also applies, of course, to children with severe sleep problems due to addd and where there is a health assessment that the child needs a ball duvet. It is, of course, unfortunate, as several people have said, that cases are constantly appearing where a region or a municipality does not meet its obligations to hand over the health care tools that have been found relevant or where the economy is involved and where it is not possible to find out whether it is the municipality or the region that has to pay. It is simply too bad, and it must not be possible to do so. It cannot be right for a citizen, a child, to be caught up because a municipality or region cannot find out about this. I think the Minister has also said that we need to find out how this does not happen in the future. However, I am pleased and satisfied that the government has already announced that there must be an update of the rules and that there must be a reorganisation in this area, because it needs an adjustment. However, the Conservative People's Party cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109114951	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109115009	In fact, I would like to start by thanking you for the many positive statements. I actually expected that we would all agree that this problem is a problem that we need to resolve. In the spring, I myself took part in a very well-visited debate which unfortunately showed that children with difficulty sleeping or with motor problems due to, for example, Adhd is still being forced to test medical treatment, typically Melatonin, before granting non-medical treatment. For example, the use of bullet duvets is a much less intrusive treatment than medicine. Everyone agrees on that. So why is it so hard to make it happen in real life? One in three children with adhd experience massive sleep problems. It affects the child's well-being in everyday life, but of course it also affects the rest of the family. I have received a great many inquiries from parents who are despairing that they should medicate their child and not be allowed to try non-medical treatment until they have tried medication. It's a huge dilemma for these parents. It is a decision of principle in the Ankestyrelsen, which prevents the municipalities from granting aid to a ball duvet or other similar devices, unless they have first tried medical treatment for the children, which the doctor is responsible for, and thus the task is also in the regions. This forces a great many sick children to an excessively intrusive form of treatment, not least if the family is unsuspected and cannot buy the relatively expensive duvets themselves to avoid or limit the medical treatment. It simply does not make sense that medical treatment is the first thing we resort to when it comes to children, especially when experts confirm that in many cases a bullet duvet would do more good. Therefore, we also propose that there should be a right to obtain a bullet duvet from the region, provided that a psychiatrist or a general medicine specialist has examined the child and assessed that the child has the advantage of sleeping with the ball duvet. We agree that this is actually the case today, but in practice a great many parents are referred to the municipalities, who then refer to a doctor who has to prescribe some medicine that must have been tested before a bullet duvet can be granted. We have discussed it many times and changing health ministers have agreed that medical treatment should not be the first choice. And yet the parents are still met with the same requirement here that medical treatment must be tested with reference to the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. It just doesn't make sense. In the SF we therefore insist that once and for all we resolve the problem, that medical treatment should never be the first choice when there are some other and better alternatives to children. We're not concerned about how we solve the problem, but we're just concerned about how we solve it. After all, the dynamic effects are enormous when we can not give children medicines, but above all we are concerned that parents should not spend their energies on something that is so simple and that we all agree on. So I would like to thank the Minister for admitting that the problem must be resolved. I agree with my colleagues in the Committee on Health that it should not be necessary to table this motion for a resolution, but I have also noted that several consultations and several issues have not yet solved the problem for everyone, so it is not important for the SF how to resolve the problem. It is important for the SF that we solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109115353	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109115424	The debate is open. We shall begin by giving the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109115433	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that the Social Democratic Party supports the overall aim of the draft law. We think it is wise that electricity generation on biomass should be supported with an amount corresponding to the extra costs of using biomass rather than coal, for example, which is damaging the climate much more. And then you could say that it is relatively simple. That is why I believe that the discussion we are going to have today will be more concerned with how we can ensure that the changes we are making now do not lead to excessive price increases for heat consumers or businesses affected by the change that is going to take place. For the Social Democratic Party, it is essential to respect investments already made. It is a good political principle that legislation should not be changed so that municipalities, companies or others who have invested in the green transition will be caught up in the future. It is, of course, crucial that heat consumers do not have to pay for new policy decisions to be taken. That is why we are pleased that the Minister has already proposed that some flexibility be created, such as for example. on Funen will help some heat consumers who could otherwise have ended up with a very large heating bill. But we're not quite there yet. There are still places away on the Copenhagen West Region and in East Jutland, where I come from myself, and elsewhere where the heating bills can be disproportionately large. That is why we have seen with social democratic spectacles the need for a transitional regime that is flexible enough not to send very large heating bills, extra bills, to heat consumers. That is why we really believe, and this should be my call today, that there might be a good need for a negotiating meeting. I hope that the Minister may be able to give an undertaking today to call one of these after the first reading, because, if I may say so briefly, we agree with the long-term vision that we should turn down support for biomass and only make the difference that is, like price, when producing on more climate-friendly biomass than on coal. However, we also want a transitional regime to ensure that it is not the heat consumers who have to pay a disproportionate proportion of the bill for changing the political signals. I have promised to greet Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, the SF rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here today, and to say that she agrees with the point of departure of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109115711	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Mikkel Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109115723	Thank you, President. The draft law here, L 78, is, of course, in addition to what the previous rapporteur, Mr von der Vring, has said. Jens Joel mentioned the first draft law in the series of implementations of the energy agreement which the Danish Parliament's parties entered into right here before the summer holiday, and of which the Danish People's Party is also a part. I would say that, in the case of the Danish People's Party, we are happy with the energy agreement that we have concluded. It points in exactly the right direction for Denmark. Of course, we support the legislation that is needed to implement it. Having said that, however, there has also been a great deal of criticism in the consultation answers and also in the public debate about, in particular, the transitional regime proposed by the government with the bill here. And, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, it seems that some areas of the country will be affected by higher heat prices, among other things. The West, but also East Jutland and Herning, I have heard may be hit by unintentionally higher heat bills as a result of the transitional arrangements proposed here. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party would also like to call on the government to sit down together and discuss and negotiate some adjustments to the transitional regime which can take account of the criticisms made in the hearings and elsewhere. Because we have to abide by the rules that are now in place. And when the great boss in Brussels has said that the present system must cease, then we have to comply with it. Whether you like it or not, these are the conditions that apply. However, when we need to link up a transitional regime, this must of course be done in a way that does not have unintended consequences and leads to higher heating bills for consumers. So, on the part of the Danish People's Party, I must say that we agree with the basic intentions of the draft law here, but we would like to have a discussion and a debate with the government on the transitional regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109115947	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109115952	Well, I think that is an excellent approach, and perhaps we should look at what real economic consequences this bill has for every major district heating area in Denmark, and whether there are some that are badly treated with this scheme. I also see that, yes, there is an energy agreement, and then there are four lines in the agreement which must then be translated into a law and how do you do so? So, of course, we are bound by the fact that we have an energy agreement, but there must be the possibility that we can adjust to what has now been presented, based on the intentions of the energy agreement. I would very much like us to have a thorough discussion on whether this is the time to look at solutions other than incineration alone. It could, for example, be done. We should be able to look at some works here and say whether it is not geothermal that should be promoted, rather than just looking at whether to burn one thing or the other. Does the rapporteur see that perhaps we should look a little wider at solutions for individual works and that geothermal for some utilities could be a solution that needs to be introduced now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120059	I have to say that I had not thought myself in the way Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is coming in now. I agree with the first many sentences that Mr. Egge Rasmussen said, namely that what we are discussing here today in the Folketing is the coinage of four lines in the energy conciliation, which is not very detailed. So it is, of course, a debate we can enter into here on how we should translate the wording of the energy agreement. If sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen has some fantastic ideas on how to approach the transitional arrangements, so let's hear about it when we meet in more informal contexts to discuss this here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120143	The questioner for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120145	Well, I would also like to discuss in public. You have to say that our energy agreement may be obsolete if you look at what an agreement has been made in Aarhus, where you now have to start drilling for geothermal energy. It may be a solution that ensures warm water for hundreds of thousands of Aarhusians. What if there are other works around the country that are also moving into that track and thus have to do something where they do not only look at what it is that is being given for the burning of biomass, but that it might be a better solution for us to get them onto other heat energy sources? Does the rapporteur not see it in that aspect?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120223	But it will always be the case that the things that were agreed yesterday are partly obsolete today because there has been a development since then. But perhaps to say that the energy agreement at the end of June is out of date today is perhaps to speak loudly. But of course there is a development, and I have also noted the agreement that has been made in Aarhus about geothermal.I think so because there are many exciting perspectives in it. Whether this is exactly something that can be transferred to the bill here, I cannot just take a stand on it. But let's talk about it when we've had time to think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120257	Thank you. So there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120307	Thank you. And thank you to the previous rapporteurs for having examined the bill. With this bill, L 78, we support the energy agreement of June 29, 2018. We're gonna put it down, among other things. up to abolish the applicable aid scheme of 15 øre per year. kilowatt-hour for electricity generation by burning biomass. We do this because state aid approval expires on 31 December. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law introduces a temporary aid scheme so that existing biomass plants, which have not yet been written off, continue to be eligible for aid. The aid may be received for 20 years for plants established as biomass and 15 years for plants converted into a biomass plant. Then, of course, there is the possibility of supporting in addition to the 15 or 20 years if reinvestment has subsequently taken place. Of course, investments in installations that have not yet been written off must continue to be secured. As I have said, the draft law is a hand in hand with the existing works, which, after all, will be able to receive support for many years to come with this bill. Overall, this bill thus ensures an appropriate expansion of renewable energy sources, and on this basis the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120444	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120507	Thank you. The Enhedslisten stands by that we are in this energy agreement where there are four lines that relate to existing biomass for electricity generation. The four sentences must then be translated into a 50-page bill today. We also stand by the fact that we are in an existing energy settlement where we have failed to introduce a biomass tax. In other words, we are facing an energy policy in which we continue to drive down a blind road and where we spend millions on patching holes in the asphalt on this blind road. After all, we know that biomass is a transitional fuel and that at some point we have to move to something that is really sustainable, really sustainable. So if you can spend less millions on this blind road patching asphalt and entering another road, a sustainable road, that is interesting. One has to say that if you look at what is happening out there after we have concluded the energy agreement, you can see that there has been a breakthrough in Aarhus, where we have now come to the conclusion that there are two actors who would like to help district heating companies develop geothermal energy, and where the company that has agreed with the municipality of Aarhus has come to take the risk. We are faced with the possibility that there may be 100,000 archipelagos who can get geothermal into their radiator in a relatively short space of time. I think there is good reason to consider whether the aid scheme provided by the draft law is the best solution alone, or whether it is not the case that we should also look at whether this money could be better spent to help some of these existing bio-incineration plants to other technical solutions. It may well be that we have to take it very hand-held down on each district heating supply area and look at what the existing agreements are and where it is possible to make a conversion faster. I think we owe that kind of thing. I am well aware that the energy agreement is relatively new, but it is also new that an agreement has been reached in Aarhus in October. What are the consequences of this agreement in terms of giving inspiration to other supply areas where it is well known that biomass has to be phased out at some point? I think that is worth discussing. Whether this is going to be done in the energy agreement circle or it is going to be done in the context of this legal procedure, I am completely open to it. After all, the minister must choose the best solution for these discussions. Because I am well aware that this is probably something that needs to be a little too closed. But I think what has happened in Aarhus is thought-provoking, and the Minister has been close to that in connection with the conclusion of the agreement. So I think we should look a little further at this bill and see if there are no better solutions than what is outlined in the bill. We are in favour of the energy agreement we have made, but we are also completely open to the fact that if there is something better for society, it will be a plus. Then I think it is a little diffuse how this bill affects district heating prices outside consumers, and it would really be good if we had this clarified through the committee procedure. What are the consequences of this bill for district heating prices in the various areas of Denmark? We have taken note of the fact that some people are looking for the Energy Committee and will be presenting why this draft law in their area is causing particular problems. We are completely open to looking at whether the cut is put in the right way. We can see that if there are works that have started to burn off biomass at a very low level, to a very small extent at the beginning, then it can count in these years, perhaps in an unreasonable way. I think we should look at that and I think we should be open to whether there will be input, which means making adjustments to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120913	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109120925	Thank you. The reason why we are introducing a new aid scheme for electricity produced from biomass is, of course, that it is a bottom-up task. The current aid scheme will expire next April and it will not be possible to continue the aid in the same way. In the Liberal Alliance, we generally believe that all public support for green electricity should be phased out as it becomes cheaper to produce and that it should stop altogether when production can take place under market conditions. But, of course, it is also an independent task to ensure stable investment conditions in the industry without any political slingshop. It will only bring about one thing: a huge increase in prices for consumers. The rapporteurs before me have already explained more about the technical details of the proposed aid scheme, so I will not go down in that, but just emphasise that it has been important for the Liberal Alliance to be able to receive support in future only if a real additional cost can be demonstrated by producing electricity with biomass rather than other fuels. At the same time, it is positive that the Minister has listened to the criticisms made by the industry and has included an extended transitional regime. All in all, this is a good arrangement which will phase out the support that it is designed today and which, at the same time, meets the political ambition of the energy agreement not to pull the curtain away under existing installations and investments. That is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109121048	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109121058	Thank you. There have been large investments in the Danish energy industry in conversion to use a lot of solid biomass. This is an issue which is important and which we have dealt with a great deal in the energy negotiations, which ended in a conciliation this summer. For us in the Alternative, it is important that we reduce the additional investments in biomass for cogeneration. This part of the energy settlement is about a small corner of it. As a starting point, we support this bill, because it is precisely the implementation of the energy conciliation that we are involved in. It is similar to something that, as a starting point, is a balance that has been struck between economic security for existing investments and, at the same time, something that can continue to dampen the biomass build-up. However, there are some aspects of transitional arrangements and also, as some rapporteurs have pointed out, the latest developments, for example. in the direction of geothermal and also heat pumps, which may need to meet again, either in the conciliation circle or in the context of committee work, to try to see if we can adjust in so that it becomes an even more optimal solution to this corner of the energy conciliation. So we are also happy to take part in such negotiations, but we therefore support the proposal as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109121236	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109121245	When we look at Denmark's future energy supply, we radically want it to be completely green. We have had a goal that by 2030 all electricity and all heat should simply be green energy, so that you cannot turn on a power outlet or heater without it being green energy coming out, and we got really far in the energy agreement: we are going to achieve the goal in terms of electricity. We do not quite measure up in terms of heat, among other things. because we still have waste incineration in Denmark, and then we also have the point that we have to talk honestly about biomass in Denmark. Because it is not all biomass that is green and what is not actually sustainable that we keep creating heat by burning things. So we want a global heat vision for Denmark, where you start to see if you can actually switch to geothermal, that is to say, to pull hot water out of the ground, to switch to heat pumps, to ensure that when there is sun and wind in excess, it can enter the heating sector and be stored in these heat pumps, and you can also see if there is excess heat in the industry that can enter the heating system. In other words, we actually have to separate electricity and heat production as far as possible in order to make this completely green. We simply have to stop burning things off as soon as we can, and it is not just a question of that being what we have to do. We've got 10 to 12 years to change all our spending. We have a climate challenge that has moved so close to us that we can no longer sit and say that it is our great-grandchildren or grandchildren who have to deal with this, because it is us. That is why, for reasons of principle, but also for reasons of climate, I think it is a good thing that today we stop supporting biomass extra. The biomass is already supported in Denmark in such a way that it is the only fuel that is exempt. So adding extra support to biomass was necessary for a period when we tried to get away from coal, but of course we should not continue to do so forever. That is why we think it is a good thing that the Minister is putting forward this proposal. We also think that the transitional arrangements that have been found are quite reasonable and, of course, my hope is that companies will choose a responsible transition so that they do not pass it all over to consumers if they actually have opportunities to plan differently. So we would like to keep up with this. But we can support the proposal as it stands from a radical point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109121508	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur, and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109121518	Thank you for that, President. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal that we have here today, L 78. After all, it is a legislative proposal and the implementation of the Energy Agreement we concluded on 29 June 2018. After all, it is an historic agreement in which we have all the parties of the Folketing, and an ambitious agreement we have made, where this is a small corner of the agreement. After all, for many years we have been providing support for the generation of biomass, and that is the support we are now phasing out. After all, we have an aid that helps to increase the Danish share of renewable energy quite considerably, and there have been various agreements with the sector as far back as 1993. Today we have a scheme where we give 15 cents for each kilowatt-hour to produce electricity by burning biomass at cogeneration plants. The State aid clearance of the 15 ear runs out on 1 April 2019. That is why we have a basic task in finding a solution in this area. We also need to phase out and step up support for green electricity as we get more and cheaper green energy. After all, we now have a technology-neutral offer on wind turbines and in relation to sunshine. We are, of course, stepping off in a proper way so that we do not pull away the carpet under the existing plants. We have reached an agreement with the European Commission, which provides for the possibility to support existing installations for 15 to 20 years after 1 April 2019. The installations that have been built or rebuilt since the Energy Agreement 2012 have been secured by this Agreement support up to 2030 and, for some, to 2039. So the changes take place with respect for the investments made at the plants and, in the context of the consultation, a scheme has been included in the draft law which allows for the extension of the support period for works that have invested and reinvested in recent years. The bill also provides support for written works. There is support for the additional costs incurred by the plants to produce cogeneration and biomass compared to a fossil alternative. The proposal envisages a reduction in aid to existing plants as the respective depreciation period expires, but a further 7 billion is expected. kr. Until 2030. This is a very good arrangement for the existing works, and the Conservative People's Party is involved in discussing the matter now in committee, if there are any corners we need cut to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109121826	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109121835	Thank you for that, President. I thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. I am very pleased that we are now dealing with this legislative proposal. It is a question of putting the energy agreement of June into practice and ensuring that the framework is in place, as we have agreed. It is worth recalling the background to this bill and why it is necessary. For many years, financial support has been given for electricity generation from biomass, and this aid has helped to increase the Danish share of renewable energy quite considerably. There have been various agreements with the sector since 1993 and various aid schemes. Today we have a scheme that we call daily the 15-øre, which provides 15 cents in support for every kilowatt-hour produced by burning biomass at cogeneration plants. The State aid approval of the operator 15 will expire on 1 April next year. That is why we need to do something and, at the same time, it is clear that we cannot continue the aid in the same way. We also need to phase out and step up support for green electricity as we get more and more of it and as it becomes cheaper and cheaper to make it. The phasing-out and phasing-out must, of course, be done in a proper way so that we do not pull away the curtain under the existing plants. A good agreement has been reached with the European Commission, which provides precisely for the possibility of providing support for existing installations for 15 or 20 years, also after 1 April 2019. The installations that have been built or rebuilt since the Energy Agreement in 2012 have been secured with this agreement support until 2030 and for some as far as 2039. So the changes we are making now are taking place with full respect for the investments that have been made. We're not pulling the blanket under anyone. In the light of the consultation, a scheme has also been included in the draft law which allows for the extension of the period of support for works which have been reinvested in recent years. In addition, the draft law also provides support for the works which have been written. Support may be granted to the works written off for the additional costs incurred by the plants to produce cogeneration on biomass compared to a fossil alternative. The bill has been the subject of some criticism. Among other things: some believe that the draft law is retroactive. In my opinion, this is quite unfair criticism. The plants which will cease in the near future have already received aid for 15 or 20 years and, as I have said, the plants which have been established in recent years have the prospect of continuing support for many years to come. The draft law envisages a reduction in support for existing plants as they reach the end of their respective depreciation periods, but a further 7 billion support expenditure is expected. kr. Until 2030, when we use the assumptions in the base projection 2018. So, in my opinion, this is a very good arrangement for existing works. But it is also clear that some political signals have been given. The rapporteurs of the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, Jens Joel and Mikkel Dencker, have both said that they want us to have a discussion on the transitional arrangements. I'm ready to do that, and that's why I'm gonna call you guys to a meeting before the bill goes to the second reading. Then I would like to thank you for the interest shown in the proposal for a directive in Things today and ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122214	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122221	I also think it is sensible to have a debate before the second reading. There are, among other things, here. some comments from works that say that they started using very little biomass and that those years count when you have to calculate the 15 years. Is that fair or not? There are also comments that district heating in Randers will be 1.500-2.000 DKK. More expensive a year by this bill, the transitional arrangements. Is that fair for that work? I think it would be appropriate to discuss this. Then it says in the submission: "For existing biomass plants, which are no longer eligible to receive the 15 øre price premium per year. kWh, proposed introduction of a new operating aid scheme. This new scheme ensures that the installations covered can recover the additional cost by using biomass for electricity generation in relation to a comparable fossil reference. There I think you should also look at references other than the purely fossil. Isn't that where we should look at how the economy would be if this work converted into something more geothermal? Can the Minister not see the reasonableness of spreading it a little, so that we also get the geothermal into this process and debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122333	Thank you for the question. Firstly, with regard to the transitional arrangements, I would like to say that, as I said before, I would like to call for a debate on the question: what are the options? It is, of course, absolutely essential that we respect the EU's state aid rules on the one hand and ensure that aid is phased out, and finally, in relation to the energy agreement, there is an overall economy that we have to deal with. But I am prepared to discuss it, in other words to look at it here and ensure that the scheme is as strong as it should be; that we also have a look at the series of local examples, in terms of what the implications of the bill are; and that we also give the conciliation circle the opportunity to gain insight into the calculations. Then, with regard to the geothermal issue, I would like to say that I think what is good and that I support it. Fortunately, with the energy agreement and thus with the lightening of the electric heating tax, some more attractive conditions have been created in relation to being able to convert to geothermal. I think that is quite, quite reasonable. After all, what is proposed in the draft law here is to provide support for the plants in the future, that is to say, with the additional costs of the alternative which for a number of the plants would be a fossil alternative, namely coal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122444	The questioner, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122446	Yes, but in the energy agreement there are also some things about us having to re-evaluate everything if the changes to the electricity tariffs do not mean that the geothermal system is going through. However, it may well be that the reality that existed when we made the energy agreement has been overtaken by the new players who would like to drill after geothermal for municipalities and make agreements, so that the municipalities do not have the financial risk. I think it is very relevant that we should get it involved in the discussions before the second reading of this proposal. Does the Minister not see that aspect?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122517	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. I can see that. I am prepared for us to also discuss the issue which Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen goes up here and looks at it a little bit. That's quite relevant. Now it has come to Aarhus, and my impression is that there are several places in the country where there could be an interest in geothermal energy. Let's have a look at the possibilities. After all, I have discussed and discussed with a number of the major cities and the places where there are considerations of geothermal energy, what it is like in relation to what is now included in Aalborg and other places where alternatives to biomass and coal are also looked at. And there I am concerned that, of course, we ensure that there are reasonable framework conditions for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122552	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122557	Thank you. I am sure that we can have good discussions on how to get more geothermal in too. Now this is primarily a legislative proposal aimed at the electricity generation part, and the geothermal area is not as directly relevant. Therefore, what is really our message here is how to prevent what is going on in relation to electricity generation from having an unfortunate effect on the heating customers who are going to take off the heat. And that is why I actually wanted to take the floor and acknowledge that the Minister has listened to, among other things. our desire to have another round of negotiations. We will, of course, look forward to this, and we are constructively entering that round of negotiations, but also with an ambition to ensure such a flexible transitional regime, so that we avoid excessive heating bills for consumers out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122647	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel for the comments. I am very concerned about the fact that we are, of course, living up to the energy agreement. We agree on this and comply with the state aid rules, including the expiry of the agreement that is there; and that we ensure that this is done in a proper way. I am very aware of the comments made by a number of the parties today, and I think it is quite reasonable that we should have a discussion before the second reading on the consequences of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122713	There is no one else on the list, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109122746	I would point out that votes on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 13 November 2018. We are dragging it for a moment until everyone has got the right pressure on the rapporteur's seats to be taken. This is being done at the moment. We're just waiting for a clear message. Are we all in position? There's just one missing. I think that we are all in place and then we can resume the sitting and the debate. We shall begin by giving the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the questions, and that is Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109123134	Thank you very much. During the autumn, pension funds, economic wise men, employers and trade unions have warned against the current increases in retirement age. We have also been presented with figures showing an increase in the proportion of seniors on benefit, sickness benefit and early retirement already with the current retirement age of 65 years. There are times when the media are asking this question, but if the conciliation parties behind this legislation believe that then the sacred grave is well-preserved and that they can continue to raise the retirement age without going into conflict with the electorate, then they are horribly wrong. If you travel just a little among ordinary people, you can be in no doubt that there is a great wonder and a great anger about the prospect that you will have to retire only when you are 70 years of age or more. This is supported by a measurement that Weekly Letter A4 brought on September 7 this year. 52 per cent say that the retirement age should not be increased to the 67 years that a majority in this House has already decided to increase in the period from 2019 to 2022. I think they're 52 percent. I would very much appreciate it if we could have another discussion on this issue. That is the least we can do so that these many people can see that we take their situation seriously. The Enhedslisten has therefore called for a question debate which reads as follows: "What can the Minister say about the conciliation obligations regarding increases in retirement age and the consequences it has for employees forced out of the labour market long before retirement age, either because they have worn down physically or mentally, or because they do not have the necessary qualifications? ▪ Why is it important also to clarify the conciliation obligations? Because it is important for the electorate to know what it is actually a majority in here has tied each other up and which parties that majority consists of. For there are some parties who would like to give the impression that they are opposed to a further increase in the retirement age, although this is actually not the case. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109123344	Thank you. Then we give the floor to Mr. the Minister of Employment for Response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109123355	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the questioners for allowing this debate to take place. In fact, we had it earlier, six months ago, but this is a good opportunity to take it back. I would like to start by saying that I am very concerned to ensure that as many people as possible are and become part of the working community. Fortunately, the Danes today live longer than previous generations, also healthier, and in the future the Danes are expected to live even longer. It's actually a really good story in every way. Recently, we have just seen that ATP has adjusted its lifespan model and that the Danes' lifespan has increased. This is a good and positive development, but we also need to adapt our society to the fact that people are getting older, so that society can continue to take care of those who need it. In this way it will be the case that everyone can have a safe and proper old age. When we all live longer, the elderly also retire several years; that goes without saying. Therefore, here in the Folketing, we adopted a broad settlement between the then government and the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left Welfare Agreement in 2006. We agreed at that time to increase the retirement age and to introduce an indexation mechanism so that a longer life span will also give years in the labour market. The lifetime indexing was confirmed by the withdrawal reform in 2011 by the same parties. In 2015, we reached a new settlement which confirmed the current rules on lifetime indexing of the retirement age. This happened when the current government and the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left raised the retirement age to 68 years from 2030. There is therefore broad political support for the lifetime indexing, which I believe is a key element in our overall pension system. This means that our pension system is designed in such a way that all pensioners are guaranteed a dignified old age. It is an element of our pension system in which other countries find interesting and also inspiration, since it helps to create what one might call a very modern welfare society. With the increasing life expectancy and better health among seniors, there is potential to strengthen the employment rate. Fortunately, we also see that more and more people choose to work longer. We have, for example. In recent years there has been a marked increase in the proportion of people employed aged 60-64, and this is due to the fact that life expectancy is generally increasing. A 60-year-old unskilled and a 60-year-old with a shorter or longer-term education can expect to live longer today than before. This means, for example, that if you were born in 1946, you can expect to live until you become 86. And if you were born in 1976, which I can mention is actually a golden vintage, since I myself belong to the 1976 year, you can expect to live until you become 90, compared to what ATP has estimated. The government and the Danish People's Party set up a number of companies. Therefore, as part of the "Agreement for several years on the labour market" in May 2018 a senior think tank for a longer and good senior work life. The senior think tank should look at how to increase the quality of senior work and support a continued increase in employment. The senior think tank will examine how seniors can be maintained in the labour market more than they are today, and how employment efforts for unemployed seniors can be strengthened. As you know, it is Harald Børsting, the former chairman of the LO, who is directing this work, and I look forward very much to following the recommendations that may come from the think tank in the run-up to the summer of 2019. The government would like to support the idea that more older people will have the opportunity to stay longer in the labour market. A longer life span also means that the savings of many pensioners must be stretched over a longer pension life. This requires that the individual saves more in order to maintain roughly the same standard of living throughout his pension life. The individual will do so, among other things. could do by staying a little longer on the labour market. It is therefore also good that there are already a number of schemes which support the attractiveness of seniors to stay longer in the labour market. I am thinking here, among other things. the tax-free premium under the early retirement scheme and the possibility of continuing to work while receiving a national pension, or of suspending the pension and thereby obtaining financial benefits. However, I am well aware that the economic incentives do not, of course, do so alone. Some simply lack the skills required in the labour market. That is why, as part of the employment reform, we introduced a number of initiatives for the insured unemployed with few competences. These initiatives shall include: help seniors and other unemployed people to focus on real skills and more job-oriented education and thus hopefully also help them closer to the labour market and ultimately in jobs. In the tripartite agreement of last year, we also developed the change of track so that employees in worn-out industries will be much better able to participate in retraining courses. Having said that, it is also quite clear that it must be ensured that you can go safely and healthily to work in Denmark, and many Danish companies will of course also have a good working environment. Nevertheless, we have to note that developments in key areas have shown that it can be better than it is today. In the period from 2012 to 2016, there has been an increase of approx. 15% in the proportion of employees who report that they are exposed to physical stress in their work while experiencing pain and fatigue. It exists despite the fact that it has been a political priority over the period to reduce the proportion of physically burdened people. As the Danish Parliament is also aware, the government has already taken initiatives on this basis and a committee of experts has been set up, which on 27 September this year made a large number of recommendations which will now be the subject of a political debate on a new health and safety effort. It is crucial that we also get even more focus on our work on health and safety, including those things that I think can be done more in the area of prevention, not least. We can do a great deal of political work when it comes to our working environment, but I would like to stress again that employers have a responsibility to ensure a healthy and safe working environment, which among other things. should also ensure that seniors can stay longer in the labour market and maintain a good working life. For those who cannot work until their retirement age, there is already the possibility of full or partial withdrawal. We have among other things. the possibility of flexible jobs for a few hours a week, which could greatly benefit the group of older people. I think that is a good thing. It turns out that in the group of older people with reduced working capacity there are more who today maintain a link with the labour market rather than moving to early retirement. For those who have such a negligible capacity to work that they can neither now nor in the future meaningfully be part of the labour market, there is also the possibility of obtaining a senior early retirement pension. I have also asked for a work to be put into effect which will now be improved, it can be said, information activities for the use of a senior early retirement pension, and also a whole series of other measures which I had the opportunity to tell the Parliamentary Employment Committee about at the consultation held a few days ago. So all in all, I would like to make it clear that the government is focused on a healthy and good working life, on improving conditions on and outside the labour market, and on ensuring that as many people as possible become part of the working community for as long as possible; so it is also, I think, a good basis for showing solidarity with each other that one contributes to the coherence of this society. In addition, we continue to work to ensure that people who are worn out and who need the help they need will also have the opportunities and have them, and of course they must have that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109124246	Thank you. There will now be an opportunity to ask the Minister a question, and there are rules that allow us, as rapporteur, to ask a question of one minute's duration, and of course the Minister will also have the opportunity to reply for one minute. I must stress and I see that it is no problem that it is only the rapporteurs who can ask questions in this round, but it is also true of the circle present. And I can say that at this stage one person has signed in, and that is Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109124315	Thank you, and thank you, Minister, for your statement. My first question is this: does the Minister believe that the rules of the game that have been agreed on raising the retirement age both now and for an infinite future will ensure that everyone has a dignified old age? My next question is: The minister mentions, which is true, that a new settlement was reached in 2015 on the whole regulation of the retirement age. Can the Minister confirm that, by entering into that conciliation, the Social Democratic Party at the same time binds itself to the principles of the withdrawal reform of the VKO parties, which is, after all, different from the welfare agreement? It is much tougher, the early retirement age was reduced to 3 years, and the rise in retirement age was brought forward. So can the Minister confirm it? Can the Minister also confirm that the law of 2015, i.e. L 40, as it was called, shows that the retirement age should in fact already have been 6911⁄2 years if one looked only at the average increase in life expectancy, but that the legal technique made it necessary to settle for it to be only 68 years old by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109124434	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109124436	Thank you. I can say that I am returning awfully in my concluding remarks, which is why I do not think time will allow me to answer all three questions. This gives me the opportunity to just dive into what was said in L 40 from 2015, while the debate is going on, so I'm going to do that. I think it is obvious to everyone that what I am going through in my answer is that we have made the political agreements we have with a broad majority in the Folketing. I'm really glad. And that will also mean that we will have an ongoing discussion, but of course also a political discussion, on this subject. Well, that's a little important to say, for sir. Finn Sørensen may make it sound like there is such an indexing model that just runs without having to deal with it politically, but that is not the case. After all, there will be ongoing political discussions on this. So I can at least confirm that political agreements have been made and then it is up to the respective parties to explain why they have joined them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109124543	Thank you. No one else has signed up at this stage in this round, and then we thank the Minister and start the round of negotiations. And the first is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109124612	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will now start outside the walls of the 50-year-old warehouse worker Susanne, who says to Weekbrev A4 on 7 September, and I quote: "It is easy to sit and say that people can work longer when you have not had physical hard work yourself. Susanne is one of the approximately 1.5 million Danes who, according to a measurement, think it is a really bad idea to raise the retirement age to 67 years, as a majority in this House has decided. After 35 years in the labour market, Susanne's shoulders would no longer exist. She has been given a job that is less physically stressful, yet she fears that she will not be able to work until she can retire. It is a concern that she shares with approx. 20% by members of the LO and the FTF. That number will certainly increase as the retirement age is raised, but indeed because the working environment is going the wrong way, as the Minister, I think, very fairly mentioned. In spring 2017, the major survey on working conditions showed that from 2012 to 2016 there are 17 per cent. more people who are overburdened mentally and 15%. more people who are physically overloaded. In 2016, 1 out of 9 overloads of muscles and skeletons had psychic overloads and signs of stress or depression. I guess it hasn't been any smaller since. At the same time, we can see an increasing proportion of older people on unemployment benefit, sickness benefit and early retirement. These hard facts in August led some large pension funds to warn against increases in retirement age. They put their finger on the sore point: what should all those people live on when they go out of the labour market long before time? The economic wise men backed up and pointed out that there is indeed room for a more relaxed phasing-in of higher retirement age. Elders The case followed suit and said that it is completely unrealistic to believe that everyone can work until they are 70. That's what the Elders said and called the scheme hard-boiled. However, it should be thought that employers were satisfied with higher retirement age, because this increases the much-discussed supply of work but no: one study shows that 52 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for an early retirement scheme. A number of federations and unions and FOA, 3F and HK have also sharpened the criticism of the consequences. The Food Association NNF suggests that this could have consequences in terms of electoral terms for the parties responsible for the increases. The Blik and Pipeworkers' Association has decided that 40 years on the labour market is enough, and the Painters' League has demanded that the increases in retirement age be paused. The Construction Trade Union in Copenhagen and the Cabinetmakers and carpenters Club in 3F, the Construction, Earth and Environmental Workers' Union requires that the settlement be terminated before the election, so that a joint solution can be negotiated. However, it all brags off on the conciliation parties, also on the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, which has otherwise taken their way with sharp criticism of the Prime Minister's plans to bring forward the increases in retirement age. Fortunately, this was averted, but the two parties do not like to talk about what they themselves have committed themselves to. Perhaps that is because the criticism of the Prime Minister's proposals they made can also be made against them. So let us be clear: it has already been agreed that the retirement age by 2030 will rise to 68 years. And unless there is a very drastic drop in average life expectancy, and nobody expects that, by 2020, the conciliation parties will decide that the retirement age will rise to 69 years by 2035. It's clearly described in the law... unfortunately, one has to say. The Board of Labour Market and Recruitment has made a projection of what it means in the longer term. It shows, for example, that a 30-year-old can only retire when she is 72. An 18-year-old must wait until he's 75, and newborns until they're 77. It is difficult to understand why the idea that the retirement age should be based on the evolution of the average life expectancy is even possible. It goes without saying that it is going to hit awkwardly. However, the conciliation parties have chosen to do so, even without having any answers or concrete solutions for all the people affected. There are two questions to be answered by the parties behind this crazy system: why should people who enter the labour market early on and those who have physical and psychologically worn-out jobs not have the right to as many good years after working life as those with high education and high wages? And what should all the thousands of people live on who get out of the labour market long before retirement because they can no longer, or because they do not have the necessary training? This is an issue which is becoming increasingly urgent in the light of all the constraints on unemployment benefit, early retirement, sickness benefit, cash benefits and rehabilitation. On behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, I have to read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the agreed increases in retirement age lead to increased inequality and major challenges for people who are pushed out of the labour market long before time due to weardown or lack of training. Parliament therefore calls on the government to put forward legislative proposals which pause the increase in retirement age by cancelling the planned increases in retirement age beyond 67 years. At the same time, the Folketing invites the government to convene all parties of the Folketing for negotiations with the aim of ensuring a safe and good working life for all and equal opportunities for a dignified end to working life. • V10. • V10. • V10. • Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125203	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125208	Well, I'm basically in agreement with Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen's speech. However, I do have a question, and this is about the proposal for adoption which is now being put forward, which calls for an end to the increase in retirement age. But I also heard that Mr. Finn Sørensen argued in his speech that there should be compulsory universal access to pensions for most skilled and unskilled workers aged 57-58. Is it Enhedslisten's policy that we should be able to retire at 57-year-olds or 58-year-olds, because it must be when we say 40 years on the labour market? Most of us who have had a real job started out as 17-18-year-olds. Is it Enhedslisten's policy to have a pension at 57?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125254	Now I did not actually mention the Enhedslisten's proposal; I referred to the political statement made by the Blik- og Trømværkerforbundet from their last Congress, which very clearly said that 40 years on the labour market is enough. The Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal, not a retirement age, as Mr. Karsten Hønge talks about, but about, a withdrawal scheme to which one pays oneself through one's benefit insurance, which is that when one has been 40 years on the labour market and 35 years as a member of an unemployment insurance fund, one has the right to withdraw from unemployment benefit until one reaches retirement age. It is a system which also means that if you have been 35 years on the labour market and 30 years as a member of an unemployment insurance fund, you have the right to go down in time to retirement age and to recover, if you will say so, the loss of income by means of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125356	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125357	Yeah, yeah. Well, I'm in on it, sir. Finn Sørensen referred to decisions by various professional organizations. What interests me is that since Mr. Finn Sørensen refers them, I would almost assume that it is because Mr. Finn Sørensen is following that suggestion. I know, sir. Finn Sørensen used a few more words to describe the Enhedslisten's proposal, but in substance Mr. Finn Sørensen well and I would like to cut into the leg that it should be offered as a general scheme for people after 40 years on the labour market? This will mean that, for skilled and unskilled workers, they can retire as 57-58-year-olds. Is it Enhedslisten's policy, because then it is not a question of stopping a future increase, but of dramatically reducing the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125439	Now we have to distinguish between what we have agreed with another party to present as one, if that is to say, an urgent solution to a major problem and then what is the policy of Enhedslisten. We have not proposed this on this occasion. We have had this opportunity and discussed it earlier in this Chamber, where I have noted that among other things. Mr. Karsten Hønge believed that it was a wild overbidden demand and that sort of thing, and perhaps that is also what lies in the question. I do not think that is the view of the many people who enter the labour market early on. It is not only from the Blik and Pipeworkers' Association that we have heard that 40 years on the labour market would be a reasonable limit. But take a look at that, I'd say, sir. Karsten Hønge, that Enhedslisten's proposal, which is not under consideration here today, is a scheme that can be enjoyed if you are a member of an unemployment fund and meet the requirements for how long you should have been in the labour market. It is not a differentiation of the retirement age itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125531	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125534	That is of course interesting, because what people will probably experience when we have to get up in a moment is that Enhedslisten will ask us all sorts of questions about our policy and what we mean. But Enhedslisten himself does not want to answer questions about their policy. I find that interesting. I'm just as much as sir. Karsten Hønge did, have to ask, whether Enhedslisten believes that one should stop at the age of 57-58 years • which should also apply to myself, because it is in 5-6 years' time if one has been 40 years on the labour market. That must be a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125605	We do not think that should be done. We believe that those who want to work until they are 72, 77, 90 should be allowed to do so. But with the conditions on the Danish labour market and with the things that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has agreed with the bourgeois parties to increase retirement age, we need to have some rights in connection with previous retirement. That's what it's all about. It's a right. I have described it, so it is nonsense that I am not going to answer what our policy is and I have also described what the scheme is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125636	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125638	Then I would also like to know where the limit should be, i.e. when, according to Enhedslisten, you should retire.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125655	Well, we have voted against the increase in retirement age to 67 years, and we have also voted against the increase in retirement age to 68 years, so it is not so difficult to find out what our policy is. We think that a retirement age of 65 is an excellent place to have a retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125706	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125707	Thank you. I am curious to hear how Enhedslisten will finance such a retirement age, a pension model that Enhedslisten has outlined, because it has to be financed in a way. After all, it is not free to make sure that people can retire perhaps 10 years before what is currently outlined. So how does Enhedslisten intend to finance such an expense?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125744	After all, 11⁄2 years ago we have presented a concrete model for what I am talking about here. It is a fully funded proposal, and it appears from the proposal that it costs approx. 11 billion. It's fully funded, mainly by increasing the tax contribution of the people who earn the most in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125809	Sir. Hans Andersen, round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125811	I can then try to translate that into an increase in tax and top tax in particular in order to finance such a proposal from the Enhedslisten, which costs in the region of 11 billion. kr. All I have to ask is whether that is a right, so that no matter what you have worked with or what your terms are or how worn out you are, you have to be able to retire. Well, it's a right one gets according to the Enhedslisten model. Do you want me to understand it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125849	I think I explained it very well in my reply to Mr. Karsten Hønge. I would like to try again: it is a system that requires two things. One is that you have been the required number of years on the labour market, and the other is that you have paid to your cashier for a given number of years. That is what that arrangement is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125909	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109125923	This is an issue that is becoming more and more important to talk about, and that is why I would also like to thank Enhedslisten for raising the debate. I think it is extremely important. More people have to work longer. We also know that more people are becoming insecure because they have worked for many years and can see that it is impossible for them to work for as long as we have actually asked them to. I would like to acknowledge that. The working environment does not work well enough and we do not have enough answers for those who want to, but who do not have the right tools to continue. Nor do we have an answer to those who are worn out and in no way can work anymore. I acknowledge that the government has set up a senior think tank. The problem is that it seems that solutions should not be discussed in relation to the worn out ones either. I also recognise that a group of experts has been set up to improve the working environment, which has also come out with their recommendations, and that we also have to discuss this in the conciliation circle, but that the government, with the other hand of the finance negotiations, will save on the Labour Inspectorate, I think is a bit foolish. At the same time, the government has also tried to increase the retirement age further than agreed in the welfare agreement.Please note that it is further than agreed in the welfare agreement. Here I am also pleased that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party managed to thwart it, because it is also the wrong way to go. Of course, we stick to the agreements we have made, including in the welfare agreement, and I think we all know that we are living longer, that we are hearing about more and more people who are actually over 100 years old, we are meeting more and more people who have become healthier and more and more people who are working above retirement age. I think we all meet them. I also think that if we can and will grow older in the future and thus be able to work longer, we must do so. However, I also believe that we have created a problem that we need to take seriously, and I also recognise this, namely that not everyone can work as long as others, because, like me, they have worked since they were 17 years old, and they may have had a really hard physical job over all the years. I've just been internship at home care and internship at a store, not because I don't know what it's like to be out on the job market, because I've been doing that for many years, but because I wanted to see how tough these jobs are, because these are two kinds of jobs we often talk about in here. And I have to say that I do not believe that they can hold to it for as many years as we say. At least I wouldn't be able to handle it. Several people have begun to address this problem, and I think that is very good. The press has also begun to take a greater interest in it, and it is also very good. The NNF, the slaughterhouse workers, as Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned, has taken this up many times and has also called several meetings around the country where the Minister and I are also going to attend a big meeting together in Horsens, where we are going to discuss this topic. A great praise to the NNF and all the others who take this up, and I think that will be incredibly exciting to discuss. This clearly shows that there are problems, that we need to take it seriously and that we need to find solutions. That is why the Social Democrats are not in favour of further increases in pensions beyond what was agreed, and that is why we need to start a major debate on wear and tear and what we are doing for all those who have worked hard for many years and just can't do any more. That is why I would also like to read out the proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party: proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there is still broad support for the welfare agreement, where the retirement age is raised as we live longer and which is essential for us to be able to afford in the coming years to finance the welfare of the more elderly and children. At the same time, the Folketing notes that we are opposed to raising the retirement age further than has already been agreed and that we have a group on our labour market which has been on the labour market for many years and which will be worn out before they reach retirement age. This is a major problem that we need to resolve. That is why the Danish Parliament is calling for a discussion on how to find a dignified solution for the worn-out, who cannot work right up to retirement age. At the same time, the Danish Parliament calls for the cuts on the Danish Labour Inspectorate to be cancelled so that the Danish Labour Inspectorate can have more resources to ensure a better working environment and less wear and tear. • V 11).
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130323	Thank you. And that is also part of the further debate. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130334	Thank you. I would just like to quote from a debate speech that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen had in Altinget on 4 May 2017, and I quote: "Higher retirement age misses, is unfair and hits those who already have the least. ▪ That's how accurate it can be said... I totally agree. But why has the Social Democratic Party reached a settlement based on the withdrawal reform of the VKO parties to reduce the post-retirement wage and increase the retirement age beyond what was agreed in the welfare agreement? And when sir... Leif Lahn Jensen says that you will not vote for any further increases, does that mean that next time we have to decide on a higher retirement age, we will not vote for an increase in the retirement age to 69 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130418	I think sir... Finn Sørensen is deliberately or unconsciously trying to explain something that is not correct. It's like a new deal's been made. Actually, there isn't. What we did in 2015 was actually an extension of what we agreed on in 2006 in the welfare agreement. There we agreed that from 2015 we should first look at whether or not to increase the retirement age in relation to that indexation, and then we agreed to do so every five years, and that is again in the year 2020. So this is actually an extension of the welfare agreement that was made in 2006, where from 2015 and then every five years you have to look at whether, based on what the figures say, we are getting older, and then we have to sit together and agree on each time: do we do that? When I say in relation to further agreements, we will, of course, stick to this, and if it continues with that lifetime, we will of course stick to the welfare agreement and what we agreed on then, and then we will have to look at it next time in 2020. But when I say further, it means that there should be nothing other than what the government tried last time and which DF and Social Democracy opposed. We simply cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130526	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130529	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen cannot deny that the settlement reached in 2015 is based on the principles of the withdrawal reform of the VKO parties: a shorter retirement age and an advance of retirement age that goes beyond what was agreed in the welfare agreement. It's a little important. I don't think I'm getting a clear answer. Will Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, as described by the law, is voting in 2020 for a retirement age of 69? And if the answer is yes, because you feel bound by it, why do you criticize the bourgeois government? Why, then, is it said that higher retirement age is adversely affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130607	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130618	Well, I've been trying to explain it, but it doesn't look like Mr. Simpson... Finn Sørensen will understand. For what happened in 2015 was actually an extension of what we agreed in the welfare agreement, where we have to check these things every five years. And we will have to do that again in 2020 and 2025, and I could go on if Mr. Finn Sørensen has doubts about that. And what I said then was that beyond that, we won't be part of it anymore. We look every five years at whether it fits in with it, and then we make the deal. But beyond that, we will not be involved in any more, and then we will first solve the wear and tear problems that we recognise there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130642	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130646	Thank you. I am a little curious about the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, what can be said about economic policy, in other words what the conditions are for the proposals put forward by the Socialists. It could be what the conditions are for your economic policy when you look at the years ahead. Is it that the retirement age then by 2030 is 68 years old? Is this a prerequisite for the policy of the Socialists? Just for the information of the general public, that is what we agree with each other about, including the Social Democrats, namely that the retirement age is 66 by 2020, by 2022 it is 67 years, and by 2030 it will be 68 years. After all, we agreed on this in agreement, and I just ask: what are the prerequisites of the economic policy of the Socialists?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130746	I can confirm that. Of course, the prerequisites always lie in what we have agreed with other parties, and so do they in relation to the welfare agreement. But I also have to say again: we do not want to increase the retirement age further. We must also bear in mind that we have to meet every five years, and if it turns out that life expectancy does not increase but begins to fall, then there is another situation, and then, of course, we will have to discuss it again. But I also have to say something today that is really important to me: I think that Mr. Hans Andersen's party, the Left, and some of the others should come to the realization that the Social Democrats have come to realize that when we have been involved in the welfare agreement to say that we have to work longer, we also have to come up with a proposal or some solutions to the problem in relation to the worn out or at least to recognise that there is a problem and that, of course, you cannot work from the age of 17 and walk around on the roofs as a carpenter, or what do I know until you are well over 70 years old. I also think that some of the parties, among others. Left, have to acknowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130840	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130844	We will certainly have to discuss this with each other, no doubt about it. But I was just looking for the Social Democrats to maybe moderate the rhetoric about this, for sir. Leif Lahn Jensen again used the wording that you do not want to increase the retirement age. But then you have to say it clearly and do it in concrete terms by terminating the conciliation procedure. Otherwise, it's just talk, and I think the voters are tired of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130922	What is it, sir? Hans Andersen doesn't understand when I say additionally compared to what was agreed? Well, then that's what Mr. Hans Andersen's own party himself tried, namely that in addition to what we agreed in the welfare settlement, one will let it increase further. That is to say, you say to all the worn out: you just have to work even longer, even if you are worn out. Then we also cut down on the working environment, and we cut back on the Factory Inspectorate, because you can easily work even though the working environment is bad. We don't want to do that, it just doesn't work out, and that's why I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen that the Left simply has to wake up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130952	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109130954	Thank you. I understand that there are many who are in doubt as to what the Socialists think. The rapporteur now says that we need to change it if people are worn out and then comes the next sentence: or at least recognise that there is a problem. Yes, thank you, is it not the case that most Danes have recognised that there is a problem? I guess politicians don't have to wait to acknowledge that. One can easily just look around and interfere in the debate we have had, for example. on the work of the Committee of Experts and the development of the working environment, where it goes through Pomeranian, according to the survey last year, according to the survey this year from employers. We know that, of course, we do not need a new recognition or a verdict. What is the answer to the people who are being worn out today and tomorrow and the next ten years, because we have not had that stopped in relation to the working environment? What is the answer to those of the Social Democrats, in addition to following the bourgeois every five years and recognising that there is a problem? There's got to be some way to change these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131102	Well, now I'm going to say about my good friends here from the Enhedslisten and everything else, that I know they're pretty sharp. They understand, but they make it sound like they don't understand a stick. They do that very well. When we say just as clearly that we recognise that there is a problem in terms of wear and tear, and we have to, us who have been in the welfare agreement; and I just stand here and take the responsibility and when we have been involved in the welfare agreement to say that the retirement age has to rise, then we also have to do something about that problem. And when we say at the same time that this is why we will not be helping to increase the retirement age any more, as the Left proposes, beyond what we agreed, then it is not difficult to understand. What the solution is, I simply do not have an answer to, but we have to find that answer. And when I stand here and admit that some solutions need to be found, it is actually because I have started listening a lot when there are a number of different solutions. There are all kinds of solutions. I have no idea which one is right at all, but we have to tell all those who have worked since they were 17 years of age and have had a hard job, that we have to find a solution, because they cannot work until they are well over 70 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131205	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131209	Well, I do agree with the rapporteur from the Left. How much is just talk and how much is concrete action? In other words, if the workers in Denmark are to consider whether we should have a new government now in March, when there are elections, then they have to know what the alternative is. What is it they can expect from new tones? Or should they just expect the slaughterhouse workers to work by 2030 until they are 68 years old and that the Social Democratic Party will continue along that road? Then I think they don't care if we change government. That is why it is important for us to be concrete. What is the social democracy's worn-out policy? What are we going to do about the wear and tear?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131250	You don't get me to say anything new by asking the same questions over and over again. Well, what the alternative wants, sir. Torsten Geejl will tell you when he gets up. But I just have to say that what we can offer is that we can simply say to people: we will not continue to increase the retirement age beyond what we have agreed, and there we simply have to do something about the worn out. We have to come up with solutions, and I think we should all say that. I can also hear the rest of the Reds saying that, but there is a lack of the government parties to say that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131319	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. There are no more brief comments. And then it's Mrs. Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131330	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen to ask this question about raising retirement age. It provides an opportunity to clarify the situation with regard to the increase in retirement age. When you look at how the labour market is designed for seniors, it is clear that we must of course look at what can be done to make it attractive for our seniors to stay longer in the labour market. We can see that there has been a large increase in the number of seniors who wish to remain on the labour market, even if they have reached retirement age, and that trend should, of course, continue. It is therefore very important that employers make an effort to adapt some jobs to a senior life, and fortunately many employers already do so. So that is to say, with the right arrangements, fortunately, many seniors want and can see an advantage in continuing with work after retirement. The more flexibility that can be given, the more people want to continue working. It also means a higher pension, but first and foremost we can continue with the community of work. And the way of life that has been developed for many years continues, as it has always done. However, it is necessary to develop some more possibilities to increase flexibility, and therefore Dansk Folkeparti persuaded the government to set up this senior think tank, which will come up with some suggestions for how a flexible senior work life can be better organized. The Senior Thinking Tank is first and foremost set up with people who have a great deal of knowledge of the labour market, in short, people who have themselves been out getting dirty hands and know the problems of wear and thus the labour market from within. We look forward very much to the results that will come here in the summer of 2019. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that there should be an opportunity for those who are worn out to withdraw. And that is why it is also a clear wish of the Danish People's Party that the senior early retirement pension should be withdrawn from the early and flex-job reform. In the opinion of the Danish People's Party, the seniors who are worn out in their jobs must be given the seniors, and there must be a quick procedure based on their wear and tear. They must not go through all possible work tests, but they must also be able to get a senior flexible job of their choice. That is why it is a call to the government: let the senior early retirement be a scheme for itself. You can also create better opportunities to combine senior work with the use of your pension schemes at the same time. As far as the agreement on increases in the retirement age is concerned, we have heard many times from Mr Gundelach. Finn Sørensen that the increase in retirement age takes place per year. In other words, it should increase every five years. Fortunately, this is not the case. The agreement states that there is a decision to change the age limit every five years, and next time is in 2020. Does this mean that the retirement age will automatically be raised by 2020? No, it doesn't. This means that the parties behind the agreement must meet and see if there is a basis for raising the retirement age, and if we then consider that it is not there, then the retirement age will not be increased either. So do we have any influence on whether or not to raise the retirement age? Yes, of course the parties involved in the agreement have an influence on that. So this is not the automatic one that Enhedslisten claims to be incorporated into the agreement. If you cannot agree, then there is the possibility that a settlement may be terminated if it is necessary but it does not appear that the parties involved in the agreement will find a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131743	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131747	Thank you. It is a very interesting interpretation of the text of the law that the rapporteur makes there, and I would also like to thank him for his speech. It is crystal clear from that legislation that it is the increase in average life expectancy that determines how high the retirement age should be and already in 2015 when it was decided to increase to 68 years with effect from 2030, one can read in the comments that it should actually have been raised to 69 1⁄2 years due to the increase in average life expectancy, but since there is also a mechanism in the law that says that it can only increase by 1 year at a time, then it was only 68 years. As a result, in 2020 the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party and the other conciliation parties will vote in favour of raising the retirement age to 69 years, because that level has already reached the average life expectancy. Or will the Danish People's Party say that although the increase in life expectancy is as it was in 2015 and which makes an increase to 69 years, will the Danish People's Party vote against?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131858	How the Danish People's Party will vote for something in 2020 I think we should let Bent Bøgsted discuss with Mr. Finn Sørensen, I'm not gonna start thinking about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131907	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131909	So, excuse me, it was the rapporteur himself who came in and gave an interpretation of the law which is simply not right that it is entirely up to the conciliation parties whether they want to vote in favour or against. There is a very, very clear and square mechanism in the legislation that describes what I am saying. And then my question is: is the Danish People's Party prepared to defy the mechanics, namely the increase in average life expectancy, and vote against an increase to 69 years by 2020? It is a little important, both for the electorate and for the other conciliation parties, that the Danish People's Party clearly announces this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109131950	I stick to the fact that what the text says is that you have to sit down every five years and then you have to assess whether there is a basis for raising the pensionable age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132001	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132005	Thank you. I think that's a strange answer. When Mrs Karina Due faces my old colleagues in 3F in Silkeborg within six months, they will inevitably ask her: Am I to be a ground and concrete worker, carpenter, cleaning assistant or piper of work until I am 68 years old or longer? Can I trust the Danish People's Party, so this will soon end and we will soon have a proper arrangement for us who are about to be worn out if we are not already? They will not put up with an answer that says that Bent Bøgsted will find out by 2020. On the election day and there is less than a year until the end of the election, the people who suffer from the Danish People's Party's policy expect a proper response. I can promise the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that they will.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132102	I think, sir. Christian Juhl mixes things up a lot. One thing is the automatic, as Mr. Finn Sørensen claims that there is an increase in retirement age; a quite different thing, which I have also addressed in my rapporteur's speech, is the problem of the worn-out people who are not going to retire but who are going to have an early retirement pension. And there we have made some very clear suggestions as to how we think it should be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132123	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132126	That doesn't change the fact that these people are still going to work and taking medication, probably every day for periods when it's really, really hard, and that they want an answer to the question: when will we get a proper retirement age, and why have you agreed that we should already work by 2030 until we are 68 years old? That is the question they are going to ask, not the question of what should happen if you are totally destroyed. It is therefore important that the Danish People's Party prepares for an answer and not just says that it is negotiating Bent Bøgsted. After all, there is a great likelihood that DF will again slip into the bend and accept the plans of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132200	Thank you. Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132204	I think again, sir. Christian Juhl mixes things up. When you are a worn-out worker doing manual work, you do not go and wait to reach the retirement age and get a proper pension. There you have to be allowed to retire on an early retirement pension if you cannot do a job. And one of the things that the Danish People's Party has always advocated is that there must be a much better relationship for the people who are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132231	We thank Mrs Karina Due and go further in the rapporteur's speech to Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132240	Thank you for that and thank you to the previous rapporteurs. This is not the first time that Enhedslisten has asked a question on this subject, and I am glad that we will again have the opportunity to enrich the debate a little with some facts. Let me start with the fact that the Danes deliver longer and longer, and they are more healthy and healthy than ever before. In fact, the Danes are doing so well that we live even longer than we expected in 2006, when a majority in the Folketing concluded the welfare agreement. It means, among other things, that by 2030 the retirement age will be raised to 68 years and that the retirement age will follow the trend in life expectancy. That is common sense and it is necessary if we are to maintain a high level of welfare in the future too. The Danes are well, and it is positive. They are doing so well that more and more seniors choose to postpone their pensions and stay a little longer in the labour market. This is particularly true of unskilled and skilled workers. This is a positive development that I think we should welcome, and it is a development that the Left wants to support. We have done this through previous reforms, and we see the results of this today. According to an analysis from Danish Industry, the last 10 years of reforms have made Denmark 130 billion. kr. richer and increased employment by 155,000 people. It puts a bold line under the fact that we have chosen the right path, the responsible path, the path that benefits all of us, and therefore, of course, the Left supports that we continue in the same direction; we support that more healthy seniors stay longer in the labour market and ensure good retirement opportunities for those who cannot work until retirement age. Of course, we must seize those who cannot work right up to retirement age, and I think we all agree on that. We must do so today, and we must do so in the future too. This applies to those who fall completely out of the labour market, and to those who need to turn down the number of hours. We have stretched out that safety net, for example. The senior early retirement pension, which is awarded to 9 out of 10 applicants, and which we in the Left would like to see more information about, so that even more people who need it can make use of that scheme in the future. This applies to the flex-job scheme, which, with the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, was made more inclusive, so that even with a reduced capacity to work you can maintain in the labour market, and this applies to the early retirement scheme, because if your ability to work is not there, you must of course be granted an early retirement pension. That's all it is. Here I would like to stress briefly that the Left is looking forward to the forthcoming discussions on the evaluation of the overall early and flexible job reform. Then I would like to make it quite clear that we have never asked people who are sick or worn out to stay longer in the labour market, because instead we are not, of course, going to sluice healthy and bodily Danes early on out of the labour market on an ever longer folk pension, because that would be the consequence of rolling back the agreement on lifetime indexing, and that would hit our common welfare fund. Then, of course, we also have to ensure that we have a healthy and safe working environment, so that fewer people get worn down at first, and we are naturally concerned about that too. For example, the government has set up an expert group on working conditions, which has just made recommendations for improved work environment, and we have set up the senior think tank to support a healthy senior working life. I believe that our political agreement on the retirement age is both economically and socially responsible, because it ensures that we do not push challenges to future generations, but instead solve them now with an eye to improving the working environment, counteracting wear and, of course, keeping a secure hand under those who need an early withdrawal from the labour market. Then, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Conservatives and the Left, I shall make the following: Proposal for adoption • Reference is made to the political agreement on V 105 adopted by Question F 46 on 16 May 2017, which refers to the political agreement on V 70 adopted by Question F 36 on 18 April 2017. As an addition to this, the Folketing notes year, as a result of the lifetime indexing. Parliament invites the government to V.12.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132812	That is also part of the further debate. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132820	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that we are, therefore, well aware of the answer given by the rapporteur to the question of the different ages of life, if we may say so, for the various social groups which show that if we look at the lowest paid part of the men in this country, the lowest paid quarter of the men in this country, then they live ten years shorter than the highest paid part of the men. And in the case of women, the difference is approx. 5 years, barely 5 years. So it is only in this context that we have to say that it is extremely unfair to adjust the retirement age to the increase in the average life expectancy, is it not? That is the first question. The second question, and I am sure that I will not convince the rapporteur of this, should the rapporteur be a little sensitive to it. I think the rapporteur himself noted that, in August of this year, the economic wise men, on the basis of the warnings given by the pension funds against the rise in retirement age, were encouraged with a proposal for a more relaxed phasing-in of increases when we come on the other side of the 68 increase. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132934	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109132937	First, we get older on average, we get healthier, we get healthier. I am fully aware that there is a difference between the life you have had, the working life you have had and, therefore, the opportunities for, for example. to have a healthy and good life for the elderly, no doubt about it. We still have challenges there. But on average we live longer, and I take that down positively. Then there are the wise men who sometimes have to be wise, and that is what they are paid for. I would just like to say that this is again about priorities, because if you followed the Enhedslisten's proposal to stop at 67, then that funding would have to be found elsewhere. Then there was no possibility of financing both health extensions or better care for the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133045	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133049	Thank you for admitting that there is a great inequality in terms of what our life after working life can be like if we ever get this far. But then the consequence should also be that plans to raise the retirement age were dropped on the basis of an average life expectancy for the whole population. The wise men are not wise; they are simply pointing out that there is economic room for manoeuvre. In addition to the costs which have been agreed for the coming years, there is room for a more relaxed phasing-in of increases in retirement age. Why is it so important to set foot for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133126	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133131	I think it is important that we can always ensure that we can afford a world-class healthcare system, that we can afford very good and proper care for the elderly, that we can afford primary schools, university environments and so on. That requires funding, and there is no doubt about it. And that is our priority, and that is why we stand by the welfare agreement and the actions that have come after it. We stand by the fact that we have voted in favour of the retirement age being 68 by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133205	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133211	If that is the view of the rapporteur of the Left, we could simply not throw 11 billion. This is what has been spent most of your time in the last four years. That is why it is clear that it is difficult to find funding. And if it is those who have worked hardest who now have to pay by being completely worn out and not getting a proper old age, then I think the price has been high. That is why it is important that we get a proper answer from the Left and the others. Does the Left believe that retirement age after 2030 should increase further beyond the age of 68? Does the rapporteur believe that the recommendations of the Committee of Experts will reverse the terrible curves we have seen in the field of health and safety, where things are getting worse and worse, to improve?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133300	I think the rapporteur may well know that we have not spent most of our time discussing and discussing how we could lighten the tax for those who earn the least here in Denmark. We have made tax concessions, tax reliefs, we stand by that, but then I think that ordinary people are well aware that other things have also been done in the Folketing, and we have spent time on that too. We stand by the agreements that have been made. The agreement reached is that the retirement age should be increased by 2030 to 68 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133342	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133346	I asked a question about whether the rapporteur believes that the Committee of Experts' 18 recommendations will reverse the curves which 11⁄2 years ago showed that the working environment is going the wrong way, compared with what we have planned; it is becoming increasingly problematic in terms of muscle skeletal diseases and the psychological working environment respectively. There are more and more people exposed to these influences, and the figures were supposed to decrease by 20 and 25 per cent respectively. Does the rapporteur believe that the Committee of Experts' 18 recommendations can reverse those serious curves that we saw last spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133431	I look forward to discussing the recommendations that have come from the Committee of Experts with other parties here in the Danish Parliament, because we certainly need to do something about the working environment we have in Denmark. It is my concern that we should certainly not get sick from going to work; that we should not have a working environment that does not use the technological possibilities that exist to avoid wearing down.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133501	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133509	Thank you. The life expectancy indexing of retirement age is for me and for the Liberal Alliance to see one of the most central reforms of the Danish economy in recent times. Without lifetime indexing, government finances would not be coherent in the longer term. I often wonder about the criticism that when people live longer on average, yes, they also have to work a little longer. That is logical to me, and if you are willing to do without that money in the Treasury, then there should be quite substantial savings elsewhere. The parties that are good at criticising the scheme do not have much arm movements when it comes to finding savings in the welfare field. The agreement was based on 141⁄2 years of retirement, but the fact is that in recent years we have had an explosive development in life expectancy. The development we thought should take approx. 50 years, has only taken approx. 10 years. And when we have major limitations on how quickly we can adjust the retirement age, then that means a rather uneven distribution of pension time between generations. A person who can retire this year at the age of 65 can look forward to being approx. 85 if he is a man and 88 if he is a woman. This results in 20 and 23 retirement years respectively. As our agreement is phased in, it will be smaller and smaller, but that means that young people who today have to work and pay for a very large number of retirement years will be able to look forward to considerably fewer retirement years themselves. I am a little surprised that parties that are normally preoccupied with distribution do not have the will to intervene against that problem. It is sometimes said that today's debate has also shown that there may be some improvement in life expectancy, but that it is only for the rich. But that is not quite true. A new study compares the expected life expectancy of a rich and poor 40-year-old. Assuming that Denmark is not a static society and that there is quite a nice income mobility, the difference in life expectancy is small. The difference between a rich 40-year-old man and a poor 40-year-old man is, according to this study, 2.2 years old. So there is a greater difference in life expectancy between men and women than there is in rich and poor people. Why is it that you are not more concerned with it? Why is the life span of men and women so different? This is very rarely discussed politically. I think we should be glad that good responsible decisions have been taken in Denmark about retirement age. In the Liberal Alliance, we are sorry that there is no willingness to adapt the agreement reached to the very positive development of life expectancy, but, of course, we continue to support the cooperation that has been concluded, even if we would like it to be stronger. And we support the adoption text, as Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133857	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109133900	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I believe that we must, so far, stick to the health minister's answer, which we received not so terribly long ago, which was very clear, and which shows the huge inequality in the average life expectancy between the lowest-paid quarter of the population and the highest-paid quarter, and that is why it is so unfair to base retirement age on an increase in average life expectancy. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she thinks that the Minister for Health is quite wrong. The line taken by the rapporteur means, of course, that young people, for example. a person of 18 years of age is shown in STAR's projection • can only retire when she is 75 years of age. Does the rapporteur really think that it is reasonable to demand that any young person, for example, should be given the right to vote in local elections? One who learns and gets a working life as a carpenter, masonry, soil and concrete work, social and health assistant, whatver, with a very demanding job, must work until they are 75 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134009	First of all, no, I do not think that the Minister for Health is going astray. I am just referring to the study that has emerged, which was what I referred to here, in order to get some nuances into the debate. In relation to the 18-year-old: I think it is clear that when we stand here and talk about working until you are 75 years old, it may sound like a lot, but that's what we see very much in that area. My daughter, who is 2 years old, will on average be 100 years old. It will be the new children who will be born. The new girls are going to be 100 years old, and that's what we kind of have to keep in mind. So when you tell my daughter that you expect her to retire as, like, 77 years old, it sounds like a lot now, but it still means away that she will have a lot of years of retirement. That is what we have to deal with, that is to say, we are getting older and older.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134105	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134107	I would really hope for Mrs Laura Lindahl's daughter that she will be 100 years old and that she will have some very good healthy years, including the last 25, 30, 40 years of her life. But if she succeeds, it will depend entirely on the working life she will have, and that is precisely the fact that the Liberal Alliance and the other parties, including the Social Democratic Party, which are behind this increase in retirement age, will not relate to: the huge social injustice, that is to base an increase in retirement age on an average life expectancy. Will the rapporteur please deal with this at the heart of the matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134151	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134154	I'd love to. My position is very clear: I think we should relate to the average life expectancy of the population. Then there may be some people who recognize that in the Liberal Alliance too, who are being worn out, who have had a hard working life that cannot necessarily work until they receive a retirement pension. That is perfectly fair and we think that some arrangements should be looked at there. However, to say that the retirement age must be reduced because we have to start with that target group, we do not agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134227	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134229	The rapporteur says that she recognises that there are some who cannot stand it all the way and that it is absolutely fair that they should retire. I do not think this is a fair development. It must be so in the labour market that everyone can stick to it until they grow old. That is our goal. Even the Minister says this every time, and I know it is rare for someone from the Liberal Alliance to come and discuss the working environment in the Employment Committee, and the Liberal Alliance does not spend much time on preventive work. However, it is extremely important that we initiate a development that does not make more and more people sick from going to work, that more and more people are becoming more and more strained by mental work environments and muscle and skeletal disorders. We should not accept having some garbage can we can put people in, early retirement and things like that. We must accept that the labour market is such that everyone can participate. I think the Liberal Alliance should change that in their policy and also say: we do not just recognise that some people cannot stand up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134331	We do not have a policy in which, in this way, we think it is good that there are some who cannot keep all the way, but I think we must clearly do something about the working environment. I think this is sensible and I think it is sensible that we have started to target the efforts more. But I think we should also begin to change our mindset. I think that we should start to prepare ourselves for the fact that you may not be able to get a job as a ground and concrete worker at 18 and then work with it until you go on a retirement pension. I believe that the people who start their careers, for example. soil and concrete work must be prepared that when they have worked with it for 20, 25, 30 years, they must start working with something else. I think you have to be prepared that some of the physically hard jobs you can't have your whole life, and then you have a responsibility to change the tracks along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134423	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134427	At any rate, this presupposes a completely different labour market and education policy from that provided by the current government. For then there must be an opportunity to retrain and get a new education, then there must be an opportunity to change. But apart from that, I do not think that is a good position. The jobs that are straining today, we have to change. Companies need to find ways to use the technology properly and decently so that all people can hold to it. There is no point in accepting that there is a labour market that is so brutal that it wears out and causes 62 000 people to suffer from occupational injuries every year and that 2 000 people die from it. That's not fair. We have to change those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134508	But that's exactly what I'm saying. I say that we need to change the mentality of those people who enter those professions so that they do not get to work injuries so that they do not get worn out so that they do not end up where they die of it, but change tracks earlier, and that is what I think is the biggest challenge. But the biggest task for us is to make a shift in that you can't necessarily have a physically hard hard work your whole life, and that it's absolutely okay that it's something where you change tracks along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134544	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109134552	Thank you. In the alternative, we can easily vote in favour of a text that pauses increases in retirement age, while at the same time negotiating a better pension system that allows Danes to have a more dignified ending in working life. Firstly, we are facing a very significant upheaval in the labour market, which we do not know how to end up. So it may also be wise to look into the future that we are looking into today when we have the long light on. We are not being hit by it, but digitalisation, robotisation, artificial intelligence and globalisation are coming up at a pace now, and that is one of the things that will affect the future very, very much. Some studies say that up to half the well-known jobs in the United States will disappear. Many believe that there will be just as many. At home in Denmark we have talked about half a million well-known jobs perhaps disappearing, rationalised away due to robotization, digitalisation, artificial intelligence. Then the question is how many of the jobs we're going to recreate. Now we have experienced situations in history before, when industrialization or computer age has arrived, and where everyone has said that we are now losing a lot of jobs, but in reality a certain amount of development has been maintained and a certain amount of growth has been maintained. It has not turned into mass unemployment or at least not permanent mass unemployment. But the question is how many of the jobs that disappear over the next 10-20 years we are able to restore. How are we going to restore them? What kind of new industries are we going into? What are some new industries we need to invent to restore all those jobs? What are we going to consume? What kind of service are we supposed to consume? Personally, I am gradually being a little satisfied with consumption and consumption, but it will certainly be exciting to see what kind of jobs it is for some jobs to replace all these jobs that disappear when we still have really, very much need of labour. If you look at some of the world's leading business leaders, it is not always that they have the same crystal ball as the one in the Ministry of Employment. For example: Says Bill Gates that when so many jobs disappear that need to be restored to new ones, then we will have a huge problem of continuing training, we will have a very, very large bottleneck, we simply cannot be able to train people so quickly. And Elon Musk, who among other things... has made Tesla, says that we can easily get into a situation where we can make society run around without all of us having to work. He's talking about bourgeois pay. So when we look forward, we sometimes think it may be interesting to look at the pension system as from a helicopter, also inspired by what the future might bring. There, in the alternative, we are incredibly inspired by the German model, where you have a fixed number of years on the labour market, and that is just an inspiration. Of course, we have to figure out how we do this ourselves in Denmark, i.e. if it is 40 years, 42 years, 45 years, but so that those who come in first can also get out first, and that those who come in late after a long education can also get out late. Then, of course, it has to be voluntary if you want to continue. For my sake, people can work until they're 90 years old. It just has to be possible for those who have come in first and who are most worn out to get out again. Then, of course, you can discuss what counts in the work. It can be learning time, and it can be certain forms of training. You also have to find out when to stop if you have been unemployed for a long time. But there are some things you can discuss. The important thing is that those who have been inside early and have worked really, very hard can also get out quickly. So we hope that, together with ensuring a better working environment, it will be possible to ensure that more people avoid wearing out and have more surviving capacity for the 15, 20, 25, 30 years that many of us, who will be part of the ageing force, will have in our retirement. And we hope that such a major restructuring, where, once you get in, you can also get out first, means that we will not need the same degree of symptom-treating measures as a retirement pension or a senior early retirement pension. In other words, we are voting for the retirement pension every time it comes up in the Folketing, because we want the policy of small steps, we want the small improvements, but I think that the future calls for a more lasting solution, and there I think the German model looks really interesting. After all, it works well in Germany, and you can also raise working hours, that is to say raise the retirement age where this system can keep up. So we believe that, as the life expectancy increases, we must ensure that we also have the opportunity to enjoy our retirement with the interests we have, with grandchildren and travel, or whatever we want, after having contributed as a taxpayer for a very, very many years on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135025	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135036	Thank you. Given both the increasing life expectancy and the economic reality, Radicals are behind our retirement age system. In the opinion of the Radical Left, it is the best possible economic priority that the working population should stay a little longer on the labour market. If we imagine that we had not done this with an increase in the retirement age, as life expectancy increases, then there would be a much greater feature on public funds, and that is money that would then not be available elsewhere. On the other hand, we would very much like to strengthen and facilitate the possibility of early withdrawal for people who are worn out. We would like to help facilitate access to senior early retirement. The Radical Left has also proposed, together with the LO, to relax the rules both in terms of the criteria for obtaining early retirement and in terms of the opportunities offered to the worn out. We also believe that the rules on unemployment insurance should take greater account of those who are approaching retirement age, because it is easy to imagine that there will be people who have an increased risk of unemployment when they reach high age but have not yet reached retirement age. In other words, we would like to take far-reaching account of people who are unable to look after a job up to the increased retirement age. But the starting point must still be that with the higher retirement age, a whole range of working people will stay longer on the labour market and help finance our welfare societies, and then we will have to take care of those who will not be able to fulfil that function. The Radical Left supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135218	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135223	Thank you for a brief and clear rapporteur speech. With the higher retirement age, more will remain in the labour market, says Radicale's rapporteur. Without the higher retirement age, more will also remain in the labour market. I do not understand why there is such distrust of people that they will not work what they can. In fact, all my practical experience tells me that people would like that if they could. Why, then, can we not live with a retirement age of 65 years, because then there will be more and more people working as much as they possibly can? Why, then, can we not have a proper system so that we can go down in working hours and get supplemented up by the public sector? It's not gonna happen financially. There's no problem with that. There are figures today that show that hundreds of thousands of people are working all the way up, far past 70 years, because they can. Does the rapporteur not believe that people actually have a better life when they say that I am in charge? I have the right to continue, I also have the right to stop when I am 65. Wouldn't it be a more humane society we made if we did?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135331	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. The premiss is wrong, I mean. It is not true that people are just going to continue working as long as they want, without looking at the limits of when to go and when to go. There is no doubt that a higher limit on when you retire will cause some people who would otherwise have retired to stay longer in the labour market. That is absolutely indisputablely true. That is to say, the premise of the question that people will still work longer, I simply do not think. Wouldn't it be a more humane society? Yes, but it will also, as I started by saying in my rapporteur's speech, be a very large printing if society is to tell people who are otherwise working that they can now retire paid by everyone else. There's no money available. With regard to the calculations we heard earlier today from the Enhedslisten rapporteur, that it can be done at a modest price, 11 billion. kr.-like, I also think it's wrong numbers. I think that the price would be immense, immensely higher if, for example, one were to pay. the pensionable age was set free, or if 65 years were allowed as a pension limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135431	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135434	I think the radical rapporteur is completely wrong. I would like to invite you for a practical trip, for example. to 3F in Silkeborg, and then talk to people there. It is indisputable that the quality of life, especially for the group of people who have had a hard working life, will increase if they know that when they reach the age of 65 they will be able to resign if they can no longer. There are not yet any arrangements of those who accept that people are being worn out and then have to save those who have worked properly and effectively for those people. That is why we do not have that system before we can allow ourselves to increase the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135519	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135521	Thank you for that and thank you to the author and thank you for inviting us to visit people in 3F in Silkeborg. I'm not against that. I'm having a little trouble seeing when I'm gonna have time, but we can talk about that. What is the point is that the questioner in his first question said that people would retire later than the 65 years and that this limit was arbitrary. I still think that is not true. As far as the quality of life is concerned, this is a completely different discussion. It is true that it will give the individual a higher quality of life, but on the basis of a much higher cost to society, and there we would rather set different priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135553	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135556	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Nowadays, we can see the signs of the retirement age before it has been raised, and that is only here per year. 1 January, that it is on the way to the 67th that there is a clear tendency for seniors to stay longer in the labour market. So what the rapporteur says is probably not quite right. You know, it's not that attractive to go to a retirement pension. I think that the rapporteur himself, or the rapporteur's party, has been working with most of the other parties here in the Danish Parliament to reduce the purchasing power of the national pension. Schemes have been put in place to offset occupational pensions, so that hundreds of thousands of ordinary LO wage earners have nothing to do with retirement. It is not that attractive to go on a retirement pension, and everyone would prefer to be part of a working community. So I think the rapporteur needs to re-examine his position on what makes people work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135701	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135703	Thank you. When we abolished the early retirement, we could see that people who no longer have the opportunity to go on early retirement rather than stay longer on the labour market. That is the trend we are seeing now. In other words, people who were able to choose between taking early retirement or staying in the labour market chose the early retirement because it was an option. When this is no longer an option, they stay longer in the labour market. I do not think that there is any discussion at all about the fact that, if you allow the possibility to retire earlier on one or the other scheme, people will take it too. That goes without saying. The fact that we should have eroded pensions is therefore parallel to the fact that we have built up a labour market system which hopefully means that we will have a long-term pension scheme when we make both a scheme that follows life expectancy and when we allow people to save up for their own pension. So I think that we have tried with due care to ensure that future generations of older people can be dealt with in a good and proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135752	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135755	There is no doubt that with the economic whip you can force some people who do not earn very much from their jobs and who have an economy that they have difficulty getting to hang together to work longer. That is actually what is happening through the deterioration of the social security network in general, including the deterioration in relation to retirement age. So that is the philosophy on which the Radicals are actually building their thinking, in other words that it is by means of economic coercion that we must ensure that people stay longer in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135833	Thank you. Our philosophy in the Radical Left is that citizens should be on their own for as long as possible in the labour market and contribute to the community, so that it can all be linked, and to the extent that we allowed healthy and vibrant citizens who are productive to enter a Community-paid pension, it would be too expensive, and that would affect the same community. That is our philosophy in a nutshell. That there are some hard labour policy instruments that are being put into use is correct. To call it a philosophy that we must force, I don't know if I will use those words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135912	We thank the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Juhl is well aware that you cannot speak twice, but it is worth trying. Let's move on. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109135926	It is quite clear that some seem to see sunburned seniors on the golf courses, on roundabouts or at senior high schools, and at the same time they try to crowd out the image of people with osteoarthritis, the mentally burned out, those who start the day with painkillers for breakfast. The well-trimmed privileged on the sunny side of society are preparing to realize themselves a few more years on the labour market, and they must be so eternally welcome to do so. But the insecurity is noticeable in many ordinary workers' homes. A lot of people are afraid of not being able to keep to work until retirement age. The fear of an unworthy end to a long working life leaks into the body of people who instead should have a pat on the shoulder. The increase in retirement age is based on the average life expectancy which is increasing. That's how wrong it can be when you hammer people into templates, rows of numbers, equations and excelark... a statistic created by the hell even a dark Monday morning. Because reality is quite different. Life expectancy is increasing, yes, but so are the differences in society. The increase in the retirement age certainly hits, as a heat-seeking missile, precisely those people who have received the least when education was given out, but who, on the other hand, have been dragging loads for many years at work. The trap claps on the short-educated who are caught in a double imbalance with unequal working conditions and inequality in health and life expectancy. Today there is great inequality in the number of good years of life, and now it just gets worse. The elite is well in the process of creating a society in its own image, but it is a dream vision for the general population. In fact, the Ministry of Finance has just submitted calculations that we should expect 24 per cent. In the future, early retirement will come to an end. The abolition of early retirement leaves many sad traces behind; it leaves a great many skilled and unskilled workers in a working and social no-man's country. If any increase in retirement age is to make any sense at all, a number of other parallel initiatives will be required. We must be much better at taking care of those people who are too sick to go to work but who are too healthy to get early retirement. Firstly, if an increase in retirement age is to make sense, we must invest massively in a better working environment; secondly, we must invest massively in adult, continuing training, so that we have a chance to make work change during life; and thirdly, we must make it possible to get off the elevator, which is heading for some worthy senior years; and thirdly, we must make it possible to get off the elevator, which is headed for some dignified senior years; and there must be some opportunities for all people to increase. The SF's objective is real justice based on the real reality outside Borgen and outside the Ministry of Finance. This so-called average, as usual, leaves the most worn-out on the bottom, yes, while the privileged float upstairs like cork stoppers. If it is up to the SF, we must put an end to the unequal and socially divided working life, and we must at least ensure that it does not continue with renewed force into senior life. SF has a proposal for adoption which reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that, in the context of the agreed increases in the retirement and retirement age, sufficient and reasonable consideration has not been given to the possibility that the worn-out may withdraw wholly or partially from the labour market at an earlier stage, including that the senior early retirement pension does not work as provided. For this reason, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to make proposals to strengthen the rights in relation to early retirement for worn-out and others. V 13).
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140346	Thank you for that, and that proposal is also included in the further debate. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140349	Thank you, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and here I would like to add the good rapporteur's speech, which I fully agree with, especially the premise put forward by the rapporteur, namely that if there is any point whatsoever in raising the retirement age, then there are some other factors that need to be settled first. That's where I got the idea that it's all about a proper working environment so that people don't get worn out. It's about investing in some education so that all those with little education or no education get a chance and some rights to step out of the labour market when they can't anymore. I fully agree with that, and that is the spirit of the proposal for adoption put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. For that says: let us now pause that retirement age and have a look at all the other things. Once we have done so and we have found some satisfactory solutions to it, we can discuss an increase in the retirement age. So I don't really understand why SF wouldn't be in on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140453	It is true that there are many similarities between the two proposals for adoption, but Mr. Finn Sørensen must also think that there is a difference, because I myself submitted the proposal to Mr Sørensen. Finn Sørensen, who didn't think that Enhedslisten could feel covered by it. This is probably the most important thing about whether or not we should even have the possibility of raising the retirement age. SF does not reject an increase in the retirement age in advance if it is also part of a number of other initiatives and can be justified in a specific context.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140521	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140521-2	It is true that the reason why we could not agree is because the Enhedslisten and the Alternative say that we have to stop the madness that is going on with the fact that the retirement age simply increases in line with the average life expectancy. We will stop that, and then we will have a broad debate in the Folketing on the other things that the rapporteur so well mentioned. It must surely be the right order to do so if we are to ensure that we do not, if I may say so, scald a whole lot of people who are hit hard and unfairly. That is what the spirit of it is, but if that is what we can work on together, then it looks very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140604	Then the rapporteur has to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140604-2	It's obvious that it's not that far between us. That should be weird, because we've been discussing this theme a lot of times. There is little in relation to the prospect of a future increase in retirement age. But let me confirm SF's position. It is that we are opposed to the virtually automatic increase in the retirement age that lies in the welfare settlement, and we also voted against the increase to 68 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140624	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140636	This has been a long and exciting debate. It is nice to hear many views on this, but very briefly one can say that this question deals with two things. It deals, on the one hand, with the conciliation obligations relating to an increase in the retirement age and, on the other, with the consequences for employees forced out of the labour market long before retirement, either because they have worn out physically or because they do not have the necessary qualifications. I think, in fact, when I listened to the Minister's statement, that the Minister gave a very thorough account of both things, and I should therefore just like to make a few points about the Minister's statement. We know that the Danes today live a healthier life than before, and we know that the Danes today live longer than before. We also know that the Danes are expected to live even longer in the future. Of course, we must adapt our society to this. We have done so in the withdrawal reform in 2011, and we have done so when the current government and the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left raised the retirement age to 68 years in 2030. With the increasing life expectancy and better health among seniors, we see that more and more people choose to work longer and it is actually quite positive if you have the opportunity. There are, after all, now schemes which support the attractiveness of seniors to stay longer in the labour market. For example, you can continue to work while receiving a national pension, and then you get an increase in the national pension, or you can postpone the national pension and thus increase the national pension. These are systems that are being used by more and more people, and it is actually very positive that more people can stay on the labour market and contribute. As far as people who are worn out before retirement age are concerned, we already have schemes, so that employees in worn-out industries will be better able to participate in, among other things. The Minister has last year set up an expert committee on the working environment, which was given the task of considering the Danish work environment. The recommendations made by the Committee of Experts must then be discussed politically. I know that the government is focusing on the issues to which the question relates, and we on the conservative side are quite confident about that. We have also talked about working life and the working conditions offered in some places. We must certainly do something about that. And then we are talking about 2030, and we are saying: yes, the retirement age should be increased to 68, but what should it be in the longer term? It is also important to make it clear with regard to 2030, 2035, 2040 that no one here can predict how working life is progressing so far. We know that there are completely new tasks on the table, and we actually know that the working environment will be much, much better in the future. That is why we can say that we have looked forward to 2030 and an increase to the 68 years, and we fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109140957	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141000	It was only because the rapporteur said that we do not know what it is like in 2030. Yeah, we know a lot about that. I know exactly the people who are going to have the hard work at least some of them, because these are my former colleagues. I know what it does to their bodies, and I know that technology has not been invested in the field of health and safety. The study we received last spring by the Minister for Employment shows that we thought we could improve the working environment by 25%. in a number of important areas. It had deteriorated between 14 and 17 per cent. That is why we know a great deal about what will happen in the next 10 years. It's only 10 years, and it's just around the corner. If we, as politicians, do not dare to say that we know something about that, then there is nothing we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141054	What I said was that we do not know what labour supply should be by 2030. We know what it is like today and how it progresses until 2030. However, how the labour market develops and what jobs are needed by 2030-2035 for the new young people entering the labour market, we do not know anything about. But I agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that we know what the people who are in work today will be like by 2030 I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141122	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141123	Yes, and then it is arrogant to say that then it is still away the class that has the lowest pay and the hardest work and the shortest life, which once again has to pay for the next 10 years. That's what's unfair in these schemes. Why can we not have some arrangements where we then say: why can those who have delivered the hardest work in our society and received very little for it not have a right where you will get a pension when you are 65 years old, and then those who can and want to, let them have everything they want to have no problems in it? Then we will also give that group a decent senior life, and we are not doing so at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141202	I hope I have not seemed arrogant, because that certainly has not been my intention. But I still have to say, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we have some arrangements so that people who are worn out in the labour market and can no longer act have the opportunity, on the one hand, to get some retraining and, on the other, to get early retirement and everything else. So I hope I didn't seem arrogant. At least I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141226	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141228	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. So, the rapporteur said that it is firm that it has now been agreed that the retirement age will rise to 68 years by 2030. However, what is the Conservative People's Party's position on the text of the law, which says, of course, that the pensionable age should be further increased by 2020, but that this position should be based on the increase in average life expectancy? And already in 2015, when a majority in here decided that the retirement age should rise to 68 by 2030, the average life expectancy had increased so that the retirement age should be increased to 6911⁄2 years. Can there therefore be any doubt that by 2020 the Conservatives, together with all the other conciliation parties, will be voting in favour of raising the retirement age to 69 years with effect from 2035?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141330	Well, sir. Finn Sørensen has asked the same question to almost all other rapporteurs too. I just have to say that by 2020 a decision will have to be made on what the retirement age should be. It is true that the intention is that it may have to rise to 69 years or 691 1/2 years. However, we still have to say that it is a political agreement that needs to be made by 2020, and it has not yet been made. Conservatives stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141352	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141353	Does this mean that if the Conservatives come to the conclusion that the Conservatives, although the average life expectancy has increased, so that it justifies an increase to 69 years, do not think for any other reason that it should increase perhaps because there is too much dissatisfaction among the population, what do I know can the Conservatives just vote against an increase or block it being raised to 69 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141425	Well, Conservatives are part of the negotiations that are due to take place in 2020, and that is where we take our decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141431	Thank you, sir. Erik Lund, and then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141442	Thank you for the debate, although it is not me who, as such, has announced the question debate here. However, I think that in many ways it has been a debate which has been a repetition of the debate that took place in the spring. I can see that, sir. Finn Sørensen has already marked, so it's nice. Before he hears my gold grains, there's already a marker for questions, so we're back in business. Perhaps I should also take this opportunity to say that I think it is a good thing that we are discussing the prerequisites underlying political agreements, including some of the myths that are flourishing. And one of the things I think it is important to make clear here at the end is that with the 2015 agreement that has been referred to, it is indeed the case that a decision has to be taken by 2020 on what the retirement age should be for the future. And that is why I think it is very strange that we should be dealing with this today, because there are a number of other things that are part of the debate that is not known at the present time, among other things. this lifetime index, which is, of course, the whole prerequisite for the debate. However, I also think it is important to make clear what Mrs Lindahl actually said, which has not filled anything in the debate at all, namely that this is also about solidarity. I understand the word'solidarity' in the sense that we must also show solidarity with each other, and that is something we must ask ourselves: if anyone has to draw a very, very large load, in order for others to draw a very small load, is that solidarity? It is a question of how many years you have the opportunity to retire. I can already see from here that Mr. Christian Juhl has difficulty understanding my point, but then I would like to make it even clearer for Mr. Christian Juhl: Is it solidarity that some people can get a pension for perhaps 10 years, while others can get it for 25 years? Is that solidarity? That is what Mrs Laura Lindahl was trying to describe, not even tried, but very well described. This has not been so much a part of the debate. But the fact that we are getting older is really a joyous event. I believe that the only person who has problematized the ageing of the population today is Mr. Christian Juhl, who doubts whether it is true that we are getting older. And there's the happy news, sir. Christian Juhl, we're getting older. Who are we, sir? Christian Juhl? It's the Danes. We're one people, sir. Christian Juhl, and the Danes are getting older. I think you can be happy about that on such a sad Friday, where there is almost fog outside. That is why I think it should also be noted that if we are to have a strong welfare society, it also requires that we continue to contribute. And, of course, when we get older, it also makes demands on how to organize society. But all that I said a lot about in my answer to the question, which is why I would just like to thank you for the support from the government parties and the Danish People's Party for the policy that the government stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141747	I can reassure the Minister for Employment that Mr. Christian Juhl to make a brief comment, but first it is Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141754	Thank you. I don't want to disappoint the Minister. This is the one with the conciliation ties. I would like to hear from the Minister: is it free for each of the current conciliation parties, completely free of, whether they will vote in 2020 for a further increase in the retirement age to 69 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141817	It is actually very simple, because it can be said that overall conciliation means that changes in the retirement age require the acceptance of all conciliation parties and that each increase in relation to the agreed indexation mechanism must be adopted by law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141834	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141837	Then I have to try again: what we have to decide by 2020 is whether the average life expectancy has increased to an extent, so we have to increase the retirement age to 69 years. I think the Minister agrees with that, at least it is clearly described in the legislative text. My question is this: if the average life expectancy has increased and we know it is, because it was already in 2015 that if you are to comply with the text of the law, you have to increase the retirement age to 69 years. Is it the case that each conciliation party is completely free to vote in favour of or against an increase in the retirement age within the framework of the conciliation procedure in the situation I am describing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141924-2	If and if and if it is the case that it requires an active decision, and if there is a party that does not support the active decision to be taken, to raise the retirement age in relation to the decision on how it should be by 2020, then for good reasons this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141940	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109141943	I would like to attack the Minister's talk about solidarity. I believe that the Minister knows very well that we live in a class society where there is a difference between those who are best and those who have the worst feeling for those who are richest and those who are poorest. Some get an education of the community, even a high education I don't know what the minister has of education and a good, developing and exciting work. They can hold to work for a really, very long time, because they start relatively late on the labour market. They also usually have a very long and good old age. Others must take the heavy, monotonous, laborious work, for it must also be done, and they do not have the training to say no to it. Often it is at a low salary, lower than the academic and professor's, and often it is so that when they are 65 years old, there is not much profit in the body to get a good senior life. If that is the Minister's path to solidarity, then I would like to say that I object. Solidarity is that we have a fair level playing field, and that's what we have to try to do with this. For this reason,
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142100	It was an enormously long speech with a very difficult understandable question, so I shall try to make it relatively far, Mr President. Christian Juhl. I took the liberty of discussing the concept of solidarity, and it is, of course, a concept of which at least the left is very concerned. When Mrs Laura Lindahl then allowed herself to bring solidarity into this discussion, it is, of course, something that I think deserves some attention. I can get to sir. Christian Juhl informs me that I no longer have any higher education. I've been in high school for three years and have a high school education. That's it. There may be many different reasons for whether you have a long or short education and what job functions you have, but what must be important, Mr. Christian Juhl, is to make sure that if you get into the situation that you have a job type, that you are on your way to being worn out, then you can be retrained, make a change in your working life, that you have these opportunities. And there we live fortunately in a welfare society, where Denmark is one of the world's societies, where we have the very best conditions for it to be possible to do so, and where fortunately we can also enjoy the fact that technology is going to give us new opportunities in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142210	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142211	This certainly presupposes that we have a government that will aim for adult unskilled people to have a real opportunity to take a change of course, and that is to say another education. That is one point. The second point is that it also presupposes that there are some jobs in those areas. There can't be good office jobs for everyone. There must also be someone doing the heavy work, and I do not think there are very many academics who, on the other hand, will take the heavy job of garbageman, earth and concrete workers and the other things, when they are going to lack some people there. That's what's important, isn't it? And that's why we have to recreate the debilitating influence of the jobs so that everyone can keep a full life in the jobs they now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142253	Thank you. Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142254	Sir. Christian Juhl, who is usually very reflected in the working environment, forgets to discuss the psychological work environment. Oh, it's not like that. definition harder to have a physical job than sitting in an office and perhaps being exposed to a mentally hard work environment? For me it's not either-or, it's both-and. There is a need to do something both in relation to the physical working environment, but also in relation to the psychological, and that is why it is quite new that Mr. Christian Juhl here today is only concerned with the physical. I am quite sure that was a statement from Mr. Christian Juhl's side, for the zeal he usually has for working conditions must reflect it. I would just like to say that it is not true that nothing is being done about switching the track. I myself have been involved in a tripartite agreement last year for 2.5 billion. kr., where we provide much better opportunity for some of them with the worst skills to make a change of track than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142346	Then we thank the Minister. And then again it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Finn Sørensen, to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142402	Thank you. And thank you for a good and energetic debate; I think it has been. But now the Minister must listen! Dear Minister... Yes, that is how he can use my speaking time! Then I must continue in the hope that his officials will listen and tell him. Thank you! This is very important. One of the themes of this question debate has been the conciliation constraints, and there is a very interesting answer to my last question from the Minister. At the risk that I did not catch the exact wording here, I would hope that the Minister would go up and correct me afterwards, I understood that the Minister said that when it comes to deciding by 2020 whether to increase the retirement age further, a single party could block it, regardless of whether the average life expectancy has risen to a level which requires an increase in the retirement age. That is how I perceived the Minister's reply, and that is very interesting, because if it is true, it is positive. For then one can hope that the people and, above all, the forthcoming election campaign will put so much pressure on individual parties that they will start shaking hands when we reach 2020. So I would like to be quite sure whether I have understood the Minister's reply correctly, i.e. that by 2020 a single party can block an increase in retirement age, regardless of whether the increase in average life expectancy actually dictates that the retirement age should be raised to 69 years. I hope that I have understood it correctly, because then our discussion changes a little bit of character, you might say. I am then surprised at what we are going to do with a settlement where it is clear that we have tied each other up, that the retirement age must rise as the average life expectancy, or what is called indexing in a fine word. And what is to be done with a legal text that very clearly describes how it should be calculated and what it is that you should comply with a legal text from which I would like to read out a little, that is, from the remarks so that we can be absolutely clear about the mechanics of this. It is described in the comments to Bill L 40 from 2015-16, how to calculate this retirement age. There is a whole lot of technology, and I am skipping that for the sake of all those who are listening, including those in this Chamber. It says: "The retirement age thus calculated must be rounded off to the nearest six months, i.e. by law. Here for 69.5 years. It was therefore the average life expectancy at the time that said that in 2015 the retirement age should have been increased to 69.5 years. Then it goes on in the comments: When, according to the law, the retirement age can be regulated at the most by 1 year at a time, the retirement age must be fixed at 68 years with effect from 2030. If the mechanics had not been there, i.e. the last one, it had already been decided in 2015 to increase it to 69,5 years. And further, it describes what it has to do with consequences. It is, of course, the mechanics that we other parties who voted against it have attacked because we had the impression that that was what the settlement was based on. But now the Minister is saying that even if the average life expectancy has increased, so that it should actually be increased to 69 years, then a single party can block it. I certainly hope I have understood that correctly. And if the Minister does not go up here, I have to start with some written questions. I think it is a little important, in view of the forthcoming debate in the run-up to the parliamentary elections, that we have absolutely clear what the conciliation parties have tied each other up on. I would also like to comment on many of the other things. The fundamental injustice of using an average life expectancy obviously cannot be agreed upon, and it is probably not by chance that we cannot do so. However, I noted that virtually all the rapporteurs are talking about the need for us to have some arrangements so that we can withdraw from the labour market before retirement age if, for various reasons, we cannot stand by it anymore. I look forward very, very much to the fact that the same parties and rapporteurs very soon come up with some very concrete proposals on how they intend to implement it, so that it can also be included in a forthcoming election campaign. To all that about the lack of advice, I must just point out that the majority of the economic room for manoeuvre we have has been made available because of the planned increases in the retirement age. This means, in short, that ordinary workers are allowed to pay for welfare they may never be able to benefit from.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142907	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted shall take place on Tuesday 13 November 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142929	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 13 November 2018. For reasons of explanatory statement, it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mr President. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109142948	Thank you. The question is: what can the Minister say about the evaluation of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, and what initiatives will the Minister take against this background? Why do we have to discuss this again? I can almost hear someone asking. We have had regular consultations on this matter. Both Enhedslisten and other parties have called for consultations, and the Minister says that, and I believe that he and the conciliation parties are in the process of evaluating the whole reform. We need to discuss this because it is high time we put forward concrete proposals for solutions on the table. The reconciliation parties have been evaluated and evaluated for 11⁄2 years now. It is high time they pull themselves together and give some concrete answers to the many people who have been and are still being affected by this reform; some answers to those who are sent out in one hopeless course after another, from which they in many cases get worse; to those who are denied early retirement, even if they have very little or no ability to work; to those who would like to have a flex job at their present place of work, but cannot get it because of the way the law is arranged; to those who go down in wages because they change from the flexible job they have had for many years, to a new one, or who experience that they get a lower hourly wage than their colleagues; to the many who on top of illness and disability experience that they just become poorer, and the top purchase experience suspiciousisation at the job center. All these people are entitled to some clear answers and some solutions they can use for something, instead of this very long talk about how we evaluate and look at it. I also think that all the people and many, many others who are concerned about developments in this area are concerned about what opportunities they really have for a safe working life, if you are to go and fear being hit by an accident at work, have a right to receive concrete answers before the parliamentary elections, so that we can include it in the discussions before the parliamentary elections. I look forward to the Minister's reply and, of course, hope that he will unveil this process and when, hopefully, it will lead to some clear announcements today about what changes are actually going to be made to the legislation and how this reform is to be managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109143213	We thank the rapporteur for the questions, and then we turn to the Minister for Employment's answer. I would remind you that, with the new form, it is possible to make a brief comment immediately after the Minister's first speech, but only one brief comment and only the rapporteurs. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109143233	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for giving an opportunity to give a status on the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, which, fortunately, has been on the agenda many times during the time I have been Minister for Employment, and where it will then also be possible to discuss with today's debate how things look. After all, this is a really big reform with great consequences for many people. That is why we also have ample opportunity to discuss parts of the reform on an ongoing basis. Moreover, we have all had time to study the overall evaluation of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs and, as I see the question today, at least taking into account the wording, it is of course about what the evaluation shows and what initiatives I will take in the light of it. But before we get there, I think it might be very good to make a brief review of what has actually happened over the last year. For, before I arrive at what is to be done in the future, I would like to remind you that, after all, we brought forward part of the evaluation, more precisely the part that was about the rules on when citizens can be granted early retirement and when citizens should be in the process of taking resources. It was a very long-term discussion, a very important discussion which deserves a great deal of attention. The partial evaluation pointed out that in practice there were different understandings of which citizens could be granted early retirement without having first been in the process of resource development. Some municipalities had interpreted the rules tighter than others and also tightener than the intention of the political agreement back in 2012. The conciliation group therefore took the initiative in February to clarify the rules for the granting of early retirement pensions and the running of resources. I myself have taken the lead in the two years I have been Minister of Employment during countless consultations with Mr. Finn Sørensen. So it comes as no surprise to Mr. Finn Sørensen, that the promise I made was also delivered on. After all, the amendment of the law came into force on 1 June here in 2018. With the amendment of the law, we have now, I think, been given a clear and thorough clarification, which is based on the interface between resource development and early retirement, so that citizens in the future should no longer be caught up as a result of ambiguity about the rules. We have ensured a real change in practice. Prior to the amendment of the law, early retirement was refused on the grounds that it could not be excluded that the ability to work could be developed in a process of resource development. With the new rules, it is now clear that a process of resource development is only relevant when there is a development perspective in relation to the ability to work when the citizen can benefit from the effort, i.e. when it is realistic that the citizen can develop his or her ability to work in a process of resource development. We had a long debate on that, too, I think, initiated by Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen. That is why I note that we should be glad that this development has taken place. I also remember that the Enhedslisten actually came to support the bill because Enhedslisten considered that there were several good elements in that clarification, and that is why we had to vote in favour. It is rare for us to see the Enhedslisten vote yes to things in this way, but I would like to sign for that. Then Mr. Finn Sørensen will say in a moment that this change of practice is something I've come up with that you don't have any proof of that. That is why I think it is important today to say that, as a result of the amendment of the law, the Ankestyrelsen has repealed two decisions of principle. They described precisely the situations in which citizens had to go through the process of resource development, because it could not be excluded that the ability to work could be developed. The Ankestyrelsen would then later this year announce its new practice. I think this is a very strong signal to the municipalities that a different practice should be planned than hitherto. The change of practice is also reflected in the latest decisions of the Ankestyrelsen. The Ankestyrelsen has dealt with a number of complaints in which the municipality has decided before the law came into force, while the Ankestyrelsen has dealt with complaints after the law came into force. In concrete terms, this has meant that a larger proportion of the cases in which the citizen wants early retirement but has received a refusal from the municipality have been reversed or repatriated. In the third quarter of 2017, the Ankestyrelsen changed or repatriated 19 per cent. of the resource-cycle cases in which citizens wanted early retirement. By the third quarter of 2018, this figure had risen to 28%. Similarly, the proportion of new or withdrawn early retirement cases increased from 13%. in the third quarter of 2017 to 21%. in the third quarter of 2018. Subject to the fact that there are still a few cases, these are quite significant increases which cannot be avoided. In addition, I have noted that the country's largest municipality, the City of Copenhagen, has also started to adjust the efforts in this area. In the first three quarters of the year, Copenhagen has granted more early retirement pensions than in the whole of 2017. In fact, we have to go back to 2010, that is, several years before the reform was adopted, to find a year in which Copenhagen has granted more early retirement than this year. The City of Copenhagen itself states that the amendment of the law is part of the explanation that they are now granting early retirement to more citizens. At national level, there has also been an increase. In 2016, approx. 8,500 citizens granted early retirement. In 2017, it was approx. 10,000 people, and we expect the figure here for 2018 to reach about 12,000 confessions. There is every reason to believe that we have achieved what we in the conciliation circle set out to do with the reform: a situation in which as many people as possible are helped to develop their ability to work and become part of the working community and where those citizens who do not have the prospect of ever becoming part of the labour market will be granted early retirement. This also leads me to the overall evaluation of the reform. Overall, it shows that there are a large number of things that work well, even as intended, but, of course, there are also areas where reform is not in goal or where there are challenges. First of all, I am aware that the overall level of citizen satisfaction is very high. Many citizens are satisfied with their progress, and this applies regardless of whether the citizen is in the process of resource development, flexible jobs or early retirement. The most satisfied citizens are those who are granted early retirement or a flexible job. This also applies to flexible jobs with a few hours. Nearly nine out of ten are satisfied, while almost half of the citizens are satisfied in terms of resources. This tells me that we must stick to the basics that we have set in motion with the reform. I also note that more people who would have ended up in early retirement have become part of the labour market. In fact, I think that in every way is a success story. The most recent figures show that approx. 29,000 people work in flex jobs up to 10 hours a week. I would like to remind you that this was not a real possibility before the reform. Flex jobs were then targeted at more resourceful citizens who could work several hours. Almost 12 000 citizens have completed a process of resource development since the reform came into force. Almost every three months is 3 months later in employment, flex jobs, education or unemployment benefit. Is one third good or bad? you can ask. You can look at that differently. It may be difficult to reach an agreement on this. Whatever the case, however, we need to bear in mind that the target group for resource development is primarily people who would have been granted early retirement in the past. However, as I have said, the evaluation also points to a number of points where the reform is not in the objective. Let me highlight three points. Firstly, every five citizens, who have been at least six months in terms of resources, have not received any effort. We're going to discuss that. Secondly, the municipalities face major challenges in creating business-oriented offers in resource development, to which the rehabilitation team in eight out of ten cases turned the citizen. I cannot stress enough that it is quite unacceptable that municipalities should not be able to give their citizens better efforts in terms of resources. We shall also be discussing this. Thirdly, there are also challenges in relation to the flex-job area. The proportion of unemployed people searched for flexible jobs has been reduced from 24 per cent. in 2012 to approx. 17% in 2018. But we need to focus on that. We need to get the share down even further, and we will also be discussing that. We are actually going to discuss quite a lot of things, and we have started on it too. It was the case that in June we had called in the conciliation circle, as well as 19 of the largest and most central organisations in this area, in which we gave them the opportunity to put forward all their opinions and ideas on early retirement reform and the flex-job reform. Now we have created a political roadmap for the evaluation, which, as I remember, will start next week, which will run over five different thematic meetings, and which will result in political agreements, any adjustments to be made, with a view to making legislation. So the will is there for the conciliation parties, I notice that, and we are also showing that we have already acted on part of the challenge that was when I became Minister for Employment, namely the whole question of when to go into the course of resources, versus whether there is a working capacity or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144224	There is a request from Mr. Finn Sørensen on a short note and that's a
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144228	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Now I have not actually expressed any criticism of the Minister's perseverance and enthusiasm for entering into this discussion. We have some political disagreements about what it takes to do it right and to do the right thing. It is true that the Enhedslisten voted in favour of that amendment in June, and it actually expressed some confidence in the Minister, because the Minister was very honest about what that amendment meant: that this does not mean that more people will be granted early retirement pensions. This means that those who should have it will get it earlier. I think it was pretty much literal, as was said. It is clear that it can only be backed up in the expectation that a legislative proposal will have that effect. Now the Minister stressed that this amendment is going very well and that the municipalities have listened and so on, and it is only gratifying that I look forward to having such a thorough statement on paper, but we can certainly get that. My question is this: from the point of view of the Minister, is it the end of making legislative changes to the question of the very criteria for granting early retirement, or is it also part of the Minister's arsenal of possible changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144345	I think that the question must be a little more specific before I can give a full answer to it. I'll give it to you, sir. Finn Sørensen has the opportunity to give concrete expression to his rapporteur's speech. However, what I think has been the most important issue has been that we saw the sequence of resources, which did not bring anyone closer to getting a working capacity potentially rather the opposite. None of us could stand that. This was deeply unacceptable and that is why the clarification was made. I also note that the Enhedslisten voted in favour of that amendment. What we are discussing now is much more seriously, it can be said, the qualitative content of some of the elements in it. That is also why I am mentioning three themes that we are going to discuss, in addition to other themes that have also been decided. So I actually have to say that what we are facing now is a very serious approach to a very, very large reform, which I still think was a real political reform to do and which also has the overall perspective of not giving up people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144456	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144458	The Minister has on several occasions expressed impatience and frustration, as did the Minister before him, about how some municipalities choose to deal with this law. Can the Minister see other ways out of the pinch in which some citizens find themselves in the municipalities where the best interests of the citizen are not necessarily taken into account, other than that of providing citizens with a number of very specific rights, so that, regardless of the municipality, it will at any time be of benefit to the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144529	There is the possibility that you can make a law that is good and clear, because then there is no possibility of having such a room for manoeuvre. After all, we have precisely tightened up the practice that had developed, because we did not believe that it corresponded to the intention we had in 2012. That is why I believe it must also be said that the evaluation that is taking place now will also clarify and clarify what was behind that 2012 agreement. This will mean that there will be less room for manoeuvre for the individual municipality on some of these points. That, in fact, is what I am asking for to discuss. How we deal with this very precisely, I am not in a position to conclude now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144615	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the Minister and we shall move on to the debate. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109144631	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. It is, of course, gratifying that we have at least come into a situation, so what we are discussing is what we are doing so completely for ourselves inside a closed room; we others would like to discuss it here in the public eye is what concrete solutions we can come up with. That is a clear step forward. I would like to make a few general comments on the evaluation of the law, thanking us for the rich material we have received for that purpose. A little provocative, perhaps, I would say that from the point of view of the conciliation parties, the only such quite clear success as a result of this reform has so far been that the number of new early retirement pensioners has been drastically reduced. That was the stated purpose of the law. In addition, one third of the early retirement pensions have been awarded less than expected. In other words, the law is in fact much tighter than the conciliation parties thought. The pretext for the reform was, and is, that sick and disabled citizens should not be parked Therefore, resources were invented and flex jobs of less than 10 hours were created. This should lead to the development of working capacity and bring people closer to the labour market. It just doesn't work very much. As far as resource cycles are concerned, only 2-3 per cent will be in ordinary jobs after the end of the cycle. About half gets the early retirement they should have had immediately, and the rest is on other benefits or supported employment in the form of flex jobs in a few hours. As far as these flex jobs are concerned in a few hours, there is no development of the ability to work for 70%. by them. Only a minority are so fortunate, while others lose their ability to work during the flex job. It is, of course, good for those who get something out of their resources and who are happy with their flex jobs. This is something we can only welcome, regardless of what we think of that law. But this cannot compensate for the many thousands who have been refused early retirement, even though they have very little or no ability to work. Instead, they have been whipped through hopeless and in some cases directly harmful processes, often contrary to medical recommendations. The municipalities are unfortunately using the power given to them by the law to estimate that citizens can develop their ability to work in the long term The municipality should not even justify what it has its optimism in, or could indicate a specific job to the person concerned. The eternal chorus is that we must not leave anyone on the platform. I have spoken to and written with hundreds of people here. My impression is that these people do not feel that they have been left on the platform. They feel like they've been pushed over the tracks. They're desperate, angry, relentless. They feel suspicious. After 4 years, when the conciliation parties and changing ministers washed their hands and blamed the municipalities, we came so far in autumn 2017 that the minister acknowledged that it was probably necessary to make some legislative changes. I'd like to sign for him to start that job. Oh, my God, there's a long way from words to deeds. After 31⁄4 years of severe birth cramps, the mountain finally barred in June, but only a tiny mouse came out of it. Now, resources must indeed be relevant and promote a development perspective. It's a confession case, and it's a good thing you confess it. But since then, we haven't heard of the slightest woe from the big, silent mountain. It is not otherwise because solutions are lacking. The Enhedslisten, Dansk Folkeparti and the Alternative have over the years pointed to several concrete solutions. The LO and FTF have done it, the Elders Case has done it, 65 trade unions and disability organisations gathered in VærdgReform have also done so and have even appeared in the Folketing and the Minister and have presented their proposals. As the proposal for adoption will show, the Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and the Alternative believe that the legal work should be based on the six requirements that the organisations behind VærgReform have made. So a few words about them: 1) If the ability to work is reduced to 7 hours or less, the citizen must be free to choose between early retirement, resource progression and flexible jobs. 2) A maximum limit must be set on the duration of resources of five years and, if the citizen is not settled before, an early retirement pension must be legally required. 3) The citizen must be able to look for a resource cycle of his own. • a developmental process of resources must not be initiated until the endless work tests have pricked the last remaining energy out of the sick person. 4) The benefit during the course of resource development must be at the level of sickness benefit. 5) The 12-month requirement to get flexible jobs at your own place of work must be removed because restraint flexible jobs are the best tool to ensure employment links. 6) The trade unions must be given back the right of negotiation when it comes to employment in a flexible job, and pay must be paid under the agreement instead of the wage dumping which some flex jobs are pushing out today. Then, on behalf of Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party and the Alternative, I will read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposal for adoption: The Danish Parliament notes that the legislation on early retirement and flexible work is used to refuse early retirement to people with little or no ability to work, instead to refer them to further work tests or to hopeless and in some cases directly harmful resource processes. The Danish Parliament therefore instructs the government to submit legislative proposals by the end of 2018 on the basis of the VærdgReform proposals with the aim of stopping such practices in municipalities and the Ankestyrelsen and to ensure seriously ill people a decent treatment. V 14).
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145215	The proposal for adoption read out will be included in the further negotiations. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145231	Thank you. After all, the reform has now been delivered and it has actually been very, very exciting reading. It has also been reading that has confirmed me in the things that we Social Democrats actually want changed, and I would like to explain that here split up on various themes. Firstly, there are, in fact, too many people who experience a lack of quality in the course of resources and processes that take far too long, that is to say, unnecessary time. Here, we simply need to raise resources and make them even better with better quality and ensure that action is focused on action. We also need to ensure that people do not wait for years for something to happen after they have been granted a programme of resources. I think there are a lot of people who would like to be helped. I'm sure of that, but of course it must also make sense, and if it doesn't, it's really, really difficult. Secondly, we also need to focus more on the citizens. I think we have all heard of people who feel that they are being chased around in things that they do not understand and that they do not feel they influence; that they are tired and sad when they go into a meeting in the municipality, but unfortunately even more tired and sad when they leave. In the municipalities where you try to involve some of these citizens or where you do it I have visited some of them myself • actually managed to get the citizens at the centre, and that actually also gives good results. This is actually very simple, because we just have to do it with the sick, so they feel helped and don't feel hunted, but feel safe. Thirdly, we have succeeded in getting more in flex jobs and thus closer to the labour market. When Mr. Finn Sørensen says that the goal was to get fewer early retirement, so that's right, but it wasn't just to get the fewer on early retirement; it was kind of to get them into a job. In other words, there is no one who can object to us getting more closer to the labour market. Who can object to that? And if some of those we really get helped who would have been on early retirement come in and get a flex job who can mind? No one can. There you can also see from the evaluation here that there are actually a great many of these flex jobs who are satisfied with what is really a great satisfaction. Then there's just that problem, and we're gonna have to solve that. We're gonna have to bring a lot more flex jobs, because, as the Minister of Employment said, 17 percent are still gone. I would like to say a few words about the flex jobs that are not in work, and we simply need to get that figure down. That is why we have fought in the Social Democratic Party in the last lot of wage-pool negotiations for a more inclusive labour market, and we will continue to do so, and we will do so in these negotiations in order to get even more of these flex jobs. Finally, I would like to mention some of the things that have also been discussed and that are very important, namely all those who have been chased around in the course of resource development, but who really just had to have an early retirement pension. We have made the clarification that the Minister mentioned, and I have to say that I think it seems to have worked because we do not see as many examples in the press as we did in the past. Whether it's because they're not there or because the press doesn't write about it, I can't know, but I don't have a second in doubt about what the minister actually said that with the reaction of the City of Copenhagen and others it seems that it has really helped. But I also have to say from here that if it turns out that it does not help and that it goes the other way, then we have to take up our responsibilities again and look at further clarifications. We must, of course, follow this closely. So I still believe that the intentions of the reform are good. There are things that have begun to work, but there is still a long, long way to go. We have helped to make these reforms, which is why we will of course also take responsibility for them and make them much better, so that we get more closer to the labour market, but also that we treat people decently and properly. They certainly deserve that, and we must. Now we are in the process of addressing all the themes and having a good talk about it, and we must also have time to do so, which is why I know that we are already getting started quite soon, because it needs to be done properly. I also think that we need to say to ourselves that we should be careful not to make this delay too long, because there is room for many improvements, but there are also many people waiting for these changes. With that, I would just like to say that I look forward to the negotiations. This is going to be incredibly exciting, and I am sure we can make a lot of good changes. And then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the overall evaluation of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs generally represents a positive picture of the work of the reform, but also points to a number of challenges. The Danish Parliament follows the area closely and notes that in the last session a unanimous Parliament adopted a legislative amendment specifying the interface between resource progression and early retirement. The amendment of the law made it clear that a process of resources is only relevant when there is a realistic expectation that the citizen can benefit from the effort. Parliament notes that the conciliation circle behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs has started discussions on the evaluation of the reform to address the challenges identified by the evaluation. • V 15).
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145741	The proposal for adoption read out is part of the further negotiations. There is a desire for short remarks, and that is first Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145750	I have to say that, frankly, I think that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen makes too many small jumps on the spot. The sick, the vulnerable, the vulnerable in the country cannot continue to wait for something to happen, and they cannot live on friendly thoughts alone, if that is the case. So, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen: What concrete proposals do the Socialists come up with for these negotiations? What concrete steps have to be taken so that citizens are made stronger so that they do not become throwing balls around in the municipal processing system?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145825	Now, sir. Karsten Hønge is so lucky he's in these negotiations, so sir. Karsten Hønge is one of those who will see it when we get to the negotiations. But I am also looking forward to seeing what Karsten Hønge then delivers from stakes and what he delivers from negotiating proposals when we get there. So my answer to Mr. Karsten Hønge is: We get plenty of opportunity to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145845	The second brief remark to Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145849	Could it be brought a little closer by asking about the views of the Social Democrats on the proposals put forward by the organisations behind ValuegReform?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145859	I've done that before. Unfortunately, we do not have much speaking time, and now I see that there are 30 seconds left, and it counts down rather quickly, so I cannot reach all six of them. But I can at least say that when we come to the negotiations, we will make some suggestions. On the basis of the themes I have already mentioned, I think we can see what we are dissatisfied with and what problems there are, and that is very good in line with what the evaluation also shows and what the citizens are also telling us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145919	Sir. Finn Sørensen with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145923	I would therefore like to give the rapporteur a second chance at Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge's question and then the rapporteur can have a whole minute, and he may also have half of my minute to answer what the rapporteur then thinks about the proposals that have come from the parties behind VærgReform. These are some very concrete proposals, so it must be easy to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109145945	I would like to say quite clearly that there are many things. I think that such a thing as maintaining flex jobs should of course be looked at, because it is important. I have also seen that it costs a great deal of money, but we must then challenge it and take it up. Then there's the one about whether you can choose for yourself whether to have a flex job or early retirement if it's underneath, I think it's 5-7 hours. Now you have to listen, because I have actually talked to someone who started with a few hours, but who later got more, and he said: it was a good thing that I was not able to choose myself then, because then I would have chosen to take an early retirement pension, and I am glad to be in flex jobs today. So it's just not that simple, it's just not that simple, which is why I would much rather make sure that these people get an opportunity to be closer to the labour market, but I also want us to behave properly with them. And I think it is wrong for those who are not involved in this to try to make it sound as if we do not want these people the best, because we will, and that was actually the intention of the reform, and that is what we are trying to do. That is also why we are trying to change the reform, because we can see that it has not worked as intended and because it is important for us to do better for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150052	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150055	I do not think there is any desire in this proposal to force anyone to be on early retirement. You also have the opportunity to choose back again, so that was such a slightly sought answer. I would like to ask the rapporteur something: how does he see the timetable for the evaluation now under way? And is it the case that the Social Democratic Party is prepared to provide concrete solutions as soon as possible? The reason I am asking is that the rapporteur's chairman, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, said at the Social Democratic Congress that this was something that had to be done with her at the end of the table, because she was the one who had done that reform. It could be a signal that you might not be in such a hurry, so you'd rather wait until after the elections, in the hope that she is prime minister. Then I have a very specific question: will it be the case that Mrs Mette Frederiksen's promise to abolish bed practice becomes part of the solutions we are talking about with the other conciliation parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150153	What was meant by the announcement by Mette Frederiksen was to send out a clear signal that, in the context of the reform that was made at that time on our watch, there were some things that had to be improved. I think that was a very good signal, and that is also the signal I am sending here. To the question of whether we should make any concrete changes as soon as possible, I can only say: yes, we must.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150213	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150216	I would also like to be a little generous and give the rapporteur a little extra speaking time. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that the trade unions should once again be given the opportunity to ensure that flexists work on contractual terms and not under the limited arrangements we currently have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150234	What is funny is that when the two rapporteurs give me extended speaking time, they are already using their speaking time to the full. I think that's pretty funny. In fact, I think we should also look at the working conditions of these flex workers; we should. We have to see if the working conditions they have are good enough. We're gonna do that. Well, I have to say to Mr. Simpson. Christian Juhl, that I actually believe that we have to go through all this. That's also why it has to take some time. We have to do it properly and we simply have to discuss: is there enough that has the opportunity to get a flex job? Aren't we gonna get that unemployment down? Are they doing well in the workplace? We have to discuss all this. It's not an easy round, but we have to do it, because I think all these people deserve that. So I can just say that we are going to discuss a great many things, including many of the proposals that have come from different trade unions and all sorts of other things. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150329	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150332	Well, I asked a question in 15 seconds, and I'd like to do it again. Should the trade union have the right to be involved in negotiating the conditions for the creation of flex jobs, so we are sure that it is not under contractual terms that it is a lot of time, that it is a hassle and that we should look at that? Do they have to?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150352	That is the kind of thing I will start to discuss when we come to the negotiations, because I think that is one of the things we must at least promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150357	No one else has asked for brief comments to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150410	Thank you. In the last question on early retirement, it was said that there would soon be an evaluation, and it came here just before the summer break this year. Now the year is coming to an end, and that is why we expect the Minister for Employment to be able to explain what we can expect from changes in the law. Does the evaluation provide a basis for changes to be made for the benefit of those who are waiting for clarification? Or is the Minister still gonna keep us in the dark? For the Danish People's Party, it is quite clear that there is a need for changes in the efforts being made for citizens with problems and those who are waiting for clarification. The Danish People's Party definitely believes that there is a need for the resource cycle to be of shorter duration than it is today. It has to be done in 1 year, max. 2 years, to provide citizens with clarification. It is unreasonable to delay it. In fact, a lot of people get sick from walking and waiting for this clarification in the process of resource development. We still need to take account of the opinions of specialists. It cannot be right for a municipality to send a citizen to a specialist and then not to take that opinion of the specialist into account. It is still very unclear what is an obvious case when it comes to granting early retirement. It's really, really hard for the case workers to assess it. There are still many who are unnecessarily dragged through one work test after another, still without rapid clarification, although they cannot do much in the labour market. As the Danish People's Party looks at it, it should be the case that if you cannot work at least 5 hours a week, then you should have the opportunity to choose between early retirement and flexible jobs. That is not to say that we will prevent it if someone wants a flex job, even if they have a working capacity of less than 5 hours a week, of course not. However, the fact that there are still citizens who say that they are being dragged through an inappropriate process of resource which appears to only intend to extend the period before a flexible job or early retirement can be awarded is simply not acceptable. The clarification of the rules on the development of resources that came in the spring has apparently not had a very great impact either, as many municipalities are still working on as if nothing had happened. At the same time, the Minister promised that there would be some changes when the conciliation circle had discussed the evaluation of the reform. So when does the Minister say what changes are to be made as a result of the evaluation that has been made? Or does the Minister think that everything is good enough and that there is no need for any change? I don't think the Minister thinks so anyway. However, we look very much forward to hearing what the Minister is making of changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150718	That did not give rise to any comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109150730	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for putting this topic to debate. It has been, still is and will continue to be an important debate which we must take and which we should take. When I look around the Chamber, I do not see a single party or a single person who does not want the best of our fellow citizens. We all want the citizens who need help to have it too. We all want to create a society in which we hold our hands under those who cannot and where we give a loving nudge to those who can, but who may need to be helped a little on the way. We all want a system in which those who can provide, while those who cannot, must benefit from the community's help. This should and must be the case, and I assume there is broad agreement on this in this Chamber. That is why we are still fundamentally pleased with the reform that was achieved by a broad majority in the Folketing. The intention of the reform is clear: we want to ensure that fewer people are left to themselves on early retirement and that more people get into employment. It is not, of course, the same as being able to have a full-time job from one day to the next, but a little must also be right, and for us it is of great value that we contribute to the extent that we can, and I think that it is for the individual citizen as well. That is why we are firmly behind the reform we were in when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was Minister for Employment, because it was and is a step in the right direction. But nothing is perfect, not even a reform made by the current party chairman and prime minister candidate for the opposition, and just to clarify, because there will soon be more prime minister candidates in the red bloc than there are parties, I am thinking here of Mette Frederiksen. For there we know all the cases where there are people being dragged through long and basically meaningless employment efforts, cases where people are being put aside and the system is going on in its trummer, among other things. the number of early retirement pensions awarded has varied across municipalities, and this means that Bent in Kolding has had more chance of getting an early retirement pension than Birgitte in Copenhagen. Of course, we cannot accept that, and that is why we have also clarified the rules so that the law has become more concrete and there is less room for interpretation. It is also made clear that the citizen can avoid resource flows and receive direct early retirement when it is estimated that there is no perspective on such a process of resource development. In this way, we have also fine-tuned our legislation. This debate has been raised on the basis of the overall evaluation presented back in March, and the evaluation shows that there is room for improvement. There are still citizens in resource cycles who do not receive the efforts they should make, as well as municipalities who face great challenges in creating business-oriented offers in the resource cycle. Similarly, many citizens are still searching for flex jobs but have not yet got them. It gives room for improvement. That is not right, and the Left expects the municipalities to do better in their efforts towards citizens in the process of resource development. But the evaluation also shows positive results. A great many citizens are satisfied with their progress and more people who would have been placed on early retirement now become part of the labour market. I welcome this, not least on behalf of the individual citizen, and this shows me that, overall, we are moving in the right direction. In conclusion, I would just like to return to my starting point for the speech, namely that we all want the best for our fellow human beings, but we recognise that we can, of course, disagree on what is best, but the Left continues to support the reform on the basis of two simple considerations. One is that those who can provide must provide while those who cannot must benefit from the Community's help. The second consideration is that we will not give up people for a lifetime benefit, because we believe that people will have a better and more meaningful life of having a job. Then I can see that the President has stood up and that is why I will conclude by saying that we are looking forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151251	Further comments may be made. It's first, sir. Finn Sørensen and then Mr. Sørensen. Christian Juhl, who has asked for the floor. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151257	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for his speech and also for the recognition that there is room for improvement in this reform. But when you hear the rapporteur's last remarks, you ask yourself: what are the improvements that the Left really wants? We should not abandon people to a life-long early retirement pension, in other words, as if giving up people who cannot work and have no ability to work is giving them an early retirement pension. I guess it's not giving them up. I guess it's helping them in their lives to a rather more secure situation. So what exactly does the Left want out of the evaluation and political negotiations that are going to start here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151344	This could be a bit of a repetition of what I said in my speech. After all, the evaluation shows that the content of the resource processes in which people are in can be improved, that we need to be better at, when a flex job has been awarded, that you will also get into a flex job. Then I would like to follow up on what I said in my speech, and it was, of course, that the situation before the reform was that people, albeit with a small capacity for work, did not become part of the labour market, part of the working community. After all, they were granted an early retirement pension, and that is why I am delighted that today we can get even people with a small capacity to work out to become part of the working community, and that is what I think is good, both for the individual and for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151439	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151442	Thank you. This is not really an indication of the situation before the reform. For there it was so and so it is still gone that a great many early retirement workers had a job, a spare job, and that according to the law they also have to earn up to a certain amount of money without being penalised financially, if you may say so. So there was a chance of that before, and there is a chance of that now. So that is not a very good reason for making the reform that was being done. But that means that the ambitions of the Left in the negotiations do not go farther than that we should have better content in the process of resource development and that those who are searched for a flex job should have a flex job? Are these really the only shortcomings that the rapporteur can see?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151528	Now I look forward to having some very good discussions in the conciliation circle on the whole evaluation. After all, we started it this spring with the legislative change that we made, which improves the reform and also improves the conditions for those people who are not able to work and who are thus able to have more rapid access to early retirement. We are discussing all proposals for improvements to the early retirement and flexible job reform, and we look forward to the discussions. I just mentioned some of the elements that I see we have to thank.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151607	Sir. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151612	There are examples of people being run over by the system, the rapporteur said, somewhat freely interpreted. Rights to people, opportunities to choose freely, isn't that a liberal value? I'm asking because I think this system has gradually become impervious and incredibly paternal. There are no options, and I would like to hear from the Left: do you want to work to ensure that there are options and rights for the people who have come into the serious situation of having reduced working capacity? These may be the six requirements, for example. The first is that a working capacity of less than 7 hours has a free choice between flex jobs, resource cycles and early retirement. I'm asking because I think you can put a little more dignity into this system. There is really room for improvement in terms of the free right of people to have an influence on their situation themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151715	I have also taken note of those proposals, which we will be discussing, including in the conciliation circle. As a starting point, I am sceptical about the fact that it is a certain number of hours that makes it necessary to have an early retirement pension or not to be entitled to an early retirement pension. For history shows that there are people who have been given a flex job of 2 or 5 hours, who then actually work even more, i.e. today, and who are happy that it was a flex job they were given, and not an early retirement pension. I think we should be aware of that. I do not want to be a part of giving up people who have a working capacity and thus can become part of the working community.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151809	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151811	Well, I do not understand why the rapporteur keeps talking about giving up people. You have to give people the opportunity to choose to have a little influence on their lives instead of some placing them in one box or another. I would like to tell you a story about an acquaintance I have who came on early retirement at a young age because she was ruined in the back of being a nurse. When the municipality offered her that she could try a flex job with the express guarantee that she could get back on her early retirement, she dared to jump out. For 15 years now, she has had a full - pay job at a school and has done a very good job for difficult young people because she had a security and a right to choose. Why can't we build something like this into the system to a much, much larger extent, that is to say give more opportunities and thus make more people have a good life and feel that they have an influence on their lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151905	But today, if you are on early retirement, that is to say if you are what we are talking about here, there are people in relation to flexible jobs, i.e. who are not yet on early retirement but who cannot work full-time. And that is where I think we need to improve the reform. We need to make the quality of the flex jobs, of the resources we are implementing much better than today, because we need to help people. I am also saying that we should not park people on early retirement if they have an ability to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151946	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109151948	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on the previous question, sir. Christian Juhl's, more ideological questions about the concept of freedom. Every time the Left is presented in this Chamber, the Left is presented as the Liberal Party of Denmark, and how does the rapporteur feel about us having an employment system based on coercion in the middle of our liberal country? When we have that, does it not mean that personal freedom, one's sovereign freedom, has somehow been abolished and that it is we who are at the muff, we who have worked, who can control those who are unemployed, who are sick, who are at risk? Is it not to compromise on the concept of freedom, and is it not such a ruler and subject concept, at the moment we have to decide what so incredibly many people should spend their lives on?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152043	No, I don't think so, because you have to remember that you have freedom in this country. If you want to support yourself, you can do so regardless of your ability to work, but if you want to be supported by the public, then I think it is important that there is a dialogue between the person concerned and the public system and that we in the Folketing are trying to agree on the rules of the game. Then I fully agree that this dialogue must be much better and that the municipalities must be more concerned with helping people, either with an early retirement, if you are entitled to it, or with a flexible job and on as part of the working community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152133	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152135	However, there are a lot of people who want to support themselves, but we do have unemployment as part of the market economy system, so there will always be many who want to support themselves, but which we still put under compulsion. Can the rapporteur understand why we sometimes find it difficult to understand that the rapporteur calls it help or that the rapporteur says that people will not be abandoned? Can it not be translated as if we are actually forcing people who would like to have a job to do certain things because we want to, provided that we pretend they do not actually want to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152213	No, I do not think that is the view. We want people to be helped in the early and flex-job reform. The story was, of course, that we unfortunately had a lot of people parked on an early retirement pension, and I do not think that this is something we should strive for. If there is a working capacity, then I think it is clearly preferable to be part of a working community, and we must help people to do so. And then it is not the case that no one gets an early retirement pension in Denmark. We may round 12,000 this year here in 2018, and it may be even more next year, so that option is still gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152304	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152317	In the Liberal Alliance, we are pleased with the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. We think it is quite obvious that many early retirement pensions were granted before the reform, that the system provided poor incentives for additional employment, that there were too large differences in municipal treatment and that the flexible job system helped to support some rather wealthy citizens. The reform has not gone smoothly; major reforms rarely do. We have seen a number of foolish cases and we have continually tried to improve legislation. There has been a criticism of the flows of resources that are justified. There are cases where common sense would give a different procedure to that which has taken place. However, there are also a number of cases where citizens have been frustrated without it being an expression of a problem with the system. It seems fair to me that the system spends some time making sure that a sick person's condition is of a nature that makes him unable to develop his or her ability to work before sending him or her on permanent support. For the sick citizen, the process can be frustrating even if it is necessary. Then there are also a number of cases where there is a discrepancy between how the citizen sees his own ability to work and what it actually is. In Frederiksberg Municipal Council I have been chairing the Employment Committee and I have seen a number of cases where citizens have no longer been able to carry out their very physically demanding jobs. They often felt that they should then have an early retirement pension or a flexible job with quite a few hours, even if they had an ability to work, which meant that they could work on ordinary terms in another job function. I fully acknowledge that it can be really, really difficult after many years in a profession and having worked in a particular industry for many years to have to adjust to completely change track. But I would also like to insist that we should have a society in which, if you can support yourself, you must support yourself, even if it is a different industry. But it is quite understandable that when citizens meet it, they criticise the system. But again, I also believe that we must insist that permanent dependents should be for those who do not have the opportunity to support themselves. It takes time to clarify, and some people need to be told that they have to go back to the labour market. We have rights and we have obligations as citizens, and the balance between rights and duties seems to me to have improved with the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152617	There is a request for a brief comment, first from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152624	I'd like to drill a little bit more into that liberal thing. Because sometimes I think it's almost a fake sales description. In some legislations, the liberals or liberals, as I usually call them, are more immoral and more patronising than all other parties, for example. In this case. When there is a discrepancy between how the citizen views the situation and what the situation really is, it is the system that is right, says the rapporteur. It's the system that knows best. Is that a liberal approach to life? Is it a liberal approach not to ask the citizen and take the citizen seriously and believe in how the citizen experiences things? When should people have rights in one of the worst situations, namely when you cannot do the job anymore and when you can no longer support yourself? What are the rights of liberal parties, for example? Liberal Alliance, that you should have in such a situation? Shouldn't you have the right to say something against the worst things? If you can only work under 7 hours, for example, as some have suggested here, should you not have the right to say that then you will choose the pension, then you will choose the course of resources rather than the flex job? It may also happen that you choose the flex job, and then you have the right to it. When will human rights be granted? When do the liberals start saying that man must be ahead of the system?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152749	Those are big questions that are hard to answer. But let me try. There are clearly challenges to being liberal in a welfare society such as the Danish one. The problem with being liberal is, of course, that we have arranged ourselves in a way that means saying 'no' to services paid by other people. When you want people to have a right to quit, it is a right to receive some benefits for which other people have been forced to pay. That is, of course, the dilemma for a liberal like me. I know we disagree, but that's just my starting point. I don't think you have very many rights or should have very many rights when your rights include coercion of others. You may say no, but if you want to get other people's money, then we need to get some professionals in there to assess your ability to work. That's my approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152853	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152855	Yes, I am aware of that, and it is not the rapporteur as a person that I think is arrogant, but that is the position. These are people who have paid taxes in a lifetime. They've taken the heaviest jobs we have in society. They have also had relatively low wages for most of their lives. If they're gonna be humiliated by knowing they're stealing other people's money, my game ends here. For they themselves have paid in anticipation that the tax they have paid could secure them when it once went wrong. Many of them have come innocently in the situation they are in, so that's not a nice way to talk to those people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109152936	Well, I'm sorry my attitude is being interpreted as a special way of speaking to these people. This is my position, and I think it is most honest to stand up and say that this is the way it is. But I fully agree and understand that you get frustrated when you have paid taxes for a lifetime and then feel that you must finally have something back. But that can be solved by setting up private insurance schemes instead. Now we have a welfare society where you pay into a common fund, where the community then also defines what this money is going to do. Sir. Christian Juhl can get over it if, instead of paying into the community itself, people take out insurance. Then they also have that money if they want to withdraw.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153012	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153014	Thank you. It is true that my colleague understood that this was not a liberal speech made by Mrs Laura Lindahl, but it was a liberal speech and it was quite clear. If you are not satisfied with what you get from the public sector, then you can just take out an insurance policy; it is so modest to people who cannot get a job that has been deprived of their daily subsistence allowance. because Mrs Laura Lindahl has voted in favour of shortening the benefit period and living for an integration benefit which the Institute of Human Rights considers to be at odds with the basic law, etc. That is not true when the rapporteur says that she is not in favour of coercion against other people. The rapporteur certainly does. I have just mentioned a few examples here. But let it be; we could spend all afternoon on that without getting any closer. What I am curious about is whether the rapporteur thinks that there is any need for changes in legislation at all. It's nice for the rest of us to hear a little bit about when Laura Lindahl sits at the table in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153121	Let me first state that it is quite true that I am a liberal. I am, and I'm proud of that. That's what I am. In my book, there is not much difference between liberalism and liberalism, but I am a liberalist. In relation to whether we want to change the law, I would say that we are now discussing the evaluation, which the Minister has set out to do, and that is where we are, of course, sitting. But I think I can be honest here and say that if it were up to us, then it was harder to get on early retirement than it is today. That is clearly my approach to it, and I think Mr. Finn Sørensen knows. I think it should be harder to deal with a high level of long-term benefits such as early retirement, and if it were up to me and my party, then we would impose further restrictions on entering into this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153213	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153215	Thank you. That's pure words for the money. The rapporteur says that if it is up to her, it should not be easier, that is, if it is up to Mrs Lindahl. Then the question is: will Mrs Laura Lindahl take advantage of the right of veto that she has as a conciliation party to prevent some relaxations from being made in this legislation, so that it might be easier to get both early retirement, resource progression and flexible jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153247	Well, there is no doubt that the Liberal Alliance is not interested in relaxing in this area. We do not think this is the right way to go. We see that Sweden, which grants much, much fewer early retirement pensions than Denmark does, manages to get more people into work. We think we should look at other options. We should not relax in relation to early retirement, we are not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153308	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153310	Thank you. I think the rapporteur forgets that unemployment is an existing part of the market economy; it is always there. Right now it is low and it has been lower yet, but it has also been high for many periods. And when the rapporteur says that people should just be ready to take a job in another industry, etc., I think the rapporteur is a little forgetting that there are a number of people who have to be unemployed at all times because we have introduced a system of which unemployment is a permanent part. If this is a person who just wants to get a job and is ready to change to which sector it should be, but where you are in a period of 8-10 per cent unemployment, does the rapporteur still think that you should have deprived him of his freedom and be able to be forced into an employment system, i.e. if it is the case that he just wants a job no matter what?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153403	Well, the reason we've done this whole employment system is because we want to make sure that people do everything they can to get a job, that is, because we have historically had very high benefits in Denmark. Therefore, it has been worried that it is more attractive for people to hang on high benefits than to take any job in any other industry. So we are interested in a system where the incentives to take any other job are greatest. Then it is clear that we would like to relax some of the demands, because it is expensive to have an employment system like that which we have in Denmark. But we are only ready for that when we have set up the system in a way that makes sure that it is always worth taking any job in any industry at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153453	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153455	Now that we are discussing it with liberalism, I think that the moment we start to force people who would like to, and the moment we start to put thumb screws on people who are actually being burdened with all the control and coercion that sometimes, like, prevents them from getting the work they could get and which they could get better help to get, if the support they received was based on their situation, then it goes for me from being liberal and I myself grew up in a liberal family with liberal freedoms, which I respect to become neoliberal because it becomes a liberal ruler-under-the-view.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153536	Neoliberals, liberals, liberals, dear child has many names. Well, this is all about how long you want to live off other people's money, it is reasonable to make demands; then I think it is reasonable as a society to raise expectations and say that you can only do so for a certain period of time, for a certain amount of money, and if, moreover, you meet some requirements • so to be sure that people only do it for need and not because they want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153613	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109153629	I recognise that there are some people who have been helped by the early retirement and flexible job reform, but the reason why we are standing here is because there are very, very many people for whom it has been a disaster. I have said before from the platform that we have done something in our rooms, which was 24 hours for those affected by the reform, where well-known people read reports from people's encounter with the employment system. That wasn't nice reading. There were so many sad stories about people fighting and people losing heart in this system. We will now publish the stories in book form, and there you will also see that it is awful sometimes for many people who have paid taxes all their lives to meet the Danish employment system. Something that characterizes those stories is that no matter how sick people are, no matter how injured they are, there is very little self-pity, there is very little self-pity. You fight as best you can to get back on your feet and be something for your kids, maybe even get a job. But there is one thing that plagues all these hard-ridden people, and that is the inevitability, that is the lack of logic in meeting the system that forces them to do something in which they cannot see the meaning. You can expose people too much, but if you take their will away from them and replace it with coercion and control in a regime that doesn't make sense, then it's a sure way to break people down. We think it is unworthy. We think it is obscene and unnecessary. We have economic recovery in our society. We have good times. So it is a political choice when we choose to save on support for sick and vulnerable and poor Danes. And what is even worse, it is a political choice when you choose to lift the freedoms of vulnerable Danes. This is happening in many parts of society at the moment. This happens when we force children in vulnerable residential areas to go to day care when they are 1 year old. It happens when we force people to wear certain clothes. And this is happening to a great extent in the employment system, in which we include hundreds of thousands of people's freedoms, assuming that they do not want to work if we do not force them to. The most amazing thing is that it is a bourgeois-liberal government that defends that you can take people's freedom away from them because they have become ill or injured or unemployed. So freedom is not universal, so freedom is not universal for everyone, so it is a ruler-subject freedom where all of us who are at the muffin can force unemployed and sick Danes around in a senseless employment system because they have become ill, affected by layoffs or have fallen off a ladder for that matter. That is why the fight against control and senseless coercion is also a fight for freedom in my optics, and the social resistance movement to which we often refer is in my optics a freedom movement. It is a struggle for the social rights of all of us, because we can all fall from a ladder or be hit by something that means that we suddenly stand in front of the employment system and come under compulsion from day one. In the alternative, of course, we can support the text which Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten has read up and gathered some parties around in this consultation. It's us, it's DF, and it's Enhedslisten. We are grateful that 62 organizations representing, I think, more than one million employees have entered this debate and come up with a number of proposals which seek to give sick Danish citizens greater social freedoms and a more dignified treatment. We are, of course, ready to go further in the alternative, because we are sure that people want to. We simply believe that if people are given the freedom to do what they want, they will reach much, much longer and take the initiative to go much further in their lives than if they are forced. So we have to create a framework for one to live a dignified life and keep one's pride, even if one is ill or injured or poor in Denmark, otherwise we simply leave too many vulnerable people at the bottom of this society without hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154030	It is not a good thing to applaud in the Chamber. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154037	Thank you. Basically, I believe that there is something about the concept of freedom that the rapporteur has misunderstood in relation to, at least, my party. When we talk about freedom, it is the negative freedoms. It means freedom from and when you talk about freedom to it was just the first thing to get it in place. In addition, I would like to know whether the alternative believes that the right to benefits, whether it be flex jobs or the course of resources or early retirement, should be determined on the basis of one's own assessment of whether one is too sick to be able to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154125	We recognise that in the past too many early retirement pensions might have been given. Well, a young person of 21 years of age, I'd say must have many more different types of good offers first. The problem with this is that when you tried to solve it, you made a forced regime that has been cut too hard so that thousands of Danes are getting worse and worse while they are parked in endless resource sequences and job tests, often because of box thinking. That's what we think is quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154158	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154202	Okay, but the rapporteur is not answering my specific question. Should the right be triggered when you consider yourself too ill? There is therefore, and I hope the rapporteur will acknowledge this, a difference between people's own perception of what they can and the assessment that professionals make of them. So we have this dilemma. This is a real dilemma in reality and there is what I am saying that I think professionals should assess whether you should have the right to other people's money. There I ask the alternative: does the alternative mean that it is the individual who has to carry out the assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154240	Well, I acknowledge that if we solved the system completely, there would be some who would try to cheat. However, if we align legislation with the one that will try to cheat, we will make it a nightmare for the thousands who just want to move on in their lives. Unfortunately, that is what we have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154258	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154310	Thank you. The Radical Left is, after all, part of the reform we are now talking about in connection with the question here, which concerns the evaluation of the early retirement and flexible job reform. In concrete terms, then, after the review of the reform, five thematic meetings have been arranged by the Minister, to whom the Radical Left is going with great willingness, in order to make adjustments, because we have read with interest the evaluation of the early retirement and flexible job reform and can see that there are a lot of things that could be adjusted. We have a great willingness to make adjustments. It is certain that there must be better quality in the processes of resources and they must be speeded up. We need more flex jobs closer to the labour market and we need to look at the role of the municipalities. A great deal needs to be done in the municipalities, so that we can sort out the differences that exist in the municipalities. Personally, I would also very much like to involve the citizens themselves more in the work that is coming. I can say that we are going to these conciliation meetings, which I look forward to very much, with openness and willingness, and we are convinced that we can actually do much better the work done in the early retirement and flexible job reform. I agree that things are not going fast enough for an impatient soul like Enhedslisten's question, but on the other hand we can see that we have already made significant changes to the reform of the last parliamentary assembly and that more is going to happen. That is why I would also like to thank you for this question, which is, as it were, a warm-up to the negotiations that will be in the conciliation circle, but I will not be negotiating in the Chamber today. I'll save that until we sit with the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154457	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154501	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for her speech. I don't expect that neither Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen or any other conciliation representative opens negotiations in this Chamber, but I do not think it is unreasonable to please the Enhedslisten, but in relation to the many people who follow in our discussions we say as follows: what does the rapporteur think is very important to have changed and adjusted, which is evidently a great will for which I believe? We must also be very happy to reveal what proposals we want to carry in ourselves. It is not, of course, the same as starting to negotiate and compromise in advance or anything at all. It is only reasonable consumer information, if I may say so. So I would therefore like to hear the rapporteur: what do the Radicals think is very, very important to change in the negotiations that are about to begin?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154601	Thank you. Well, I was just trying to lift the veil in my brief introduction before. I repeat that I am convinced that if more people in flex jobs get closer to the labour market, we will all be happy about it. This hasn't happened here. One of the stumbling blocks is that we need to have better quality in resource processes that need to be speeded up, and we need to look at the role of the municipalities, because we can see that there is a great difference in the offer you get in the municipalities. I quite agree with the evaluation, and I will follow this up closely, just as I am interested, as I have said, in the theme that was set before, namely how to involve citizens more in individual solutions. On the other hand, I can say that I am not particularly concerned with creating very specific rights which have been laid down by law. I would like estimates to be made in the municipalities where citizens are also involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154646	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154649	Thank you. The latter, of course, is an announcement, but also a rather boring announcement, because that is precisely what has proved to be the problem in the current legislation, namely that the municipalities have a very wide range of opportunities to estimate. That is why we see so different decisions, compared with how many early retirement pensions you grant and how many flex jobs you grant and what you do with the citizens at all. I guess that's a problem in the legislation. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to reflect on this again. Then I am aware that one year ago or more perhaps the Radicals actually drew up a concrete proposal on how to change the legislation on early retirement, and there was at least one sensible principle, and that was that if you could not be assigned to an ordinary job, you should actually be entitled to a senior early retirement pension. Is that something that the rapporteur wants to carry into the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154741	Thank you. Well there is a difference, because we put an estimate out in the municipality, and we generally believe that this should not be solved as radicals by making detailed rules at Christiansborg about precise service levels. I am, in fact, prepared that when we have municipalities and local government autonomy, and that is about people, we must put an estimate at the extreme and preferably where the citizen can be involved. I would like to stand by that. As far as the senior early retirement pension is concerned, that is to say the whole complex that we talked about in the debate that preceded it here, so yes, it is still a radical intention that we should of course make it easier to enter a senior early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154817	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154820	I would like to thank the rapporteur for the position that we want to involve the citizen more. But is it not necessary when you make a law that has been criticised for precisely being paternal and for precisely the fact that the estimate has been exaggerated even the minister said that it had been exaggerated and that there have actually been major errors in the system for the legislators to say that now we have to rectify it so that there is no doubt as to what we mean by this legislation? After all, we cannot be supposed to make laws that case officers and others do not quite understand what the point is, if we have now agreed that there should be some opportunities for people here and that it should not just be the system that is beating them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154907	Thank you. I am still not of the opinion that the solution to the fact that it has been administered in a way that we do not agree with, and we obviously do not agree with that, and I agree with the evaluation that has been made that improvements should be made is that we then take power away from the municipalities and into Christiansborg. I think we should go into dialogue and go into clinch and make some legislation to ensure that quality is higher out there, but not by taking power into this hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154937	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109154940	I agree with that, but it has to be the case that there is an equal relationship that a human being can feel like a human being in a society and not as a pawn in a system. That means knowing your rights. It doesn't help to say that we want to have a dialogue with you, but you have nothing to say just say your opinion, and I'll make sure you interpret it here. That is not a social liberal attitude. It is, however, to take man seriously and give man the opportunity to act and choose. And now that you have a system in which it is first and foremost the system that pushes people in a humiliating way and makes wrong conclusions, we must change on the basis which is the reason for it, namely this law, and then give people the right to choose and the right to say that there is an absolute limit to what a case worker can afford.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155033	Thank you. I think it's a game of words. I would, of course, like to see a social liberal solution as a social liberal. I am sure that Enhedslisten would like a non-social liberal solution. It is not usually a social liberal basis on which to work. What I am interested in is the solution to the problem we face, namely a reform that has not always worked as intended, and some people who get stuck, and we need to resolve this by means of legislation. As I said, I do not believe that the answer is to set up very fixed legal frameworks for the individual, because then it will be like a template or a table, and that is not the way I want to go either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155107	No one else has asked for the floor for short remarks. We are grateful to the radical rapporteur and finally welcome the very impatient gentleman. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155116	Over the years, I have moved hair totes out of the bottom of my hair in a mixture of rage and frustration that the municipalities treat their citizens as opponents. We amended the law slightly in May with the aim that the municipalities that could not find the right line in it are now being forced to treat their sick and vulnerable and vulnerable citizens in a more humane and respectful way. I guess that wasn't too much of a demand either. When we have been presented with the almost endless series of cases of disrespectful and inhumane treatment of sick citizens, I have often wondered what part of the body they think about in these municipalities. The only result I have achieved is that it has not always been the head. Instead of tripping, the municipalities must lend a helping hand to the citizens. SF is working for a rapid and radical change of the law, and the heading of SF will be to strengthen the citizen against the system. The sick must have more firm rights, they must be stronger in the face of the system. Pre-retirement or flex jobs can just go and become the life-saving wreath for a better life, and all citizens in Denmark have the right to be treated with both care and dignity. As a prelude to the negotiations that we are about to embark on, I have arranged a series of listening meetings around the country, and the conclusion of the meetings we have had so far is that too many places are getting people stuck. It is high time that the Folketing intervened against the national lottery that is taking place. Today, it is the postal code which clearly has a crucial role to play in the way the citizen is treated. Some municipalities treat their citizens with respect, other municipalities leave the citizen on the platform. I think that we should deal seriously with the six proposals we have received from the initiative called ValueReform. I think it's a good kick in. Moreover, it is also entirely in line with the title which the SF has for the revision of the law, namely to grant more rights to citizens. The sick, the vulnerable and the vulnerable need a clear law with a number of specific rights to which the municipalities must comply. We must stop the social policy approach and instead equip citizens with a number of legal requirements. People must be stronger in the face of the municipality, citizens must be stronger in the face of the system, we must remove the trip wires and instead give weak people a strong foundation to stand on. Is that too much to ask? No, I guess not. SF will propose some concrete things, such as: when the ability to work is less than 7 hours per week, the citizen must be able to choose between resource paths, flexible jobs or early retirement, and if the citizen is not clear within the five years allocated, citizens must be able to choose between rehabilitation, flexible jobs, resource cycles or early retirement. We believe that it is the citizen himself who should be able to apply for the development of resources and, moreover, be able to complain about the progress made. We believe that the conditions of employment in flexible jobs must always be agreed with the trade unions. We believe that it must again be possible to create flex jobs in the company where you work, and we envisage a number of time guarantees. In the health care sector, the concept of a guarantee of treatment is being worked out. I also believe that, in this context, we can work on it in a way that will also give citizens guarantees that things will happen within time limits so that they do not have to be sent again to new meetings where the papers have disappeared again. And next time they get a new caseworker, and the third time the municipal office has burned down. We need to put our citizens on the strongest possible footing. I think it was encouraging to hear Mette Frederiksen's comments at the Social Democratic Congress that now we really should tackle the nettle of this law. But I must also say to the Social Democratic Party that words, magic swings and soothing ointments are not enough. In particular, I call on the Social Democratic Party to make clear statements and to stand firm on the rights of the sick. Now we need to improve this law, which has so much on its conscience.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155611	There are requests for short remarks, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155615	Thank you, and thank you for a fire-good speech, where I agreed with every word. I can only wish, sir. Karsten Høngge good luck in the negotiations. I assume that SF is still part of the settlement and that as a result you are invited to those meetings. I also find it gratifying that Mr. Karsten Hønge is so concrete, compared to what it is for some things that need to be changed, and supports the six requirements. I have just one question, because I have noted that the SF is not a co-sponsor of this proposal for adoption which has been tabled. I would like to hear a little bit about why, because the others are conciliation parties behind the reform of early retirement, so one wonders why the SF is not here. Does this mean that SF will support the proposal for adoption made by Enhedslisten, Dansk Folkeparti and the Alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155722	The SF is still part of the conciliation circle and we have no intention of voting in favour of a proposal for the adoption of parties which, in this context, are completely outside the conciliation circle. SF is red voices working. We see ourselves as a party that wants to move things where it is going, and in this situation it is going on in the conciliation circle I wish Enhedslisten had the same view.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155745	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155747	We shall then have a little more time to discuss this. I'm a little puzzled by the fact that sir... Karsten Hønge then will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution we have tabled, for as Mr. Karsten Hønge has formulated his rapporteur's speech, but it is completely within the framework of the proposal for adoption that is also the six demands. It can be said that there is one missing, and I agree with Mr Van der Klaauw very much. Karsten Hønge in that we should have on the field. This is the question of guarantees for time limits in the proceedings. I fully agree with that, but apart from that, I simply do not understand why Mr. Karsten Hønge is not part of the other conciliation parties' proposals for adoption, and when he is not, why can he not then vote in favour of our proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155835	Yes, sir. Finn Sørensen quite well, otherwise I have so far completely overestimated Mr. Finn Sørensen's knowledge and ability to commit politically, so of course Mr. Finn Sørensen is pleased that we, as the conciliation party, are not voting in favour of a proposal for adoption aimed at the conciliation circle. I do not think that text is clear enough, sharp enough in relation to the challenges we face. I do not intend to vote against the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155903	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109155906	I am glad that the SF stands where they stand today, and I think that we should do as usual and work a little more dynamicly than the SF's rapporteur does at the moment. When the SF made the faggot to go into this settlement, which has now been planned down by the SF's rapporteur and rightly we were then a few who tried to warn and say that this is going all the way to Pomerania, and we were quite clearly told that we were quite wrong about that. That is why I believe that this allows for new cooperation and, in principle, I do not care who has committed himself to a settlement and who does not. I would like to hear: if Mrs Laura Lindahl wants to use her right of veto not to make it easier, that is. What she spent her time on here but harder for the people who get into this situation, is SF still gone to find in this settlement, or are there limits to where this is going to end?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160009	There it is again, as I said in part of my reply to Mr. Finn Sørensen: Oh, just Enhedslisten was there, because then Enhedslisten's representatives would be able to hear what my answer is to the conciliation parties. This is a debate that is taking place in a conciliation circle that the SF is loyal to, and the discussions, the disagreements that are, are not so strange. There are, of course, in all conciliation circles, including the very few conciliation circles that Enhedslisten has taken up to be a part of here in the Folketing. Even there are differences of opinion. You find out with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160036	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160038	I actually asked about the content, not how many conciliation circles the various parties are members of, because that is a little different. I asked: if Mrs Laura Lindahl insists that she will at least not make it easier, but dreams of making it harder for the sick, is it a path that the SF will continue to be part of, that is, the conciliation circle that could decide on such things? Because that's exactly the opposite of what Mr. Karsten Hønge has now criticised the reform for and thus planned down those positions. Isn't there a limit to when SF can stay in a conciliation circle when you look at the content?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160124	I can only say that the SF is part of this conciliation circle, and we believe that we should be red votes working. That's the way it is, sir. Christian Juhl knows that SF's voters cannot live on words alone, they can't live on 1 May speeches, they like to listen to them, but they can't live on them, and that means that we are the voices that work every single day to turn the wheel the right way, and I think we can do that better in It's true that the Liberal Alliance has a lot to deal with in all contexts, including in this conciliation circle, but that shouldn't prevent us from agreeing on this, and that is why we need to find improvements together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160157	Then no one else has any brief comments to make to Mr. Karsten Hønge. We are taking the last rapporteur in the rapporteur's line, Mr President. Erik Lund of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160209	Thank you so much. Again, I think it is very good that we can now have an open-minded discussion on the evaluation of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs that is now in place and that the Minister will be able to explain what initiatives the Minister will take on the basis of the evaluation. The reform of early retirement and flexible jobs is a major reform on which it is always good to have a debate. Part of the evaluation, which deals with the rules on when citizens can be granted early retirement and when citizens should be in the course of resource development, was brought forward, and the partial evaluation pointed out that there were different practices in this area in some municipalities, and now I say some municipalities because I heard Mr. Karsten Hønge before, and it's not just Mr. Hønge. Karsten Hønge, who does it. It often happens in the Folketing that you cut the municipalities over one foot and say that the municipalities do... Karsten Hønge also corrected it a little later and said that some municipalities treat citizens with respect, and thank you for that. However, it is the case that some municipalities interpret the rules more strictly than others and also tighter than the intentions were with the political agreement of 2012. For this reason, the conciliation circle took the initiative to clarify the rules for granting early retirement and for taking up resources. This means that the area is now better managed so that citizens are no longer so often caught up in the system. The new rules have made it clear that a process of resource development is only when it is realistic that the citizen can develop his or her ability to work in a process of resource development. The Ankestyrelsen has already repealed two decisions in principle and will later this year withdraw its new practice in this field, which is a strong signal to the municipalities that a different practice should be adopted than in the past. So we have already achieved what we in the conciliation circle set out to do in the reform: that most people will have the opportunity to develop their ability to work and become part of the labour market. It was important but where those citizens who do not have the prospect of ever becoming part of the labour market will also be granted an early retirement pension. The evaluation of the reform shows that very much works well, but it also shows that we are not entirely in the end, which is why we in the conciliation circle are already discussing the evaluation and will continue our discussions to ensure that we are fully in the end. If it turns out that there is a need for adjustments, then of course we need to make some adjustments, but let us not make hasty solutions, because that is something we are discussing in the conciliation circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160434	It doesn't seem to have triggered any questions. Thank you, sir. Erik Lund, and so it is time for the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160448	Thank you. Thank you for one, I think, good and also nuanced debate on this theme. It comes as no surprise that this issue is still filling up and has to be filled in a political debate. With such a great reform and with so many people affected by a new early retirement and flexible job reform, it also requires us to follow it closely, and I would like to give the clear signal today to the parties in this Parliament that I expect us to do so in the future too. We must always follow this discussion and also dare, both in consultation, but also in question debates, to look at how developments are. I believe, of course, that with the amendment we have made, we have now started the first part of an evaluation which follows up some of the challenges we have seen. Then I would also like to state today that it is my expectation that at the beginning of the new year we will be through the evaluation we have now initiated in the conciliation circle. That will then mean that we can then deal with possible legislation, and I have no doubt that that will be the result of what we are now discussing. This gives so much opportunity to discuss later the initiatives we may decide in the political conciliation circle, and we will then not conclude on that today. But thank you for a really good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160632	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160635	Thank you. Yes, I would like to do so, and I think I should like to take some time after the Minister has been there to say something about that. Could the Minister be a little more specific? I know that a debate can drag on and things, but what is the Minister's ambition? For at the beginning of the new year can be and has sometimes been a very broad concept. So what's closer to that? What exactly is the timetable envisaged by the Minister? Then it's possible I haven't listened in class. I understand that five thematic meetings will be held in the conciliation circle. Can the Minister reveal the title of each of these five meetings?
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160720	The last thing Mr. Finn Sørensen said he wasn't being reported. That, sir. Finn Sørensen just wanted it to be repeated, so sir. Finn Sørensen could hear it. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160731	That's where I can tell you, sir. Finn Sørensen's hearing me knows nothing is wrong, because the five themes have not been discussed here today. I mentioned a few of them. I think the best thing might be to send them to the parties that are not involved, i.e. those who sit on the Employment Committee, too, about how the evaluation is carried out, including what kind of time aspect it is. But I know so well what my goal is and when the beginning of 2019 is, after all, in my world, and that means that I hope that we will be able to conclude on the evaluation in February.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160802	Sir. Finn Sørensen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160804	Thank you to the Minister for that reply and also for the undertaking that you would like to transmit in writing what the plan is for it. I appreciate that, and the Minister can do so even more. If you need some advice in the course of the negotiations, we will be happy to do so, and I am sure that the other two parties that are not in the conciliation circle will also be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160830	Mr. Finn Sørensen also said that I always think on a case-by-case basis. Because I actually think in a lot of ways, sir. Finn Sørensen as a good second opinion for the way to make politics. So sometimes I use mr. Finn Sørensen for constructive counterplay to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160847	No one else has asked to speak, so we thank the Minister. We can then turn to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109160900	Thank you, and we are, of course, happy to continue to be abused for constructive counter-play for the government's policy development. I think that is very much needed. I just want to thank you for a good debate. In fact, I agree with the Minister. Now we've been discussing this since 2013. That was one of my first major tasks, I would say, at the time as social rapporteur to engage me in this, and it was not nice. For I saw a total rejection by the conciliation parties and by the then Minister for Employment when we pointed out the many pitfalls and possible negative effects of the proposal which later became the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. It has been upside down, I must say, and many times also a little despairing, because at the same time a lot of people were approached who did not know their good advice when they read the presentation that Mrs Mette Frederiksen made, and it only got worse when they saw the final adoption of the law. I have to say that I would like to welcome the fact that the climate of debate surrounding this has changed. After all, there has quietly become more responsive to criticisms of the obvious mistakes and weaknesses that have been made in that reform, in our view, all the way through. And I would like to thank the many organisations outside the Folketing who have been involved in this debate from the outset, the many disability organisations and trade unions who warned and criticised and who have continued in the discussion from the outset. For all of this shows that if we persist, it is also possible to change the climate of debate, and that is the first condition for making any changes at all for the benefit of the people concerned. That is why I am glad that we have a completely different tone about this than we had when we discussed it with the retirement age. But I wonder if it is not going to be the same as the legislation one had there is printed in reality. For that is what has happened here: the reform has been printed in reality with the result that it did not pass the test, and now we are in an exciting process of how we can improve it. I hope, of course, for the best. I am a little worried about the answers, in particular, from the Chair of the Left. Hans Andersen and Mrs Laura Lindahl, but we must press for the best we can from the position we have. I would like to say a few more words about these demands from these organisations, which the conciliation parties can then take along or not. First of all, there is the proposal that if the ability to work is reduced to 7 hours or less, the citizen should be free to choose between early retirement, resource progression or flexible jobs. What is the point of allowing citizens to choose freely? This is about protecting the most vulnerable. After all, they are the ones who have been hit so hard by this reform, and if we do not give them such an instrument, I fear that they will continue to suffer the wretched fate that many of them have suffered with the rest of the law. Then there are the other demands, and I think that actually gives itself something like that. They're very cashy. They are about having proper support, they are about having the right to take your union along with you to negotiate as you did before this reform was made. I did not get anything added which I was very pleased to Mr. Karsten Hønge raised the issue of stricter time limits, or rather tough ones. It is only when you start an early retirement case that the law has always allowed a period of time for its completion. But the whole long, dark limbo, I would call it that which lies from the moment you go down to the municipality and say that you cannot work because of illness, chronic suffering, whatver, and then that there is clarification of the citizen, is after all a hell that has arisen there, which among other things. As a result, people are on cash benefits for years, sick people and people with disabilities. It is part of this discussion that we will have some clear time limits in the proceedings and that we will have something that the social workers call a clarification guarantee, which I know the FOA is working with, that is, that there will have to be a maximum limit on how long it must take before a sick cash aid recipient has been clarified in relation to how he or she is going to move forward in his or her life. I think that is extremely important. I know that the FOA has the same thoughts, and fortunately also several parties in the Folketing. I look forward to the further progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109161415	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned earlier, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 13 November 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181109161434	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 13 November 2018, at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
