ParlaMint-DK_20181024100016	The meeting is open. There are today the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 74 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on the administration of justice and the Law on court fees. Bill No. L 75 (Proposal for a law amending the law on safety at certain sporting events. Employment Minister (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill No. L 76 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment, Act on Active Social Policy, Law on Municipal Equalisation and General Grants to Municipalities and Law on Organisation and Support for Employment, etc.) Bill No. L 77 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Social Policy and various other laws. Søren Søndergaard (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Andreas Steenberg (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF): Request no. F 12 (What can the Minister say about the integrational and educational consequences of the amendment to the Aliens Act introduced by the adoption of Bill No. L 87 (the year 2015-16), which involved an increased employment requirement, so that training is no longer included in the calculation of the right to permanent residence permit, including whether the government will consider again including training in the calculation with a view to encouraging more refugees and immigrants to take an education for the benefit of themselves and of Danish society?). Søren Søndergaard (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Andreas Steenberg (RV): Request no. F 13 (What considerations does it give the government reason to refer very often in the media to cases in which Danish and foreign married couples who do not have the prospect of being public to burden are cut off from living together in Denmark, and cases where Danish-speaking children who are well integrated into the Danish primary school are refused to live in Denmark with their foreign mother or father and their Danish stepmother or stepfather on the grounds that there is no prospect of successful integration into Denmark?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Josephine Fock (ALT) has informed me that she is resigning as a member of the Folketing per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024100203	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024100225	Thank you. The bill here is a step in the right direction towards reducing the black economy in the form of undeclared work and fucking with VAT and tax on the labour market. I also think that this is a good example of how the Folketing can become more active in policy development and how the increased secretariat resources that we have been allocated can be used, because it is, after all, a thorough parliamentary committee work carried out in the Committee on Taxation, which has led to a number of recommendations to deal with the problems in this area and thus to reduce the loss of tax revenue and social dumping in the labour market that comes with various forms of undeclared work. However, the trees do not grow into the sky, and there were also a lot fewer measures that the government liked than the committee's report said when the political negotiations began. Nevertheless, there is a legislative proposal now before us, and the government has also been encouraged in this area to implement policy, perhaps it itself had not arrived at without a little help from the Folketing and a majority here. In the draft law there are a few different measures that I would like to discuss in more detail. Tax administrations and municipalities can today impose the use of logbooks on companies where it is considered necessary to keep an eye on what kind of employees are there and how they are paid, etc. There is often the problem here that when the tax authorities are out to check at a workplace, it is strangely enough always the first working day for the employee they encounter, where the papers and conditions are not in order. There the bill proposes to make the logbook digital in order to make it easier to use for all parties, and thus to impose a penalty for failing to comply with a requirement to have a logbook of this kind. If there are problems with the settlement of A-tax, where the company must contain A-tax and forward it to the tax authorities, or not, then tax authorities will also be able to impose on companies the use of a private pay agency, so as to ensure that this matter is dealt with. It is also the case that, if the bill is adopted, the tax administration must be able, on request, to disclose information as to whether an enterprise is registered as an employer and is therefore obliged to contain A tax etc. The argument for this is that it can help to avoid chain fraud, in that companies that are really trying and doing what they can to ensure that the contractors with whom they work and subcontractors with whom they work have clean flour in the bag behave as real companies and can therefore be expected to comply with tax rules, etc. The limit for co-responsibility liability is also reduced from DKK 10,000. for 8,000 kroner. including VAT. At the same time, it is possible to avoid this obligation to attach. In any case, you can just pay electronically and leave a trail and there's no liability for this. However, there will also be an opportunity to keep an invoice that complies with the invoice requirements. The fact that we have these rules works preventively. At any rate, it is the intention of them to make people aware that in cash purchases there is a risk that those you trade with will not pay the VAT and tax they have to pay. The bill will contribute to a reduction in tax losses in this area. However, the Treasury won't say how much. All in all, we think this is a good legislative proposal, but it cannot be left alone, nor can it be done in this debate, now that we are discussing the subject in the Parliamentary Assembly. So I think it would be right to make some more general comments on the situation in this area. You can see from the figures coming from the Rockwool Foundation that it is actually going the right way in relation to black work in Denmark. Unfortunately, we can also look at the figures for the way in which SKAT's control in this area is proceeding, that the risk of discovery of undeclared work has fallen from 43%. At 31 per cent, the rate of increase was approximately 31 per cent. Over the past few years. So we're still losing billions of dollars every year as a society on these problems. Nevertheless, the government has had to be dragged to the trough to make just these actions from the Tax Committee's report. And although it was agreed in the same political agreement that in the spring we should identify the sectors to be required to use an electronic payment solution, there is still no clarification on that. And the leaves have begun to fall off the trees, and the supermarkets have begun to play in Christmas music, but there is still no clarification. I also think it is important to say that the initiatives here must not result in less control on the site, in the kiosks and in the restaurants. A digital logbook cannot replace presence at work with control and guidance. We also believe that there is a need for permanent action against social dumping. It is important for employees that there should be no pressure on pay and working conditions, and at the same time it is actually a good business, the figures from the tax minister himself show. At the same time, it must be said that there is a need to tighten up enforcement and the collection of fines imposed on companies. I also think there is a need for the tax minister to drop his misunderstood restriction on the work of the authorities when it comes to controlling construction sites on privately owned land. There was no one in the industry who wanted the deterioration of SKAT's opportunities. No one had a problem with the possibility before. Now it just happens that for private buildings on privately owned land, control is relaxed and it is not good for either the working environment or tax payments. We still have problems regarding the lack of control over the use of illegal workers and the whole question of the lack of employment contracts from the first day. Finally, there is a question of the purely moral or mental processing of citizens. Why are we really doing so little in Denmark compared to what has been done in the past? So, to sum up, I would say that I think there is much more to be done in helping to solve the bigger problem of undeclared work and social dumping than what is just in the legislative proposal. However, as always, we are ready to take steps in the right direction, and then we will hopefully have to work further with a new majority after the next elections and see how far we can go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024100824	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. There is no one who would like a brief comment, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024100839	Thank you. In fact, I think it is worth using some of the introductory remarks on the background to this bill, because it was actually about the fact that after the elections there was a disagreement as to whether SKAT had to go on private grounds to control undeclared work. Of course, there was some disagreement about this, and it ended up being abolished. But the positive thing is that while we often spend a lot of gunpowder on disagreeing in here, at this point we have used the opportunity to turn it to look at what we saw instead of being able to agree on and focus on it instead. That is why we set up what is called a parliamentary working group in the Committee on Taxation, where we looked instead at what challenges we could help solve together and what methods we could use. In fact, we ended up getting smarter together, you might say, by diving into different actions. We had a hearing, we had people inside and talked to us on the committee, had abroad trips and other things. It was actually a really positive experience to be part of it. It was also positive because we put policy development back to the Folketing, where it is taking place today in the ministries. The working group ended up with a good report in which all parties were largely involved in all initiatives. It was challenging for a few individuals, and fair enough, we are still away different parties. And later it ended up with an agreement in the Treasury, which is reflected in the bill here and which is part of the initiatives. In fact, I think it is a very positive story about why we are standing here today with a proposal that I believe will be widely supported by all parties. As I said, the proposal contains the elements of the agreement, among others. Jesper Petersen has also said something about wage management, where there is a challenge with some companies that do not contain the A-tax they should. Therefore, they can now be required to use a pay management agency to ensure that they manage that part after all. It is also to protect employees because there have been examples of a sudden request from SKAT that one lacked to pay tax on the income one had had but that one might not have had a payroll on, so one has not been able to prove that one should have actually done so. So it is both to create equal competition, less undeclared work, but also to protect the employees who may not have gotten the payrolls or other things they should have. There is also a good proposal in the bill for a digital logbook. There are logbooks today that can be imposed on industries to use, but now there will be the possibility that it can be done digitally, making it more flexible both for companies, but more importantly, for the authorities too, so that they can control it more easily. It also allows it to be spread to other sectors, for example: the transport industry, where for example: can be difficult to document or check whether their logs are now completed. And it's gonna be easier with this initiative. As mentioned by the previous rapporteur, there is also an initiative on liability for the services you pay. In the past, there has been an arrangement that if you had bought a benefit for more than DKK 10,000, you could be jointly and severally liable if the company did not pay its taxes and taxes. It has been reduced to DKK 8,000, but with an important addition compared to the previous one, that you can now get rid of that liability if you are in good faith after all and have kept an invoice that meets the general requirements of an invoice, and that shows that you have actually been able to be in good faith that you have paid what you should. In fact, we think this is a good addition to legal certainty for the citizens. I would also like to mention one of the things from the agreement we made, which is certainly not part of this bill, but will come later. However, I think that this is quite a significant step, which is why I look forward to having it dealt with later. And that is that we now have the opportunity to impose on certain industries the use of a digital cash register. We know from among other things. Sweden, which has it Norway is also in the process of having a tremendous effect there. When it was introduced in Sweden, it was immediately given 15 billion. kr. in the box by introducing it, which, of course, was money that did not smoke under the table and went to wages that were not paid tax on. I don't know if it's going to be 15 billion. kr. In Denmark, however, this is certainly an initiative which, in terms of revenue, will also be able to give a great deal of money, but at the same time also ensure equal competition. For it goes without saying that there is a company that may sell candy it may be anything else and does not pay taxes and taxes on wages, but then it is clear that they can quickly outperform the company that is located on the same street and that is doing what it is supposed to do. So this is an initiative that I expect a great deal of when it is introduced in a few years' time in Denmark. In conclusion, I would like to thank all colleagues in the Committee on Taxation. As I started by saying, I think that this has been an incredibly positive development that we have been through. It started with a working group and an agreement in the Ministry of Taxation, where we also had a good discussion, both with the tax minister and with the officials, and I really just hope that this can be something that we can follow up on later, perhaps in other areas. Because I think it has been an incredibly good process, which has ended with a good deal and now also a very good bill. And with those words, I have to say that the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024101331	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024101335	I believe that, if we have listened to the rapporteur's speeches, we are looking at it quite equally and at the legislative proposal and also at the background and opportunities to move forward. There are some questions here about social dumping, which is also filling something, because at the same time, as we are dealing with this bill, there are also negotiations on the Finance Act, and there are not some that the government, it seems, is interested in having to make a broad agreement on. However, one of the issues on which we have been very concerned is that we are getting a permanent allocation for the social dumping effort, so that this is not something we are going to do every year again, but that there is therefore a permanent appropriation. I would just like to ask the Danish People's Party, which has a key role to play in these negotiations, if that is not something we could agree to have, because that is, of course, reducing the pressure on employees on the labour market, and it has also simply proved to be a good business for the Treasury. Unfortunately, there are so many cases where there is no order.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024101440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024101441	Yes, I can confirm that. I think it is a pity that we are giving temporary appropriations, typically for a four-year period, because we have some skills built up among staff who, when the appropriations are running out, naturally sit and think: do I have my work in one year's time? And then you might start looking for other pastures. So you lose some competence. Of course, you also lose something in relation to the control pressure, because it may be difficult to maintain focus if you constantly have to think about whether you are now getting the new appropriation. The area in question by the rapporteur is not, of course, an area which can be said to have been resolved. Because then it was a little different, that is, if we could see that there was no problem. There could have been some EU regulation or other legislation from the Folketing, which had made it unnecessary to do so anymore. But the need is still gone. So I agree that it would be very beneficial to try to make permanent appropriations in this area, but also in other areas of tax control, where it does not seem that the problem has been resolved in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024101540	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær and goes to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024101549	Thank you for that, President. It is a pleasure to be here today, and it has to be said that the background to this bill, which has been mentioned, is a little different than usual. Because in the Committee on Taxation we chose to set up a working group with the participation of all parties. The participants were among others: from the Social Democratic Party of Jeppe Bruus, who is not currently in the Folketing but who was President at the time, and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær was Vice-President. I myself and the majority of the rapporteurs who are here also took part in the work. It was a work in which we agreed that we would jointly try to find the things we could agree on, and one might actually miss it a little, especially in the run-up to a parliamentary election where everything goes on the high nails and we stand and fight and kives. There one might well miss the cooperation that we actually started with right after the last parliamentary elections. In fact, this is the first time in the Committee on Taxation that we have done such a committee work which has resulted in a report which then becomes a legislative proposal. I would say that it is not the easiest thing to do when you are a government party, but we, the Left, chose to take part in this work because we thought it was a good parliamentary custom, which I hope we can maintain forward-looking, regardless of which party has the power of government. I also think that it is necessary to sign off on the fact that we have actually got a bill out of it. Because it's not the easiest thing to do when you're in government, just to act that way. It is also about wanting a good parliamentary custom and wanting to listen to the Folketing, and this is an expression of that. When I'm starting with that, I'm gonna say this is all about black work, and black work is when people cheat us all. It is about tax morality, and it is about the fact that you also pay taxes on the things you order at home to the home, and it is very important that we do not cheat each other for tax money. I am in favour of tax relief, but not of the kind you grant yourself. These must be the kind of people we agree to do on the part of society. But these are not the kind of people you just grant yourself, and that is why I think we should take tough action against undeclared work, and that is what we are doing with this bill. Several of the rapporteurs have already mentioned this, but I should like to mention some of it now. Among other things, the tax administration will in future be able to impose on companies that do not contain, report or pay A tax to use a provider of wage management services. It is simply because we can see that there are some who are generally conspiring with it, and then it must be a sanction option. So these are some of the things that are going to help. We also set a limit of 10,000 kroner. for when a buyer might be liable for the supplier's possible non-payment of tax and VAT, and it is proposed that we lower the limit from DKK 10,000 to DKK 8,000. including VAT. It is, of course, a way of ensuring that we have a little better control over what the money is being spent on, that we can follow the money and have more tax control over things. So all in all, there are a great many different initiatives, and I do not want to outline them all, because we have all done so, so it will just be a repeat. I think it is positive that we come up with a legislative proposal which, on the one hand, implements our parliamentary work and, on the other hand, does away with undeclared work as far as possible, and I hope that we can do a lot of that with this. The Left, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024101901	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024101904	Thank you. Well, I can actually very much agree with many of the considerations about the very work that is behind this. I also think it is very positive and good that we can implement this law now. When that happens, it is because there is also agreement that there is a problem here. One of the things that has come out lately is that the risk of detection seems to the companies operating out there to have been significantly reduced. At the same time, the government has, and maybe it is part of the context, impaired the possibility for the tax administration to control construction sites on privately owned land. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to consider whether, now that we are taking this problem fairly seriously, it is not now that we need to reconsider whether it was a very wise decision to give the tax administration less scope to carry out checks on construction sites on privately owned land • because this has meant that, in the context of the joint efforts of the authorities, which are in the form of police, labour inspectorates and tax services, we must avoid the places where the tax administration cannot come along, and then there is, like greater freedom not to play by the rules in those construction sites.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102019	So, I think we should be blind not to see that the Danes' confidence in the tax administration has suffered a break, and I think it has done so on the basis of all the different cases that the tax administration has been through with the profit tax case, with recoveries that have not worked. It is extremely regrettable, and that is why it is important that we get it right, and that is why we invest as heavily in the tax administration as we do now when we are about to invest 12 billion. kr. extra in the IRS. It is necessary, and it is also necessary, to show the Danes that there is a consequence if you do not honour your obligations and pay your taxes, because it is there, and the risk of being discovered is considerably greater now than it has been for a long time, that is, because we have invested so heavily in the tax administration. I also think it is positive that we can see that so many legal proceedings have been brought in connection with the profit tax case. So we're actually stalking those who're trying to cheat us. And it also shows something in terms of tax morality, that is, that it is not okay for people to cheat us and that we are coming after them. That's what I'm talking about. However, I do not believe that the rapporteur's proposal is the solution to the problem. I think it is a general problem of mistrust of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102123	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102124	I do not think the rapporteur is really answering the question, because it goes very specifically to the fact that the government has reduced the tax administration's ability to carry out checks on undeclared work and social dumping at construction sites on privately owned land, in relation to buildings for private use. One can only look at the answers given by the Minister himself that this means that, in the context of the joint authority's efforts, that possibility is weakened with regard to the land. Nobody in the business asked for that procedure. Neither employees nor employers were interested in the government making the deterioration in tax control options. When you ask the companies themselves, do they think that the risk of discovery is lower and, at the same time, it actually gives quite a lot of money where social dumping is controlled, so should we not also do so in these cases? Why is it that the Left doesn't want to be a part of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102224	I am well aware that the Social Democratic Party would like to allow people to wade into people's private property. We basically believe that those who suffer are the ones who own the land; it is not the craftsmen on it. I mean, there's private property, and you have to respect that. And I do not believe that this is what makes companies not feel that there is the same risk of not being discovered by the tax administration. I think this is because they have experienced that recovery does not work and therefore think: if I do not pay my bills, nobody is coming for me. So I do not think there is any reason to break with private property because people have a lack of confidence in the tax administration. This is because the IRS has been failing for a number of years, and that is what we are correcting. Everyone is working hard to rectify this, and it is important that we get this right, because of course you have to be able to trust the tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102305	Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. There are no further brief comments, and I would like to welcome Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten, the red-green. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102326	Thank you. Following on from what previous rapporteurs have said: it is true that we have had a parliamentary working group within the Committee on Taxation. Moreover, it is a model that could be looked at and worked on much more, in other words to make legislative power a more central player in the development of new policies. At least that's something we want to work for in the Enhedslisten. We're happy with this deal, too. You could have gone further. There is also a consultation response from the LO, which points to some of the places where you could tighten the screw further. I would then like to make it clear from the platform that this is something that we will clearly be prepared to take a positive view of, because it must of course be the case that both companies and citizens in our country pay their taxes. This is the basis for the funding of our welfare societies. Something similar, of course, is that we are shutting down all the scandals and frauds that we are unfortunately witnessing and have been witnessing for some time. It is in connection with the destruction of what was previously called SKAT, which has been spared in pieces by successive governments since 2005. This is also an important issue. But this about undeclared work is also a major issue, even though it amounts to less than DKK billion in dollars than there is with the tax on dividends, the fraud with negative VAT, a collapsing recovery system and some of the other things that pose major challenges and problems in our society today. The Enhedslisten, of course, supports this bill. It is the expiry of an agreement made by all parties in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102505	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102518	Thank you for that, President. This bill translates parts of the agreement, which is called "Strengthened action against undeclared work," which all parties entered into in September 2017. The extent of undeclared work in Denmark is not increasing, it is decreasing, and therefore it has also been important that new initiatives did not impose unnecessary costs and burdens on citizens or businesses. This bill provides for the possibility for the tax authorities to require a company to use a provider of wage management services and to require a company to keep a digital logbook so that the authorities can better monitor who is employed in the company. The limit on when a buyer of a service can be liable for the seller's non-tax payment is reduced from DKK 10,000. for 8,000 kroner. If you can present a valid invoice, you don't have to stick, and that's only fair. The draft law also provides for the possibility of examining whether an undertaking is registered as an A-tax holding company. This should help other companies to better check whether the company with which they contract pays the tax as it should. Finally, I would like to point out that the best protection against undeclared work is lower taxes. If a craftsman needs 10,000 kroner. by hand after tax for a job, the buyer of the service today must earn at least DKK 40,000. Before taxes. The rest goes to taxes and taxes. It goes without saying that such a high tax payment reduces trade between people, and it also creates an incentive for some to drop tax payments to get work done, for example. In their home. Of course, we cannot do that, but it cannot be surprising that such a high tax payment creates an incentive. So the best initiative to counteract undeclared work would be to reduce the absurdly high taxation in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102743	You're welcome, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no brief comments, and then the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024102750	I will vote in favour of what my fellow rapporteurs have said in relation to the good preparatory work that has preceded this bill. In the alternative, we had just arrived in the Folketing when this working party was set up in the Committee on Taxation in a cross-political way and, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, it was the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party that took the lead, but the government was also involved and tried to accommodate the desire to make some of it a reality. Today some of this becomes a reality, even though it is probably difficult when you sit in government. I thought it was a bit of an alternative thing to go in and work in this way in the Folketing, and so is, because we would like to have the cross-party where we listen to the common sense of each other, but it is amazing that it is not only we who have invented the deep plate, in that it is already that way. In the alternative, we often talk about a new political culture and how we would like to work in the Folketing in general, and that we should remember to promote understanding and perhaps get the intrigues dampened a little once in a while, and at least some other parties have taken the lead in this matter, and I actually think that happens very often in here. But it does not mean that we should not continue to conjure up the desire and reason for us to do it any more. So, in general, full support for the process and just as much support for the desire to reduce undeclared work. For the vast majority, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur mentioned earlier, it is almost a daily assessment whether you should choose to pay your taxes when you get home work done or where it might be because you might think that the tax burden is too high or that the state is sloppy with our money or that we are throwing too many away in taxes. That assessment is just not up to the individual, because you have to pay your taxes, and that is why it is also our job as politicians to promote the joy of our tax system. That's why it's no good for us to be thundering against the SKAT all the time. In these weeks, in these years, we see how to fiddle with the treasure at a much, much higher level elsewhere in society, and there you can sometimes ask a little rhetorical: can it really be true that you have to be so vicious when someone gets cleaning at home for a small amount of money, or when someone gets children cared for by some young people or whatever. Discussions about where our petty threshold is were also held in committee, and the discussions I think are really, really interesting, because if we are to continue to have full confidence in the usefulness of paying taxes, and that is what we are doing, because otherwise we will not be able to maintain the society we have today, then we will also have to look at when it is right and fair whether there are any limits where we can determine whether anything is a small limit and whether something is going to be a slip. Having said all that, it must be said that as long as we from the political level help to stigmatise the state, the tax administration is slashing the public, compared to the fact that these are places where people's money is abused or abuse the trust we have given and I am not saying that it is something that happens consistently or everywhere, but that happens often enough we help to promote the group of people in society that we hear about in the financial world in these weeks actually have such a small global mini-society where you have the state as the main devil symbol. It goes all the way back to Ayn Rand, the thinker of whom I have to say that no matter how liberal I may have inside my body, it's hard to listen to that woman so many years ago without getting a little shivering in my body. And I would just like to say that there we have a huge responsibility when we stand here on the platform and when we come up with political proposals. We should not support a tale that taxes and states are in particular the Danish one, for I can, as well as being the best target for this in relation to so many other countries, is a problem and that one should privatise instead of employing skilled employees in the public sector, because no, it is not. Sometimes it makes great sense, sometimes it doesn't. So a group of really, really talented and intelligent people have been created around the world who can move around on very, very large amounts of money that make this black work into peppers, unless you sum it all up, but it's pepper nuts for the individual citizen in terms of summer homes or cleaning. It is becoming harder and harder to maintain that morality and trust at home in Denmark as long as we give free rein to the major structural problems that there are in terms of speculation about cheating the tax administration, cheating states around the world. Fortunately, we all agree on this at home in Denmark when the crisis is scratching and the problems are raging, as we see in DR's fantastic programmes about it, and when journalists in the free media support that something must be done about it now. But imagine if we could help it a little along the way and support it a little. Among other things: Enhedslisten and probably also many other parties in here, SF I know have also been active in that field, for many years have been out criticizing the banking system for how it works. I am a banker's son, and my mother is also educated in a bank, I have been a coward myself, and my older brother has probably worked at Jyske Bank too, because we have almost all worked in Silkeborg. So I have nothing against the banks, but it is a problem that it is so dangerous to talk about how the banks work so that you do not dare to touch them until it is everywhere so that you cannot avoid it. So, yes to the proposal for less undeclared work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103254	Thank you. It gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103257	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur's speech was not so much about the specific legislative proposal we are discussing today, but I had to take the floor now, because we are talking about a documentary on Denmark's Radio, where Ayn Rand is mentioned, and now the rapporteur also mentions Ayn Rand here on Parliament's platform. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, who I assume has read Ayn Rand, to explain what she might think of cheating on taxes, because, as I understood the rapporteur, if you had read her, there would have to be evidence to say that she thought it was quite okay for you to cheat. Has the rapporteur read Ayn Rand?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103343	Before we continue, I would like to appeal to us to try to get closer to the real issue, namely Bill No. L 25 (Joachim B. Olsen Well then the rapporteur must also do so). The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103352	It's fine. I think it's perfectly reasonable that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen asks. I have to say that with Ayn Rand it is just like with almost everything else that I have read through time, which has not been fictional or has been read completely of their own free will, because I thought it was so interesting: At the university I read most summaries, unless the book was really good, and I do so here in the Danish Parliament. I've only read summaries and headlines about Ayn Rand. I am not saying that she thinks that undeclared work is good, so it may be that the rapporteur attaches it to me, but what I am saying is that it is a problem that Ayn Rand ^ among others, as I have read and understood the summaries that I have read, only cares about self-interest and does not believe in the community. That's how I put Ayn Rand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103431	It is then a completely wrong interpretation that she would certainly not agree with herself. I just think it is problematic in principle when you just eat raw what comes from some documentary on Denmark's Radio, which completely misinterprets a writer and, by the way, an entire ideology. Ayn Rand grew up in the Soviet Union, which is why she has a very strained relationship with the state. I think that's very natural, but to mix it into some debate that there are some who cheat with the tax on dividends and all sorts of other things is completely on the moon and the expression of an intellectual laziness, which to me is quite inconceivable and regrettable to witness.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103513	I think that the intellectual wit versus laziness begins somewhere by recognizing what you know and what you don't know. I am quite open about what I know and Ayn Rand I do not know very well, but I know that it is problematic if you are to withdraw the truth from the politicians, if you are to withdraw from the politicians, that our money system can be quite problematic. There, I find that DR among others is just a small piece of the big game that is good at lifting the veil on how the financial world can also work. I believe in the market in many respects, but we must come up with solutions that outperform the market because we simply think of something better. Ayn Rand has probably said many talented things, but she has also said many things that are not very gifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103552	Thank you very much, sir. René Gade from the Alternative. There are no more brief comments, and I therefore welcome Mr. Andrea Steenberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103600	Thank you. Now I shall try not to be guilty of intellectual laziness or to be accused of it at least. I think that no matter what party you represent, you sit and look at this fictional pile of money that black work brings, and you think that you could have spent it, whether you want to lighten the tax or spend it on welfare or whatever you want. That is why it is also gratifying, as among other things. Mr. Jesper Petersen said that studies show that the extent of undeclared work is becoming smaller and smaller. But it is also gratifying that we in the Danish Parliament have been able to sit together in committee and try to find out how we could do even more to send out a signal to the citizens that it is not okay and that we are in fact cheating everyone else, and in principle if we want it to be able to pay less in tax if we just paid the tax that had been decided in here. I would like to welcome this and congratulate the colleagues who were involved in it, because I was not involved in it myself; it was before I became rapporteur. I think that is good work and it shows that we in the Danish Parliament can work together on something that we all agree on, even though we disagree on what we would use the extra tax revenue for if we could manage to reduce the amount of undeclared work even more. I would like to mention two measures in this legislative package which I believe will have an effect. One is the fact that, as a sanction, a company can be required to have what can be called an electronic cash register. Basically, it is for the company to make sure that it records what payments and payments are made so that the tax administration can control it. It has been important to us that it was a sanction and not something that everyone had to do, otherwise all companies, all small part-time companies or people who just have a CVR number, some burdens, even if they do not cheat in taxes. So we think it would be a good idea for it to be a sanction against those who are suspected under reasonable suspicion or those who have cheated. I also agree with Mr. Jesper Petersen, when he says that we should not stop physical control, for example. to show up at the kiosk or whatever it may be. We should not make the mistake we made earlier and believe that an IT system can detect something, and then do not have employees who also control. The second thing that I think may have the greatest effect and the reason I say is that we can't measure what works because it's cheating, which of course isn't being taken out, is that you can now be punished as a citizen if you've hired someone who does black work. Now it is an amount from DKK 8,000. and over instead of 10,000 kroner. So we are also sending out a very clear signal to those citizens who, in many cases, know very well that they are hiring a company that is doing undeclared work. So now we are sending the signal from a united parliament that one can be punished for it on a slightly larger scale than in the past. I think that is the strongest thing we can do, because if we are really going to get rid of undeclared work, we have to change culture and convince the public that it is wrong because we are cheating everyone else and, as a matter of fact, ourselves too, when you hire a company that does black work. With those words, I can tell you that, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103943	Thank you very much, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024103957	Now it is the President who decides up here on the Chair, but I think it was developing into a rather exciting debate about Ayn Rand, and the world trembled and so on. In fact, I have read the book and I now share the opinion of the rapporteur of the alternative. But back to the bill. As several of my colleagues have said, it is, of course, the result of a rather unusual but very positive process, in which the Committee on Taxation has largely taken ownership of it and where we have said across the parties that this is a problem that we would like to resolve from a balanced approach that we should not impose a lot of unreasonable burdens on people, but that there should be the control and efficiency that is necessary. For cheating undermines the glue that has to bind society together... whether it's black work or whether it's when huge banks, financiers, lawyers, audit firms cheat the community, it's subversive to ultimately our democracy. It can then be said that it is really, really positive that the tax gap in undeclared work has decreased, that the number of hours spent on undeclared work has fallen, and not least that the acceptance in Danish society of undeclared work has also decreased. That's really, really positive. But there is still a lack of work and too much of it, and there are some of the elements in the legislative proposal which are really good in terms of the work we did in committee. I also think they maintain the balance very well. However, I would like to agree with my colleagues from the Radical Left and the Social Democrats and say that this is one element of the control that is needed to ensure justice and fairness; another is direct control, where we still have to see that we are equipped to a reasonable level. As we have often heard from the CSFs and from the auditors, a really bad culture has developed over the last few years, a norm slip among, not all, but too many companies. And when we look at the compliance report that came a few years ago, we can see that there were errors in half of the country's companies • I think it's 700,000 cvr numbers that are in the country and in 10%. Of them, it was estimated that cheating and humbug were deliberate. That is all, too much, and it also undermines the glue that must bind us together, not only among citizens, but also among companies. Because if you look around and think it's incredibly easy to cheat, and if you're just the fool who pays your taxes as you should, then it's subversive. And there we have said together among the parties that we want SKAT back on track, but that requires the resources needed so that random checks do not become too rare a view of something that you can think of in your risk-taking. I would also like to congratulate the Treasury Department and the Minister for Taxation for having welcomed this initiative. As I have said, it is not often that a draft law coming from the government is rooted in a committee and in committee work, and unfortunately it has to be said that the committees have been emptied, not completely, but too much, for political content, for real negotiations, and this can, I hope, serve as an example that we in the committee can make real policy and something that will also turn into real legislation in the long term. SF supports this bill, of course, and when I looked down over the initiatives again, I thought that many of them might be really good in a changed form also to lay down over parts of the financial sector. So this is what we're saying, that there's actually going to be a digital log; we're actually going to be able to see how the transactions work; we're actually going to talk. However, this is another discussion which, unfortunately, we will not be able to finish for the time being. But thank you for the process, thank you to the Minister, and the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024104447	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and welcome to Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024104457	Thank you very much. I would also like to begin by commending the creation of the bill and the agreement we have made on combating undeclared work, all the parliamentary work, the working group, some of it has been carried out before my time as tax rapporteur, but nevertheless I think it is very good that we can now stand here with an agreement that brings together all the parties of the Folketing, where we can, in agreement, also implement initiatives that fight undeclared work. I do not want to stand here and repeat all the initiatives contained in the agreement and the draft law. In fact, I think that several of my fellow Members have done this in the best possible way in the past, but I would say that, in the Conservative People's Party, we naturally support the initiatives we are now taking against undeclared work, because undeclared work is unacceptable, it cheats the treasury, it cheats the community, and it also, of course, leads to unfair competition against the many who follow the rules, and of course we do not want that. Fortunately, as several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, undeclared work is declining in Denmark and, fortunately, the Danes' acceptance of undeclared work is also decreasing. After all, it's really good. The initiatives that we have agreed and which we are now implementing with the bill here will make it more difficult to cheat the community, but this is done in a way that does not result in a wall of bureaucracy and trouble in companies and citizens. In fact, I think that is an important consideration too. There must be proportionality and I also think that we have found a sensible balance here. And, of course, I agree with the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance that the best way to combat undeclared work is, of course, to have a lower tax and, of course, a simpler tax system, because I believe that will benefit a great deal too. But with those words, I would just like to say that, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024104652	Thank you very much to Anders Johansson. Then we've reached the tax minister. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024104702	Black work costs Danes money every year in the form of lost tax revenue to the Treasury, and undeclared work also creates unequal competition to the detriment of the labour market. If you do not calculate the right tax or VAT, you have a competitive advantage vis-à-vis your competitors. Fortunately, the latest reports from the Rockwool Foundation show that there is no indication that undeclared work is a hugely increasing problem, on the contrary. If we compare with other countries, Denmark has a relatively low tax gap when it comes to undeclared work. One of the things that makes us have a lot of bad work was that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech: the fact that we have very, very high salaries, and we have very, very high taxation. So for a large number of services there is no incentive to actually go out and buy themselves from a task. Then it will pay better for itself to carry it out, and it will then create an incentive for some to choose the middle way, namely to buy for it, but for some who do not calculate the right tax and the right VAT. At the same time, the tax administration's own approach studies show that there is generally low acceptance among citizens of cheating on taxes or using undeclared work. It's out there. I myself learn this from the part of the country where I was born and raised, namely in northern Jutland, where people sometimes find that at least some say that VAT has not been passed through north of Limfjorden. That is not true, and where there are the greatest challenges with black work is actually not in North Jutland, but another part of the country located in the northern part of Zealand. But let's just leave it alone. I am pleased, as Minister for Taxation, that although there are challenges, we are well compared with other countries in relation to the level of undeclared work. That does not mean, of course, that we should not do any more. We're not just gonna rest on our laurels. The Danish Parliament's Tax Committee has not done so in this matter, and I have not done so in my capacity as Minister of Taxation. We have looked at, initially in the Committee on Taxation, what can be done to maintain positive developments and reduce the level of undeclared work. The proposal we are debating here today is an expression of a series of initiatives aimed precisely at reducing the tax gap when it comes to undeclared work. It is the government's view that it should be easy to operate in Denmark and that citizens and companies should not experience their legal certainty being violated. That is why the government wants the fight against undeclared work to be legally sound and balanced. I do not think it is surprising that I, as the tax minister, have made the proposal that we have found the right balance with the proposal that lies. Before the proposal, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, there has been some parliamentary work in which the Committee on Taxation has found some old ways of saying it sounds so negative to say old, but it is not, in this case, Parliamentary traditions forward and set up a parliamentary working group where work has been done on what could be done to limit undeclared work, and all the parliamentary parties have contributed constructively and made a number of proposals. This was done earlier decades ago, when the Folketing was more concerned about policy developments and not just in the ministries. As Minister for Taxation, I should like to congratulate the Committee on Taxation on the work that has been done. I think it is positive and constructive that this subject and other issues have been addressed, not only in terms of constructive control of the government, which is, after all, the task of Parliament and the Folketing, but also in terms of what we want to do. There is a great deal of influence in this for a parliament. There is also a lot of work to be done, and much work has been done in the working group, also by the officials in the Folketing of the members of the committees who have participated and by the Ministry of Taxation in order, of course, to serve this parliamentary working group. That is why I am also pleased that we have jointly decided to translate most of the proposals into real legislation. That, then, is what is reflected here in the draft law, and I think it is some sensible proposals. I also think that there is a legal balance in this. Sir. After all, Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party mentioned one of the points where we lower the level of joint liability to what is possible under EU rules. But, on the other hand, we are also getting a little bit of legal certainty, because there are some citizens who may have got into trouble with this joint liability, where they cannot meet a formal requirement and in that way get caught, but where it is clear to most people, at least in the sense of common sense glasses, that this was not a cheat or a fraud; it was a case of someone who could not comply with a formal requirement. So I think there's the right balance. Well, then, sir. Jesper Petersen also mentioned that there are some things that we have not achieved. And it is true that one of the major things is the decision on which industries should be imposed on a digital sales registration system that you have in Norway and Sweden. We will meet on that later this year and decide. We must think carefully about this, in the sense that there are a large number of companies that may not use a digital sales registration system, but do bookkeeping and other things and comply with the rules, and we should not impose an unnecessary burden on them. That wouldn't be fair. On the other hand, this digital sales registration system can be used to reduce undeclared work and increase regulatory compliance. So again, it's about finding the right balance. This requires some political discussions, but also some professional work for the officials of the Danish Treasury and the Treasury. I am now sure that we will get to the end of that task. With the reception that has been given by the tax rapporteurs here today, I am also sure that we will be in line with the draft law. So I'd like to sign for the positive reception. And then I must hurry to say that there may sometimes be a misunderstanding in public that when there is not a major debate in the Danish Parliament on a proposal when there are not many questions about a bill, it is an indication that politicians have not taken a stand on what it is about and have not tested and checked the minister. But at least this cannot be taken as an expression in this case, because a huge amount of work has gone ahead in the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee and in negotiations in the Danish Treasury, which for natural reasons takes place behind closed doors and not in front of rolling camera. So if there is not a violent debate here today and perhaps not a great many questions were asked about the proposal, it is because we have been guided and found a good political compromise. That is, of course, what politics is all about: making the good compromise, and it has all its contributions in this matter and this bill. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105436	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105439	Thank you. I also find it very pleasing that our joint work has borne fruit. I think it may just be a bit funny to include the question of how high the tax level is, given some of the cases that are currently running so that it should be that you have a certain level of taxation that should motivate people to cheat and cheat. I believe that in these days we see quite a lot of examples of the fact that it has nothing to do with what a tax level is actually, that someone wants to milk state funds, cheat citizens and actually have been carried out criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105525	Now I am not going to deal with current issues of profit fraud and share law and everything else. I think it is generally well documented that a high level of taxation in an area leads to an increased incentive to cheat and fraud. We see it in the area of car taxation. We tax • despite the fact that we have put the registration fee down • cars very hard, and there are some who are encouraged to make leasing carousels and other things. I have also experienced this within, for example. imports of water pipe tobacco. There is a major problem of compliance, and I have asked the employees in the tax administration who control the water pipe work, and some employees do. When I asked them, they were sitting in Grenaa where there are problems with regulatory compliance here, and they say that there is a very widespread problem with regulatory compliance when it comes to calculating the right fees for water pipe tobacco. Then I asked what is the reason for this, and they say that this may be due to the fact that the tax is DKK 800. The kilo. So if the tax were less, the incentive to cheat might also be less. So there's some connection. But for some, I agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen in that, it does not matter. That's where you want to cheat. And we have to pay particular attention to catching them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105640	Thank you. Is there any connection at all if you just look at the European countries, so that the lower the tax level you generally have in a country, let us say a South European or an Eastern European country, the more the amount of undeclared work decreases • so that the amount of black work decreases proportionally with what the tax level is in a given country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105702	I think a number of different studies have been carried out. Generally speaking, the level of taxation has some effect on the incentive to cheat and cheat. The discovery risk is important, and how easy it is to pay the right tax is equally important. If you want to prevent some from cheating in an area, you can abolish a tax or tax. Then it is impossible to defraud it, but by legalizing it, you send a signal, on the other hand, that you reward those who have cheated and cheated, and I do not want to do so as a tax minister. But there is some connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105747	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105748	Thank you. The Minister of Taxation began by saying that while there is a problem with undeclared work in Denmark, the problem is smaller than in other countries. Nevertheless, we are now talking about a discussion that should be about the level of taxation. That it may have significance is probably true, but nevertheless we have a smaller loss in Denmark than in other countries where the tax is somewhat lower than it is in Denmark. I think we should be careful not to say that there is a one-to-one relationship. Unfortunately, it has become apparent that the joint efforts of the authorities in the field of social dumping in the labour market by the former SKAT, the police and the Labour Inspectorate are very effective. And when you're sorry it is, it's because you wish there was nothing to come for out there. However, the answers we have received from the Ministry of Taxation itself suggest that cases of fraud with VAT and tax really are found, and that this therefore leads to unfair competition and also to wage pressure on the labour market. Will the Minister of Taxation not give an indication that it is now time to make it clear that there must be a permanent regulatory effort in this area rather than the kind of drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip-drip which is taking place?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024105901	After all, I agree with Mr. Knox. Jesper Petersen and, by the way, Mr. Denni Flydtkjær in that, in terms of managing and spending the money effectively, it makes more sense to make permanent appropriations than temporary. Otherwise, things run a little up and down. In many areas, however, things are de facto stable, because within a four-year period, when we have allocated money to something, it is the case that in the last year we are allocating more money. In principle, however, and as a tax minister, I would prefer that there should be fixed basic appropriations and that the basic appropriations should be as large as possible and that the level of temporary appropriations should be reduced. On the other hand, they have over in the Ministry of Finance, who are the ones responsible for our country's finances, a legitimate desire sometimes to give priority and to see whether it is true that so much money is spent on one or so much money on the other. So that we do this in the way we do it is, after all, a reflection of the balance between the territory of a Resort Minister with a desire for fixed appropriations and the territory of the Ministry of Finance with a desire to be able to give priority to how we use our funds from time to time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110007	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110008	One thing can then be four-year appropriations, and then you relate to it again. What has been the case in this area is typically one-year appropriations. Every year, when the Finance Bill comes, there is again a risk that employees from the Labour Inspectorate or from what was previously called SKAT are nervous about whether they still have their jobs and find other jobs instead of doing the very useful work they have done and are doing. The tax minister could then at least give the indication to make the four-year grant, which I somehow sense is what the tax minister seems to be a reasonable compromise between the interest of the Resort Minister and the interest of the Minister for Finance. It is not healthy and we will have as many jobs with foreign workers as we need to control, including the following years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110059	Thank you. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110100	Well, there is no doubt that that is what I prefer, i.e. if you cannot get a permanent grant, then it is a four-year grant. I think we should refrain from making one-year or two-year appropriations. I'm afraid that happens once in a while. It is not for me to decide; it is the negotiations that are going on in the Ministry of Finance with the Minister for Finance at the end, about the creation of the Finance Act. And that is where we are negotiating with our support party, namely the Danish People's Party, and I am sure that we need to find a good solution to this problem and some of the other problems raised in the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110139	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110151	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110200	The aim of the bill is to make it easy and attractive for Danes to invest in shares by introducing this share savings account, where people can place their savings in quoted shares and equity-based investment certificates at a lower level of taxation than otherwise the normal taxation for equity income. The Social Democratic Party supports the intention to create such a share-saving account and also the fact that employees who have free means will benefit more from free means, for example. to invest in shares with all the reservations and thought that you must, of course, make when you invest your funds. But we can see that the increasing inequality at home is due in particular to differences in capital income, including equity income. Figures from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior show that more than 50 per cent of the population live in rural areas. of the Danish capital income accrues to the top 1 percentage of the wealth ladder in Denmark. So there are also many who have many free funds that they could get more out of than just standing on a payroll without really giving any return to their economy, pension, or how they will now use the return that can be achieved. The proposal thus follows on from the ideas we ourselves have made and which the LO has also been involved in the past. However, we wonder why the conciliation parties want to introduce a ceiling of DKK 200,000 when we come forward a little over the years. What is at hand is a proposal for a maximum share savings account of DKK 50,000, but the idea of the conciliation parties is that it should be discussed on an ongoing basis and thus increased to DKK 200,000, and then we will be if you just have DKK 200,000. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter. This leads a little to the other content of this package, which this proposal actually comes from, namely that you end up getting some tax relief for some of the most prosperous Danes a little in the back way. The agreement, according to the Ministry of Finance's own calculations, gives the 1,000 most prosperous Danes a tax relief of nearly DKK 75,000. If you now maintain the ceiling of DKK 50,000, which is the immediate proposal, that is what both we and the LO have recommended... the agreement will cost approx. 160 million kr. less, which one would then be able to apply to some other good measures. After all, we see great needs in our welfare societies to strengthen health care, care for the elderly, schools and so on. So this is one of the places where this agreement could easily be made cheaper and a sensible measure cheaper rather than targeting a tax relief to some of those who already have the most. So that part of the proposal, that is to say the intention to increase it further, we cannot support it, but we will vote in favour of the introduction of this share savings account itself, but we will try to get a political clarification in committee that it is then here and no longer and that we can spend the 160 million. kr. On some better things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110551	Thank you. This is about the implementation of part of the agreement we made in November 2017, about some business and growth initiatives, and one of the measures was the creation of a share savings account, which aims to make it easy and attractive to invest in shares, because we want the stock culture to spread. It could be healthy, I think, that there will also be more ordinary Danes investing in companies and that it is therefore not only for those who have a high income. They acquire ownership and can thus also take part in the development that is if a company goes well, and then things are better, by more money coming out to the owners. The concrete model is that the income from a share savings account should be taxed at 17 per cent. according to the principle of stockpiling, which means that dividends and increases in value during the year will be taxed. It's actually a pretty simple model. That is also the purpose of it. It must be a model that is quite easy to go for the Danes. The ceiling will be, as was also mentioned by the previous rapporteur, with this $50,000 bill, which means that you can put money into the account until you reach this amount. As also mentioned, the parties to the agreement, of which the Danish People's Party is one, have agreed that every year we must evaluate this initiative on this account before possibly increasing it by DKK 50,000. a year. I would say that I certainly look forward to having the scheme evaluated before we take a position in order to see how it has affected the various groups, i.e. whether it is only those who have already invested in shares that are using this option, or whether it has spread to ordinary Danes who so far will be trading shares; types that may not be trading shares today. And once we have looked at the outcome of that evaluation, we must decide whether we should increase the amount further. We have to legislate on that every time. So what we are dealing with here in concrete terms is whether it is a limit of 50,000 kroner. Sir. Jesper Petersen mentioned that he is not in favour of a future change, but that is what we are dealing with. It will then be dealt with in a year's time, I do not know exactly what the timetable is, but it will come later. If you agree with the DKK 50,000, such as: The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' LO has also mentioned that we can at least vote with peace of mind for this draft law, and then we can vote against a later draft law on an increase if we are against it. But the Danish People's Party is in this agreement on business and growth initiatives, so we can at least support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110824	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Petersen
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110826	I fully agree with Mr. Denni Flydtkjær in what the procedure is, and that is also why we are voting in favour of it here, even though we are actually opposed to the intention that it should be increased further. I also think that these are some fine remarks about why there is an evaluation and why there needs to be an ongoing position. It also opens up, I think, a reflection on whether to go further. So I just wanted to know, when you're on that deal for the $200,000. Dennis Flydtkjære then give such a little more insight into whether it was the wish of the Danish People's Party that it should be up there or whether it was other parties that would like it? How were those debates about the $200,000 you'd get?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024110912	Well, I can tell you that, because I think that has also been publicized, in the media and elsewhere. So, the government had wanted a ceiling that was significantly higher than the 50,000 kroner where we agreed to the negotiations that we could live with a ceiling of 50,000 kroner, because we were in agreement with the intention that a share savings account could be a good idea. We also think it would be a good idea to spread a stock culture among the Danes, but we had the starting point that we should start a little softer, get some experience with it before we started this full-scale project, also because it costs some more money. So that's actually why we landed on this compromise. We started with the DKK 50,000 that we wanted from the Danish People's Party, but with an option that we can go further if it is successful. And money has also been set aside for it, so that we do not have to fight all the time about how we finance it. It is clear that if it turns out to be a great idea, then we also think that it might be a consideration for the Social Democrats to say: well, then it might be up to DKK 100,000. Or maybe it turns out to be a bad idea. Well, then we don't go any further, and then we don't spend the money either. So this is one of the good compromises we have reached, namely that every year we evaluate it and look at how the spread of this account has been. Has it made us have a better stock culture, well then it might make sense to take the step further. But we will have to see that in a year's time when we know more about how things have gone.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111020	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111025	Thank you for the floor. This bill, as the two previous rapporteurs have also said, is the implementation of the Business and Entrepreneurship Agreement concluded by the Government ^Left, Liberal Alliance and Conservatives with the Danish People's Party and the Radicals. Specifically, this bill is designed to enable the Danes to create a share savings account where you can place your savings in quoted shares and equity-based investment certificates. The taxation of the return on the share savings account will be 17 per cent. according to the principle of stockpiling and this means that the return or loss will not be included as part of your other income. One cannot then deduct any losses on it from one's other income. I hope that getting the opportunity for these stock savings accounts will help create a more active stock culture in Denmark. We can see that Sweden has a much more active stock culture than we have in Denmark and that it has a certain impact on the possibility of start-ups for funding. It can also have an impact on the interest of the Danes in general for the new companies. So I hope that this will help create a more active culture among the Danes in relation to the companies. Here and now, the proposal is that there will be a ceiling on deposits into the account of DKK 50,000. in 2019 level and money will be available in the account as long as the value is below the ceiling. According to our agreement, the ceiling should grow to DKK 100,000. in 2020, to DKK 150,000. in 2021 and to DKK 200,000. in 2022. And we have agreed that the parties to the agreement will meet every year to decide to proceed with the increases above the ceiling on the share savings account. Against this background, I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111214	I would like to thank the rapporteur, and we shall move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111230	In the Enhedslisten, we can't support this bill on a stock savings account. Statements from the Labour Movement's Enterprise Council, the AE Council, show that the total share initiatives, which are intended to create a so-called better stock culture in Denmark and which are a key part of the 2017 business package, are a tax reduction that almost exclusively lands with not only the richest percentage, but with the 1,000 richest people in this country. So it's not even a proposal for people with a Mercedes, it's for people with Bentley or Rolls-Royce. Almost 80,000 kroner. the 1,000 richest in tax reduction according to the AE Council, and as far as the ninetyth percentile, i.e. 90%, the tax reduction will not exceed DKK 200. So no ordinary people get anything out of this stock savings account. It is yet another tax reduction in a long line, which gives the most value to those who have and the higher the ceiling, the more exclusive the scheme will be. The ambition to be able to place as much as DKK 200,000 by 2022. in a stock savings account for a low taxation rate of 17 per cent, says everything. Who's got 200,000 kroner? in free funds to throw into a stock savings account? For many people, this amounts to a full annual income after tax. It is also a little strange why the scheme is actually made in such a way that it focuses on quoted shares. Then it is certainly not the entrepreneurs that you help. And do the big listed companies really need more buy shares from them? In fact, they are doing quite well. In fact, 2017 was a record year and according to the director of Nasdaq Copenhagen, the companies have good opportunities to raise capital in a liquid market. So where is the need to strengthen the stock culture? Isn't it really about giving tax relief to the richest? Yeah, that's what this is about. If you really had to make a share savings account, you could at least look at whether there were specific industries or areas, not least green entrepreneurial companies, which you might be able to accommodate. But here we are talking about a general tax reduction which will benefit very much those who already have the most. So it becomes a clear no from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111508	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111521	Thank you for that, President. Capital taxes in Denmark are far too high. The highest real tax rate on equity income is 84%. Economic theory argues that the return on capital should not be taxed at all. It is not socio-economicly appropriate to tax consumption output, as savings are. Therefore, the best thing would have been for us to have reduced the share tax in the business package. Unfortunately, however, there was no majority in favour of this. On the other hand, there was a majority in favour of the introduction of a share savings account managed by banks with a ceiling of DKK 50,000. and a storage tax of 17 per cent. This is not something that actually reduces the complexity of the tax system, but it reduces the taxation of the money entered into the account. That is why it is a step in the right direction, which hopefully can lead to more Danes investing in companies for their own benefit and for the benefit of society as a whole, and that this will create a better stock culture in Denmark, where we also discuss with each other what is good to invest in, which companies are good to invest in, and not just what kind of loans we should have in our houses. But, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111700	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111708	This is actually a really interesting suggestion. When we had the negotiations, in the alternative, we also managed to be in the beginning, and we appreciated that. Eventually, we couldn't be in the whole package. This proposal was, in fact, one of those in which we thought that we might be able to take part, and I am not completely clear yet either. Our immediate position is that it's fine to raise the limit to $200,000. If you want to, it's okay. However, if we are to create the opportunity for those who have more than the majority at home, that is to say those who have the opportunity to invest such a large amount of money, and that should be okay for us in the alternative, then we will probably have to get something green or some social sustainability or something with in addition that makes us make a weighting of what we support. Because if we only do what the bill says at the moment, then it will be the same answer that we also had in the negotiations, that is, that it is good to raise the limit and fine, if you could also get unlisted shares in it and support some things locally that have so much difficulty in getting focus, but as long as there is neither support for the green nor the social in these investments, then it will be too unbalanced for us in the alternative to say yes to. But that's a little too bad. Because I actually agree that it might be good to get more knowledge about the stock area at home, but then we have to find other ways to do it. So unless I get much, much smarter or get something quite surprising through • 'cause I actually think that the tax minister and the parties behind it have thought very well about how far they will go; we have had the discussions earlier then it becomes a no on our side. But imagine if we could start thinking about just a green bottom line in such initiatives here, if we would go in and give the opportunity to prioritise stocks of the population and create knowledge about it, create debate, then we would also like to be part of the alternative. But then it just requires that we support some of the companies that we know also take social responsibility or support a green bottom line. Fortunately, many of those who are now likely to receive support are doing the same. But we need to have a little more security before we can say yes to it. So with almost a hundred percent certainty it's no on our side.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111913	Thank you, sir. René Gade. We move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024111921	It often comes out in the political debate that entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises face challenges in providing risk capital to develop the company, create more jobs and also create new large companies that we can all benefit from. International studies also show that funding, i.e. access to capital, is one of the major challenges facing Danish industry. After the financial crisis, it seems that banks are not really so risky anymore when it comes to granting loans to start-ups or small businesses. It seems that they have put a lot of money in houses and land and are reasonably exposed there and therefore do not take such great risks anymore. That is why we have been watching for a long time in the contract circle behind this law and also in the Radical Left whether some of the many billions that the Danes have in savings or in pension savings could be invested in companies so that they could have access to some of the capital they need. This stock savings account is one of the means that we have agreed to use to get more Danes to put their money on top to create new jobs and businesses. As among others: The Enhedslisten and the Alternative mentioned, we could actually have thought that unlisted shares, i.e. shares in entrepreneurship, had also been included. We would also have liked to see more progress made in relation to how much money could be made, but this was as far as we could get parliamentary right now. So I see that you have got the dashboard, that is to say you have got a piece of tools to promote investment in the Danes, and hopefully we can turn over time on that dashboard. At any rate, we are ready for this, and we are in the first place very happy that we have managed to get this initiative into Danish legislation, and I hope that the Danes will take it into account and that it will mean that more money can be invested in companies for the benefit of all of us and not least in order to create more jobs in Denmark. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112148	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112204	SF isn't in the deal, and SF can't support this bill either. We really think there are so many things wrong with this bill, compared to what might otherwise be a direction to get the Danes who have little money in profits to invest in things that could grow bigger. Firstly, as several of my colleagues have said, unlisted shares are not included. That is to say, it is not all the growth layer of people who really need capital, it will benefit. It is the C20 index, the large companies that are doing well in advance. As my colleague from the Enhedslisten said, we have seen some record years in the past few years. Secondly, it is not something that supports green or socially sustainable development, as my colleague from the Alternative also mentioned. And finally, it's screwed up so badly that you could hardly have made it worse if you had tried. It couldn't have been constructed more crookedly. And then I actually think it's shameless to sell it as if it's something that benefits ordinary people. I mean, I just don't think it belongs anywhere. That's not what this bill is all about. You could do something else where you had cut it so much where you had said: it is those with small and medium-sized incomes who have suffered small sums of money to save that which gets something out of this. One could have said that it is some of our entrepreneurs or SMEs or small businesses that need to be lifted. They are the ones that are targeted. It could be green conversion, it could be social economic activity, it could be anything. But you choose to spend over 100 million. kr. Well, then just call it by its right name: a tax reduction for those who have the most. So be honest about it. And that's why I really don't think it's right to try to wrap it up as if this is a gift for ordinary employees. So we cannot support it, and I really do not think it belongs anywhere to wrap it up, as has been done here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112440	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112443	The rapporteur says that this is as crooked as it can possibly be, but at the same time there is a consultation response from the LO, and it has also been in the debate in the past which says that it could actually be a good idea with a share savings account. My acquaintance isn't exactly the typical LO members who are the richest. When you usually talk about us doing something that's awkward, it's not aimed at the LO members. It is fair that you do not think it should be up to the DKK 200,000, as the Social Democratic Party also believes, but the LO actually recommends that it should be DKK 50,000, because they may well see that it is also an advantage for their members that they become co-owners of the companies in which they work or potentially will work in the future. Then one could not just reflect on whether it might be outside the dial to say that it is so crooked when even LO actually thinks it might be a good idea with a stock savings account?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112530	The only answer I can give is that I don't understand the LO's approach to this either. I don't. So I can't give any better answer than that. I think it's quite on the moon. Sorry about my language. I don't understand LO's approach to this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112545	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112548	The rapporteur must then have a dialogue with the LO on this. I cannot answer why the rapporteur does not understand this. Another point raised by several other rapporteurs is that if what you invest in had just been green, it would be okay. It's kind of funny. You think it's a problem that it's the richest people who want to use a share savings account. I don't believe that, because the goal is exactly the opposite, but if they want to invest in Vestas, it's not a problem. I mean, it's gonna be a little unspeakable if it's just a problem as long as you invest in Volvo, but if you invest in a green business, it's not a problem, you can do it. It's kind of hard to do it like that. The rapporteur then said that we could make it so that it was only for those with the lowest incomes, but should we then say that if you have an income above DKK 300,000, you cannot buy shares?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112630	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112631	One could have constructed it in a hundred other ways, so that it had had some purpose in addition to glorifying the richest. You could have cut it, for example. are those with an income below some amount that can use this. We could have cut it, so it had a social profile. It could have been cut down so that it helped the tied task that we have, namely a green transition. Or it could have been another social gain you could have gotten out of this. None of this is here. The only thing is just like sir. Rune Lund of the Enhedslisten said that this is the most allerall-rich part of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112714	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024112722	Thank you very much. The legislative proposal here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, is the implementation of the agreement we made on the business and entrepreneurship package last November, an agreement which, moreover, contains a whole catalogue of very good measures. After all, the savings account that we are making now is no exception. The share savings account that we are now dealing with in this bill has come into being after the Swedish model, where it has been a great success. The possibility of investing in quoted shares for low taxation in the Swedish version of the share savings account has also contributed to Sweden becoming an attractive country to be listed on the stock exchange. In fact, it is so significant that Sweden, even taking into account the size difference between Denmark and Sweden, has 30 times as many stock exchange quotations as in Denmark, and it has actually been quite well done. But it is also a shame for Denmark. For some of the companies listed on the Swedish stock exchange, Danish companies are in fact Danish companies, which we risk gradually losing because they are seeking towards Sweden and access to risk capital. Therefore, the government back in autumn 2017 proposed an ambitious change and reduction compared to the Danish capital tax rules to make it more attractive for Danes to invest in Danish companies. Unfortunately, there was no appetite for the big, radical change and reduction of capital taxation. But we would have liked to see that from the conservative side. Nevertheless, we are also pleased that we have got this new initiative under way, namely the share savings account. The Danes have seen about 1 trillion DKK. standing in the banks to 0 per cent. at interest rate. Imagine if you could get just a few percent of the money in games to support Danish companies. That would be a win for all of us. We have a hope that the share savings account can boost a development where we make it more attractive fiscally to invest in companies that we can boost a development where more Danes will spend some of their savings money on investing in Danish companies. In the Conservative People's Party, we have much greater ambitions in terms of reducing capital taxation than is the plan here with the share savings account. We are pleased that this ceiling on the share savings account has been set up gradually, but of course we would have liked to see it go even further. In fact, we would have preferred the Swedish model to be taken, where they have no ceiling at all. It would benefit Danish companies and thus also make Denmark richer. But this bill is a good step in the right direction towards lower capital taxation, which is why we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024113030	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024113041	Thank you. I would like to thank you for what I at least see as the positive reception of the proposal for the introduction of a share savings account. After all, the proposal translates a substantial part of the agreement reached by the government with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left in November last year, i.e. a year ago, on a number of business and entrepreneurial initiatives, which has led to what has happened today. Actually, it's not every day that we introduce a whole new tax law. Most legislative proposals are designed to change existing laws, but it is necessary, in the view of the government and fortunately also a broad majority in the Folketing, to make a special effort to strengthen the Danes' interest in investing in shares. The fact that the shares are spread out to a greater proportion of the population will hopefully benefit the companies, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, and this will benefit the Danes who will then be able to gain a share in the company's growth and prosperity. The one we typically reflect either in the yield from a share or in the share price, so at a time when share-based, share-listed, companies are in circulation, several ordinary Danes can get a share in the wealth that is created. The aim of the bill is therefore to strengthen the stock culture of the population by making it easy and economically attractive to invest in quoted shares. The share savings account will help to give more Danes an interest in investing in shares and, as a result, also a private economic interest in how the companies are doing. The investment in shares, as I mentioned earlier, will allow more Danes to gain a share in the value created in the companies. With the proposed share savings account, individuals can place their savings in quoted shares and share-based investment certificates for a tax rate of only 17 per cent. This is, after all, significantly lower than the normal taxation of equity income. Then, of course, there has been a discussion here from a number of rapporteurs that no one will use it, that it is only for the richest, and the usual song from the left. I am quite convinced that very, very many ordinary Danes will make a stock savings account. Why would they want to do that? Because really, a lot of ordinary employees have shares on a larger or smaller scale: 5,000, 10,000, 25,000, 30,000, 35,000, 40,000, perhaps 50,000 or 100,000. in shares. There they can profitably sell the shares they hold in their normal depot today, where you pay the normal dividend tax of 27 per cent, and then they can move them into a stock-saving account where they can get rid of 17 per cent. So it would be a really good business for people to move their ordinary shares that they have in their stores today into a stock savings account, especially if the total value of one's shares is below this DKK 50,000, which is the ceiling. So we will see a lot of stock savings accounts being created, and I think it will turn out that it is quite common people who use the share savings account, where those who are big, professional investors, not for such a limited amount as the 50,000 DKK. After all, will do something strange. The great advantage here lies for Mr. and Mrs Denmark, who is now receiving a significantly lower tax on their shares than is the case today, and they are getting a share in the wealth created by Danish companies. I also hope that many people will become shareholders for the first time, that parents will give their children some shares and put them into a stock savings account, where the value of shares can grow in the coming years and children can gain a share in the wealth created by listed companies. It is expected that a number of Danes will shift part of their passive savings from an ordinary savings account that does not provide a return to a much more active form of savings via the equity savings account. Today it is the case that if you have money in the bank, it is just before that it costs money. At least that's not something you make anymore. There is investing in an equity savings account, where you may be able to make an index investment, which is relatively certain, compared to getting no or a minus return to put your money in an attractive form of investment. So the bill makes it attractive to invest in shares via a stock savings account, but you also make it easy to be an equity investor. Indeed, the saver must neither calculate nor self-declare the taxable return on the share savings account, the whole thing is done by the bank, as we know today from the pension schemes. It is therefore the bank that calculates the gains and losses in the share savings account each year, collects the tax and pays it to the tax authorities. Then there has been criticism, and there are also some rapporteurs who are upset today. After all, we should not be upset at the fact that a political settlement has been reached, because, as I said in my previous speech, this is an expression of good policy, and that is why I welcome the agreement that lies in it. But I understand those who would like to see more than 50,000 kroner injected. of the scheme. It is true, however, that we have agreed that this should be done gradually, and that is why I, as Minister for Taxation, choose to welcome the fact that we are now getting started with the share savings account, which is already known from Sweden, where it has meant • because there we have figures on the fact that many ordinary people have become shareholders. We have decided to follow the share savings account closely by the parties behind the share savings account agreement. As can be seen from the text of the agreement, each year the parties to the agreement will have to decide for the first time in 2019, i.e. next year whether there are grounds to proceed with the increase in the ceiling for the share savings account, and it has been agreed that the ceiling will be raised gradually, if necessary, so that it will amount to DKK 200,000. In 2022 and onwards, and we have set the money aside for it. However, an increase in the ceiling requires a change in the law. Due to the provisions of the Constitution that a tax or tax may not be levied without legal provision, it also limits the possibility that a tax minister may simply raise a ceiling or introduce a new tax or tax. As a citizen, this must be fundamentally welcomed. It is, of course, a protection for citizens, even though in this case, when you decide to raise the ceiling, it makes it a little difficult, understood in that way that it requires a change of law. If such a change is to be made, it must take effect from the following year of income. The parties to the agreement will therefore be convened in June for each of the next three years, so that the bill on the increase can be put forward. So this means that the time when you have to decide whether you want to raise the ceiling and you have to decide on that, as has also been said by the Danish People's Party • will be at a meeting in June. After all, the Constitution also limits the length of time a government can sit without there having been a parliamentary election, and in June of next year there has been a parliamentary election, as far as I can figure out. So I cannot be sure that I am the tax minister at that time, but if I am, that is where we will call the meeting to discuss this issue and if it is not me, it will be for my successor to do so so that the issue of raising and raising the ceiling can be discussed. In conclusion, thank you for the debate we have had here today and look forward to the committee's consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024113819	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024113822	It's about this question of whether the share savings account later on, when we're on the other side of what looks like adopting the bill, should be bigger still. Too much of what lies in the tax minister's argument and speech is, after all, about some relatively common groups of employees in Denmark, who may have some free funds, which one might have profited from a share savings account instead of having them standing on a regular account. If that is what we can agree on is the target group, why should it actually be bigger than 50,000 kroner?? I mean, getting it as much as $200,000 as the government's intention does mean that we are beyond what ordinary people probably just have left to hold in shares... most of them at least. So I would actually suggest that you settle for the $50,000 if this is the real purpose. And then there's a good 160 million. kr. to spend on some other and better purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024113927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024113929	It is precisely because we want the ordinary Dane to have a share in the wealth created in large listed companies. The ordinary Dane actually has a lot of free funds at his disposal. In Denmark we have a tradition of saving our accommodation. Why do we have that? We do, because the profit is tax-free and because it has been attractive and we have seen some housing prices that have developed very violently in recent years. It is not certain that we will see it in the years to come; in fact, I doubt it. Compared to the free funds that the Danes place on closed accounts or receive by saving on their debt in the housing, it is socio-economic and private-economically much more attractive for them to invest them in shares. In that case, the share in the increase in value that will be in the shares, the dividends paid out, will receive the value creation that is for the companies. And that's why we start with 50,000 DKK, but I certainly don't mean, if you look at what an ordinary Dane can save over a life cycle, that 200,000 DKK. is a huge amount of money. There are very many Danes who have, either saved in their homes or in free funds standing on savings accounts or other, where they don't get any return from their money • Now they can get it here in their stock savings account for a cheap game.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024114041	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024114043	However, I think we are going to encounter something in relation to what it really is for a target group, it will really benefit if you set the amount of the account up to the DKK 200,000. If you are lucky enough to get over the $50,000 you have the opportunity to have placed here, you can still have them invested in shares or bonds or other investment opportunities, even in securities, that is, in other ways than having to have a particularly low tax. Then we have to say, okay, it's good for you that you've come over the $50,000. If you want more investment in securities, there are all the opportunities we know today. And that is something you can do; it is not a brake pad. So I don't think the argument holds up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024114126	Thank you. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024114127	Well, the government's motivation for this is to make sure that more Danes get a share in the value creation that is in our stock market. Now it hasn't gone so well this year... now it's not because I'm following it so closely. But as Mr. Rune Lund said it was a great year in 2017. And there I am sorry that there are so few Danes who get a share in the value creation there is. And that is why we want to favour fiscally. If we gave it freely and said that you could put all your money in, millions, then I could understand the criticism. But it is a question of $200,000. There are, therefore, a great many ordinary Danish employees who have it in free means. And then they can share in the wealth that is being created. And the government wants to give them the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024114208	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130008	The sitting is resumed. Today there is the following further review: Minister for Business (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill no. L 79 (Proposal for a law on company pension funds). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130022	The first question is to the Minister for the Environment and Food by Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130032	That gives the author the floor to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130036	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that there is a need for action to save the severely threatened snake in Varde Å, possibly by setting up a gene bank for the species?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130051	Thank you for the question. Of course, we will live up to our obligations to protect the apple in Denmark, not just in Varde Å, but in all streams where the apple may have sneaked off. However, at this stage I cannot point to a concrete solution. The apple is included in Annex 4 to the Habitats Directive and thus one of the species which is subject to the most stringent EU protection. At the same time, Denmark has a special responsibility for the snow apple in Denmark as one of only three countries with a tree population. That is why we have identified several South West Jutland streams, among others. Varde Å, as a habitat area to protect the snake, and a wide range of actions have been carried out for the snake. A rescue operation was launched in the period 1987-1992 to help and re-establish the stock in the Wadden Sea rivers through extensive farming and shooting of snakes, and in 2003 a national management plan for snakes was drawn up. During the period 2005-2013, the Ministry of the Environment carried out a comprehensive wooden project aimed at improving the physical conditions in the Wadden Sea waters. The project was supported by the EU and included interventions in the habitat areas Varde Å, Sneum Å, Ribe Å and Vidå. Scientists point out that cormorant causes at least 30%. of the mortality rate in adult pricks. During my predecessor, a revised management plan for cormorants was drawn up, including: provides for the possibility of granting regulatory permissions to fight the cormorant for the sake of the snake. There is therefore wide scope for regulating cormorants in areas where there are snakes. In 2016, the Danish EPA launched a small pilot breeding of the snow apple in collaboration with DTU AQUA and Denmark's Center for Vildlaks in Skjern. The breeding from the pilot farm was then postponed in Ribe Å in early April 2017. The aim of the pilot project was to test the possibilities for raising boobs and the results were immediately positive. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency has also concluded an agreement with Aarhus University on monitoring birthseeking cormorants in the Vidåsystem and also increases the monitoring efforts of the snake in the Wadden Sea watercourses. But the stock of boobs is still under pressure, and it takes a little more time before the importance of the stakes in the project for the stock of boobs can finally be evaluated. That is why we must also consider how future action should be organised, because it is important that we get action that works. Some of what the researchers are pointing to is a lack of knowledge, and we are therefore considering how any enhanced action can be carried out. I am not going to adopt a specific approach, so whether a gene bank is the right one, I cannot answer today. I can answer that we will protect the snake.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130337	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the questioner who is given a new opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130341	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. This is an immediate positive response, given that the Minister recognises a responsibility to save the highly endangered species. The Minister points to Varde Å as a habitat area for the snake, but the Minister is probably aware that the apple is extinct in Varde Å and today only exists in Vidåen. That says a little bit about how incredibly critical a situation we are facing. That is why it is also a good idea for the Minister to say that we have a responsibility. But I still get a little nervous on behalf of the schnapper, when the Minister does not want to lay down on what measures we are going to use, because we risk time running out for the schnapps; we risk it disappearing while we sit behind the desks in Copenhagen and philosophers what we are going to do. I feel that Niels Jepsen, a senior researcher at DTU AQUA, says that when there is a species that only exists in one stream, it is very vulnerable. One manure contamination, and it could be gone. It says something about the fact that we are extremely close to losing a species on Danish soil or in Danish water, which is actually more rare than the tiger. So we have a responsibility. That's why I'm worried about evaluations and good thoughts and philosophical work dragging on so long that we're actually losing our pinch. So I hope that the Minister will either have concrete instruments to which he can reveal them or, at least, an opportunity to open up the bag as to when we can see concrete instruments. Because we have spent millions on the apple in the projects presented by the Minister, but as I read the researchers, for example in the Jutland West Coast today, a gene bank could be set up for a few hundred thousand kroner. So can the Minister go into what we are really doing and can do quickly to save the apple?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130551	So the minister has 30 seconds to do that now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130554	Copy that. When I pulled on the smile tape before, it's because when you write the snab in Word, it's replaced by the snab, and it's given some a little funny associations in my reply paper. We're going to Christian Rabjerg Madsen's concern about the snake. As the questioner also says, we've spent millions on this. So we have to make sure we spend this money right, so make no mistake, my concern is quite real, but we need to know more about the biology of the apple. We need to know more about how it alleys and how it wanders. We simply do not know enough about that today. It can be said that there have been releases, which are, in fact, a variant of a gene bank which has been created without such a quite desired effect. So when I say that we want to learn more about this, it's so that we don't just risk making a feeding place for cormorants.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130650	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130653	The challenge of nesting and eviction is, of course, that we can probably take in the brood and make them grow in numbers, but when we put them out, they disappear. I am quite clear that we need to know more about why the apple disappears, otherwise it is all just a bad thing to spend money putting it out. But I have to keep the Minister on the point whether, in the middle of the talk of evaluation and good tactics in general, the Minister will lay down a deadline on himself and his work in relation to when the Minister is ready with concrete measures, because we are in fact in danger of talking the apple to death.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130730	I sure hope we're not gonna talk the prick to death. I hope that we will have some positive results with the experiments that we are actually doing at the moment, and I would very much like to provide an overview of what we are doing in concrete terms, what we are doing in the past. Because it is important that we do this properly and that we comply with our obligations under the Habitats Directive, but above all that we retain a special Danish species. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130803	It's the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130805	As I said at the outset, I note with satisfaction that the Minister seems to share my concerns. What I am not satisfied with is that we cannot get a deadline for when the Minister will do anything, according to senior researcher Niels Jepsen very clearly says that we are one manure contamination from extinction. So it's so urgent. I am aware that the Municipality of Varde has together and widely politically sent a request to the Minister and has asked for help. You propose, for example, that we apply for money from the Horizon programmes in the European Union. Are these some initiatives which the Minister welcomes and then perhaps one last chance for the Minister to point out in concrete terms when they intend to do something other than think about it and talk about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130851	I now spent a few minutes and, according to the President-in-Office of the Council, I also spent a little longer than that on telling us about the stakes we are already making and what we have already done. So it's not like I'm just sitting on my hands blowing balloons up thinking about what we can do about it. We are, of course, doing something already, and I have also promised to send a written follow-up to it. I am, in fact, open to all the initiatives that you might have, and especially in Varde Municipality, where you have this close to life and very much like to have the snap much closer to life. So I'm open to all wise suggestions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130927	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question, and it is actually with the same minister and the same question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130936	Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130937	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the mayor of Hedensted Municipality says that control of the aquaculture sector is too complex for municipalities to manage, that the aquaculture sector is not suitable for strong self-control and that, according to the mayor, control should therefore lie with the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024130957	The question here refers to an article in Politiken on 15 October this year, in which the mayor from Hedensted says, among other things, that the control of marine agriculture is too great a mouthful for the municipalities. The interview and the opinion stem from a specific case concerning the company Hjarnø Havbrug A/S, and here the police are currently investigating the company's possible breaches of environmental legislation. I believe that it is important to bear in mind that, as I know, this is a single marine activity which has been reported to the police. Even if Hjarnø Havbrug A/S has done something illegal, I think it would be a little generalising and something unreasonable to say that, overall, the municipalities cannot keep track of this. Nor have I heard any municipalities other than the municipality of Hedensted say that they are not capable of the task. I therefore believe that the approval and supervision of companies must be carried out in an effective way with the best competences. The municipalities play an important role as authority for most of the country's approx. Five thousand companies are subject to approval and, overall, they are doing a good job. The municipality is an environmental authority for companies that are at least as complex as sea farms and require high professional knowledge from the municipality, and I do not believe that there is any reason at this stage to depart from this general principle. As a starting point, I think it is important that aquaculture is not put differently from other types of polluting companies. The municipalities as well as the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, as the supervisory authority, must actively monitor the environmental aspects of the companies. It consists both of physical supervision and review of the company's own control. Self-control is set as a requirement in the company's environmental approval and takes place every day at the country's companies, and this is a cornerstone of the authorities' environmental oversight. This allows for the monitoring and follow-up of corporate emissions to e.g. water and air. In the case of aquaculture, such measures may include: The annual report shall be used as the basis for the examination of self-control. It may well be that improvements can be made in the way in which the own control of aquaculture is carried out, it may also be that there is scope for improvements to the environmental monitoring system, or that supervisory authorities should have access to more knowledge and guidance for carrying out marine surveillance within the applicable framework. I think that the need for this should be considered on an ongoing basis, and I am happy to do so. Decisions on changes to the rules must be based on an informed basis and not on individual cases. I would also like to say in more general terms that the Hjarnø Havbrug A/S case has led to a critical look at how the rules and their management have been in the last many years, and I have just asked the Attorney General to assist my ministry in reviewing the location permit of each farm so that we can have a complete overview of the status of the cases and the case so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131241	Hard questions require long answers, I understand. Minister for the Environment and Food Sorry). You have to be aware that you come back to it, so the opportunity offers itself. Now the questioner has the floor again. Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131251	Thank you. I think that the Minister's reply slightly neglects what the mayor of Hedensted Municipality, Kasper Glyngø, says. I think it is important to be aware that, at least freely after memory, Hedensted is probably the municipality in Denmark that supervises most marine farms, and that is why it should make a little more impression when the mayor says very clearly that the municipality does not manage the task, which I think Hjarnø is a very sad and very illustrative example of. What the Mayor of Hedensted, Kasper Glyngø, says is that when we are to supervise as a municipality, the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the Fisheries Directorate are both involved. This means that it will not be effective. Does the complexity of the control and complexity in this area, according to the fact that there are so many units inside, give rise to the Minister's considering taking a different approach? I would also like to address some of what the Minister says, namely that it is an individual problem which relates to Hjarnø Havbrug A/S. That is not quite right, because you read the coal excavation which the Minister has just completed a coal excavation which, moreover, has led the matter, as the Minister explained, to the end of the Chamber Attorney's office. You see that there are fairly marked problems with the aquaculture sector in terms of location permits and other matters. So I don't think we can ignore the mayor's statements. On the one hand, the municipality of Hedensted bears a great responsibility and, on the other hand, the Minister's own investigation shows that there are some problems which I think are more general than what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131450	Well, after I've asked the DA to look at this, of course, because there are some challenges. What I am saying in relation to the municipality of Hedensted and the approach to this is that in the municipalities, in general, there are a number of municipalities, and I would very much like to admit that this is a very complicated environmental oversight system, and that it is generally very well solved in the various municipalities, and that I have not heard other municipalities come up with a similar concern in relation to the sea farms as the one that the municipality of Hedensted brings here. When I note that it is tied to the challenges of one company's possible unlawfulness, then it is because it seems to be that kind of point in this and which has given rise to the mayor trying to throw the towel in the ring.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131540	I would like to ask the Minister about the investigation that is imminent, and it is not in any way to insinuate anything about other companies, that I say what I am saying now, but I cannot help but bear in mind that the case of Hjarnø Havbrug A/S, which has ended up in a police report and which is now a case of documented over-consumption, started with the fact that there was a mess with location permits and environmental permits. What we see now, when we look at the marine sector more generally, is that there are problems with environmental permits and problems with location permits. Will the Minister promise here today that the forthcoming study by the Attorney-General will also deal with the issues which were found to be regrettable and potentially illegal in Hjarnø regarding overproduction, concerning environmental permits? So, in plain English, does the DA's investigation all around this problem, according to what we have seen is the problem in Hjarnø?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131639	As I announced before last week, when some took autumn holidays, I have asked the DA to look at the challenges that have been facing location permits, and that is the definition of the task that I have given to the DA so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131655	The questioner, for the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131657	I simply find this difficult to understand the only thing the Minister finds interesting to study in the industry, because the location permit is a tiny part of this. Well, what we're seeing now is massive problems with the location license. In addition, the Minister's own investigation shows that 10 out of 19 marine farms are regulated after ancient permits, which should have been renewed a long time ago. In other words, it is now the case that the monitoring of whether a sea farm emits more nitrogen and phosphorus than permitted is based on the reporting by marine farmers of their feed consumption and on how many kilograms of fish they produce. Nevertheless, in the period from 2013 to 2017, only one municipality has checked whether supporting documents and invoices for the purchase of feed are consistent with the feed consumption reported by a sea farm. How can it be when we see that there are such massive problems in Hjarnø, and when we see problems with both environmental permits and with location permits, when we scratch the surface, that the Minister does not take greater responsibility and ensures that the investigation by the Minister himself is more profound in relation to the problem? Otherwise, I simply think it is a sin of omission.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131803	Oh, my God! What I have asked the Attorney General for, and I can repeat this, is to look at the location permits, because that was where we immediately identified the biggest problem. And as the questioner also indicates, well then there has been • now I say it rather directly • other challenges in this area. There are other areas we need to look at. That's also why we've had a coal excavation of the area. There are challenges about this. First of all, we are looking at the location permits. There will certainly also be other things that we will have the opportunity to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131838	With that, we thank the questioner. We will then keep the Minister on the line for a while, because there is a new question for the Minister for the Environment and Food, and that is by Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131851	Simon Kollerup now has the floor for the reading of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131852	Thank you for that, President. And the question is: Does the Minister believe that the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority's travel team provided a satisfactory response to the Jelex Seafood case?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024131905	It is quite tempting to reply very, very briefly to that question, but I would like to take advantage of the speaking time. It was because of a human error at the Danish Food Authority that the notification was allowed to be as long as it did, and I regret that. It was also a mistake that the Danish Food Authority did not contact the notifier before the verification visit for further comments. And that is certainly not satisfactory; we hardly have two different opinions on that. Having said that, it is also important to stress that it is often difficult to find traces and evidence of unlawfulness if companies of all power want to break the law and want to drive under the radar. At first check, the Danish Food Authority had two men at the factory for 41⁄2 hours, and the next time they had two men at the factory for 3 hours and 15 minutes at the follow-up check. Unfortunately, at that time, the six false documents which had been sent from the factory since January were not found. The Danish Food Authority could only find the true analysis report, the commercial documents of the party concerned and a copy of labels which correctly indicated that the lot should be heat treated. I would have loved to have seen that the FDA had found the forged documents somewhat faster. But sometimes we also have to recognise that some crimes are difficult to solve, and I am so sensitive to the fact that there was a breakthrough in the investigation and that it came, partly because there was an important tip in the FDA, partly because the FDA's travel team has both investigators and IT experts who were persistent and kept digging until they found the false documents. But of course: No, it is not satisfactory that these reviews are not reacted quickly enough. But I'm very pleased that the FDA finally solved this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132059	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. I can then say that I am pleased that the Minister is not satisfied with the way in which the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority's travel team has handled this matter. It is, of course, partly a question of simply not responding in the first place to an inquiry which runs into the month of March, I think, on the one hand, what I think is quite serious is that when a whistleblower arrives on the track, that is to say, a person who is employed in the company in question, and takes a specific and, I understand, quite precise contact with the FDA about what is wrong, namely forgery of listria certificates on lots sold to another country, yes, it is of course not satisfactory that there is no contact with Karin Silva, I think she is called, as in this case was the whistleblower. So that is not satisfactory, and I hope there are, and on which the Minister says no two opinions. What I would like to ask as the follow-up question is, of course, what initiatives the Minister has taken with regard to the FDA in this particular case. I am fully aware that we have today reached a good food settlement, food reconciliation 4, and I would also like to sign up to the Minister personally for a way of conducting the negotiations so that it became a broad settlement, but what initiatives has the Minister taken with the Food Authority in the specific case of Jelex Seafood?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132232	Let me just start by agreeing with the enthusiasm for a broad food agreement today, when all the parties of the Danish Parliament have come together to ensure and improve food safety in Denmark. I think it has been an extremely good process characterised by intelligent, insightful and genuine drive to do something that is good and that improves this. In relation to the question, I would say that if we talk about staff consequences or such things, that is something I leave to the Director of the Food Agency. I have not had any people on the carpet other than those we have taken together in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132308	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132308-2	It was not now because I was specifically fishing for the consequences of staffing, but it might well have been that guidelines or other things had been drawn up in relation to the specific case, once one had become aware of it. Being a whistleblower is a serious thing; it is, we could see in the broadcast, something where you get the pulse up and get nervous about whether you get fired. It's actually kind of crazy to report your own boss. Can the Minister not confirm that, with the food agreement we have now concluded, a whistleblower will, as a general rule, trigger a verification visit and that the whistleblower will have to be contacted if a whistleblower is to be sent out for inspection on the basis of a whistleblower?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132351-2	That is absolutely correct, and these are some of the improvements that we have made here. And one can say that there is of course also an incision to my board, that is to say this by saying that when you are contacted by a whistleblower and if the person is not anonymous, the whistleblower must be contacted. And so the starting point is that you have to follow up with an inspection visit. I also say this with whom I sense the questioner also has the utmost respect for those people who dare to put their own work to the benefit of all of us's food safety. I have an extraordinary respect for that, and I think that we have also been reflected in our conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132433	Last round to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132434	Thank you. And, of course, it is so good that we can jointly make the effort that perhaps should have fallen earlier. Nevertheless, it is good that it is directed towards the Danish Food Authority that you should contact the people who move out there and become whistleblowers. On previous occasions I have not concealed the fact that it has been disappointing to find out that the Ministry has been aware of these cases while we have been sitting and negotiating food reconciliation 4 without us being informed of what was coming. And that is why my last question is, of course, whether the Minister is aware of other cases where specific whistleblowers have not been contacted in the course of follow-up inspections.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132518	I am not aware of cases where there has been contact with whistleblowers and which have not been followed up. Having said that, I also have to say that there are many cases under the auspices of the FDA. There are many reviews, there are many visits, many verification visits, fortunately. I am quite happy about that, because it benefits our food safety. I can also assure you, sir. Simon Kollerup said that the discussion we had last night, which was about the lack of information for the parties to the conciliation, has been followed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132557	With that, we thank the Minister and we thank him. Simon Kollerup. Then we move on to a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132612	Thank you. As the Iranian preacher's regime continues to demand that Denmark crack down on terror, will the Foreign Minister admit that the priestly regime itself supports terrorism inside and outside Iran, and will this have consequences for the Danish relationship with the regime in Tehran?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132625	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132628	Thank you to the questioner for asking the question. As I have stressed on several occasions, of course I am also concerned about Iran's destabilising behaviour in the region and in general. Denmark has long supported the fact that we in the European Union are taking it up with Iran. I am therefore pleased that there is now ongoing dialogue on this issue between Iran and the European Union, the UK, Germany, France and Italy. It is well known that the Iranian regime has close relations with the Hezbollah movement, whose military arm is on the EU's terrorist list. And we're not naive when it comes to Iran. When we support the nuclear agreement with Iran, it is because it is essential for our security, but we are, of course, at the same time critical of Iran's behaviour, and this behaviour already has major implications for our relations with that country both politically and diplomaticly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132721	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132722	Thank you for your answer. We also support the maintenance of the nuclear agreement with Iran in the Social Democratic Party. I would just like to ask whether it is not correctly understood that Iran itself supports terrorism and that it is not only Hezbollah and Hamas who say that the state of Israel must be wiped out. It is terrorism if a state that is very busy with Denmark housing terrorists, sponsoring and supporting terrorism both inside and outside Iran, will the Foreign Minister not agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132748	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132749	I think I was very clear in my first answer, among other things. by stressing that it is widely recognised that there are close links between Hezbollah and the Iranian regime. As far as the intelligence assessment is concerned, it can be said that possible links between Iran and terrorist-destinated groups or persons are outside the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132812	That is why the Foreign Minister can say whether it is not true that they are hanging homosexuals in cranes in Iran and that they are torturing people. This can be read in several human rights reports. I guess it's terrorism. Why is it so difficult for the Foreign Minister to say that what Iran itself is practicing in and outside Iran is terrorism? This is terrorism against the civilian population. One is so busy with what Denmark is doing and which opposition groups from Iran are here, and there are quite a lot of exilans in Denmark. Do they have to put up with a regime that uses terrorism in this way and that is running around telling us what to do in Denmark? Should Iran go around telling us what to do in relation to this when they themselves use terrorist methods?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132847	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132848	Now I don't think this needs to develop into another one of those examples of us bringing up a conflict that doesn't exist. I have, of course, made it clear in my first reply, and I think the questioner also heard this, that recognition of the problematic aspects of which Iran is a part. That is why we support the dialogue that is now in place in order to get closer to it and to get rid of it. No human being should stand up to either human rights violations or terrorist-related actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132921	Then it is the final round to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132922	In fact, I believe that what is happening in Iran is terrorism, but leave it at that. There are a number of exiles living in Denmark, and I think Iran would like many of them to be extradited. Is it the case that they should fear being labeled terrorists by the Iranian regime? We know they've murdered people they don't like in other countries before. They've sent agents out, and they've assassinated people who've actually just used their democratic rights. Should you be afraid of that? In other words, should indigenous Iraqis be afraid to be sent to Iran because the Danish Government believes in the Iranian allegations that we should house opposition terrorist groups in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132958	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024132958-2	That question is simply too hypothetical in relation to reality. We are not sending people from Denmark who are at risk of returning to a death penalty or anything else. The questioner knows that very well. We are dealing with the international rules that exist, and we are complying with them from the Danish side to the letter. Anything else would be a breach of Danish politics, which neither this nor the previous government would expose itself to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133025	Thank you very much, Minister. We go further, but keep the same minister on the field and also the same question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133036	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133037	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure that one can continue to visit the Saudi Embassy in Copenhagen and get out again in the same physical condition as when one came in?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133045	The Saudi ambassador was actually visiting my ministry today, and one of the things that we pointed out is, of course, that it is totally unacceptable what we have seen witnessing in relation to the Saudi consulate in Turkey. I have therefore answered the question as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133113	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133113-2	Have I understood correctly from the Minister that it took a quite long time for the Minister to convene the Saudi Ambassador, in relation to how long it has been since it came forward? Now we have had many different explanations from the Saudi Government. First it was that the reporter himself had gone out, then it was that they had been in a fight, and now he is so dead. Then I understand from the Foreign Minister that it is after Erdogan gives his speech, that is to say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is waiting until Erdogan has said something, in relation to calling this ambassador. Is that correct? Because we are talking about an Erdogan who has imprisoned more than 100 journalists himself, has he suddenly become a credibility witness to the legal certainty of journalists?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133147	Sometimes the world is almost unreasonable with the Minister for Foreign Affairs at all times. In this case, I am now being criticised for doing something that I do not think other countries have done, namely to take the drastic step of calling an ambassador for an interview. Now it's so problematic when I did it. Well, I've done it before everyone else, but now it's so problematic about the time course itself. Denmark has been very clear in this matter. We have made it clear that we are not taking part in the investment conference; we have called the ambassador for an interview; and we are in the process of coordinating what may be further action in relation to the specific case, together with our allies. It is very difficult to find a crack in this, and whatever the questioner is trying to do, I think it would be difficult if we saw a repetition with a Social Democratic minister sitting in my chair, to see that something different had taken place at least not faster than what I have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133240-2	If we now have the most competent Minister of Foreign Affairs ever, perhaps something could have been expected to happen sooner. I cannot know what other Socialist ministers had done; I just note that the Foreign Minister himself said that it was after Erdogan's speech that he called the ambassador. But leave it alone. So may I ask you about this meeting, about whether you've talked about other things going on in Saudi Arabia than just this journalism killing? It is not because it is rare that Saudi Arabia suppresses human rights and murders people they do not like. Was it also part of the Minister's conversation with the Saudi Ambassador?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133309-2	At any rate, I note that what has happened here is very competently handled. It is not necessarily because of the Minister, but perhaps among other things. because he sits at the top of a very competent house with skilled employees, and we should all be glad that is the case, regardless of who is the minister. We've had a very good and critical conversation with the Saudi ambassador. As far as I am aware, there are no other countries that have taken that step, and in this respect we have drawn attention to what are Danish values and what Denmark stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133343	The questioner for the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133344	Should I understand that the Minister has received a satisfactory response from Saudi Arabia, which means that any critic of the Saudi regime will be able to go in and out of the embassy? Because what has happened is quite serious. We also have critics of the Saudi regime that lives in Denmark. The minister thinks it has been a satisfactory conversation, and I hope that the Saudi Embassy can be visited safely in Copenhagen. Is this how I should understand it and how people have also talked about things other than this reporter's killing, in relation to what is going on with atrocities in Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133415	I would like to say two things. Firstly, the rights and duties of embassies are inter alia. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). That convention means that the territory of the embassy is inviolable, but that the embassy area is not part of the territory of the Sending State and that it is therefore Danish law that must be respected. That is one of the points we have made. In addition, I think it might be on the edge of the edge, given how serious this situation is, to ask questions like what has been asked here today about what we are going to do to ensure that people get back out whole. It almost tends to turn what has happened into a joke. What has happened is deeply serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133458	With that, we thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and thank the honourable Member. We move on to a question to the Minister for Finance, and that is by Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, the Social Democratic Party, who is now being given the floor to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133511	Thank you. Is it the Minister's view that in future stockholders, bus drivers and truck drivers will have to fight for jobs with foreigners outside the EU's borders, which according to 3F will be the consequence of government plans to open up more foreign labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133529	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133530	The reason for this is that we're in a boom. It is actually quite positive. Since the 2015 elections, around 150,000 more people have come in private employment in Denmark, and we can see a large number of areas where companies have an ever-increasing need for labour, but cannot get the labour they want. There are more and more companies talking about the difficulty of getting the right workforce, and the questioner himself has also been promoting and recognising that in a number of areas there is a shortage of labour at the moment. The first and best way to solve the labour shortage is, of course, to get the unemployed Danes to work. I believe that both the questioner and I believe that the Danes who can work should also work, and if we can do more to help them into work, let us do so. But we also know that in a global world there is sometimes also a need for other competences than the Danish ones. Sometimes there is also the possibility of being able to draw in other nations, which is why the government has made a number of suggestions to make it possible to get more people to come to Denmark and work. There are two reasons for this. We know that this will help create growth and prosperity in a country if more people work. One can basically say that the prosperity of a country is how wise one works and how much one works. And in Denmark, wisdom, i.e. productivity, is the creation of value per year. hours of work, really high, but we have the problem that a number of companies cannot get as much labour as they want. That's why we need more people to come and work. We have then proposed that from a number of countries with which Denmark has close economic cooperation already, it should be easier to get here on the so-called money system. We propose this because, among other things, we can see that the people on the current system of payments are also those who want to come in with the proposal we have put forward are a positive contribution, not only to companies but also to public funds. They have thus helped to create a surplus. The amount system that we have today, the people who work through the system of amounts in Denmark, actually creates a surplus in public funds of 1.4 billion. kr. I have many wishes for things that I could use more money for, in the public sector, so if it is possible to get more people into the money system to contribute, among other things. to the public purses, it will make it easier for us. And that is why we want to make it easier for companies to attract foreign labour • also foreign labour, which has a slightly lower pay framework than the one that is the limit today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133751	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133753	I have no problem with making it easy for a company to have a foreign engineer, for example. a civil engineer from Canada, to Denmark, because he may have some specific skills that may be beneficial for, for example, an export company. This makes perfect sense, and you can do so within the current limit. And I guess it just makes it clear that one of the reasons why there is quite a nice revenue from the foreign employees, of which there are quite a lot in Denmark, is that they are highly competent and very highly qualified employees who are paid a very high salary. That is why I am very quietly surprised that the government is proposing such a drastic measure as the one that is being proposed, where the limit on the amount is being reduced to an amount that is significantly below what, for example, a chemical engineer should earn. And when, in my question, I point out just some of these working groups, such as this one. bus drivers, warehouse workers and truck drivers, that is because the limit proposed by the government will allow people to be recruited in those areas, i.e. because they have an average salary that lies all the way down there. So I would like first of all to ask the simple question: why? Is it because the government does not think it is possible to train unemployed Danes for example? Getting a job in a warehouse or getting a truck certificate? I think that is quite difficult to imagine. Secondly, I would actually just like to ask the Minister to confirm that such a typical chemical engineer, whom I think both the Minister and I are concerned with, earns DKK 62 000. On average per month, and that the threshold for third countries now stands at approx. $5,000. a month.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024133957	I regret that my knowledge of facts is not sufficient to know exactly what a chemical engineer is earning, but I believe that the questioner has examined it and that it is probably very right. When, among other things, we get to know each other. points out that there is a need to look wider than exactly after the chemical engineers, among other things, because we can see that the unemployment rate among the members of 3F's fund has fallen by a third since 2015; we can see that demand for certain types of employees is significantly increasing. Now you cannot see it so directly for truck drivers and bus workers, but with regard to what is known as land transport companies, the proportion of companies experiencing production restrictions due to labour shortages has increased from approx. 5% in 2015 until now over 25%. in 2018. So we are actually seeing some companies saying: we are having difficulty getting the growth we could otherwise have had because we have a shortage of labour. I think it is quite obvious, as the questioner also says, that some more Danes should be trained. That is why we have increased continuing training in a tripartite agreement where we spend an additional 2.4 billion. kr. In order to train unemployed Danes, people who are outside the labour market, or even people who are on the labour market, so that they can have the qualities and competences that make them part of the labour market, also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134110	Exciting subject, but there will be more opportunities to respond, perhaps even within the time frame. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134116	But Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Well, it doesn't just seem like crossing the river for water, but it does seem like going around the other side of the earth, considering that after all, there may be unemployed people not with the driver's license in place, but at least unemployed people who would be able to go in and do that job.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134156	Well, I didn't ask about a truck driver and a bus driver. It is in this way the questioner who has brought out precisely those professional groups. I can only note that there is an increasing proportion of companies reporting a shortage of labour. And then I am glad that this government has succeeded in conducting a successful trialogue, unlike the previous government, which never led the social partners to take co-responsibility for the major decisions. Through the agreement we have made, with a further 2.4 billion. kr. In terms of continuing training and competence raising, we are actually given far more Danes the opportunity to have the skills that make them an attractive labour force in the labour market, also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134233	Last round to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134235	No, but on the other hand, it is the current government, and hence the Minister of Finance, who has proposed a limit on the amount, which is reduced very significantly, corresponding to the fact that if a pension is cleared, an hourly wage of approx. 145 kr. It's an hour. And I assume that the Minister here will confirm that approx. 145 kr. This is an amount which includes not only skilled labour but also unskilled labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134307	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134310	It is the case that we have proposed an amount limit which allows more people to come here. That's right. We can also see that when more come to the limit, it actually helps to slightly increase the wages of the Danes who are in the same area. The myth that some people are running around with is that more people here on the limit will be wage-pressing. The experience with the limit we currently have is in fact that it is either neutral or slightly positive. This is among other things. The Economic Council, which has come to this conclusion, and researchers from the University of Copenhagen have pointed out something similar. On top of that it must be added that it helps to create a greater cash flow into the public funds, that is to say it is possible to do more of the things we want to do in terms of welfare, investment, infrastructure or other, if that is how we get more people to work in Denmark. I think, as I started by saying, that the best thing is for the unemployed Danes to get to work, but we have a common interest in the Danish companies that want to grow, do not experience that it is a shortage of labour that makes their growth have to go abroad instead of in Denmark for the benefit of Danish jobs and for the benefit of the Danish Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134416	With that, we thank the Minister for Finance. We move on to the next issue, which is for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. It's the same question, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134426	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134427	Does the Minister agree that foreign labour continues to find employment in Denmark and that there has not been a decrease in the influx of foreign labour following the removal of the greencard scheme and the change in the threshold by mid-2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134444	I am pleased with the question because there is well a prerequisite for recognition of the need for foreign labour in Denmark in order to maintain the pace of the Danish economy. It is true that if we are to continue to prosper in Denmark, to continue to grow, to continue to have more wealth, then companies must also be able to have access to the labour they need, so that more people are helping to boost growth and, incidentally, more people who are helping to take on the huge tax burden that is also in this society. We are in a situation where we have to go back to 2008 to find a lower percentage of unemployment. We're under 4%. in unemployment rates, and that is why it is so important that we look at where we can get labour from. Here, of course, I recognise the premise on the issue of foreign affairs being a good idea. I think, however, that the questioner has looked at the figures a little too fleetingly, if you may put it that way. One cannot just look at it overall and say that when there is an increasing proportion of people coming from abroad and working here, everything is in the best order, because it has to be compared to increasing pressure on companies, who report in and say that you can see that there are increasingly problems in obtaining qualified labour. So you can't just look at the snapshot and say, "Okay, then everything must be good." More is needed, and that is why the government has taken initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134618	So what I hear the Minister say is that yes, it is true, there has not been a fall in the influx of foreign labour after the removal of the greencard scheme and after an increase in the amount limit in 2016. It's a wonderful thing to get confirmation, that is, that it hasn't had any effect on it. That is all the more reason why it does not appear to be any problem with the rules available to the labour market as they are today, even if we think that it is appropriate to attract highly qualified foreign workers. On the contrary, it stresses all the more that wage dumping is prevented and avoided, so that it is not low-paid labour coming from third countries. And it is, of course, positive that the Minister can thus confirm that it was a sensible and good intervention by a majority in the Folketing outside the government in 2016. I must say that I cannot help but touch briefly on the fact that the government also has a proposal to lower the limit of the amount again, not only for what it was in the past, but for an even lower amount, which will also include groups of competence which are much wider than, for example, chemical engineers, professors, computer scientists or whatever, but will also include both skilled and unskilled workers. The latter part in particular worries me a great deal in relative terms, because I cannot help thinking that it is precisely about wage printing. However, can I not just ask the Minister to confirm that, as it is today and with the amount system, there is really no problem in attracting, for example, a chemical engineer from, for example, the United Kingdom? Canada or the United States to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134822	This was quite a rhetorical cliché which the author of the question threw himself into, and unfortunately neither politically nor economically nor factually were landed again. The point is that it is not possible to establish whether there had been more, that is to say even more, if the rules in question had been maintained. That is why we cannot see or conclude, as the author does. What we can say is that we can see that there is increased demand in companies for labour, which means that the pressure is increasing, and we can see that there is the problem that in some of the Eastern European countries there are not so many more people who want to come and work here, there is not the same increase as there has been in the past, and that means that we need to look wider, and that means that there is a greater need. The Socialist Group in the European Parliament obviously has no answer to that, and that is the pity of this debate: the only people who have relevant answers, namely the government, instead of getting into the fight, participate in the political discussion and see how we solve the challenges that Denmark faces, so that Denmark can also have as strong an economy as possible in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024134933	It is very strange that one should hear such a word here, given that the government's own calculations, which have by the way been criticized by the Danish Industry earlier today, show that very few people will be able to be attracted by such an amount scheme. So I really think that the government should take and agree with itself whether it is a few hundred people you will be able to get into this or whether it is really something that will save the Danish economy. Well, you can't mean both things at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135005	After all, we have a Social Democrat who claims that they are interested in taking over the power of government in this country, but who unfortunately does not have a serious economic policy to present to the Danes. That is our problem. Our problem is that the Social Democratic Party has not been interested in making any of the initiatives that could significantly increase labour supply in this country. What we then say is: if we cannot do it domestic, we must do it foreign. That is why we are making a proposal on how to attract additional foreign labour. I hope, then, that this can have an even greater effect than it has in the model calculations of the Ministry of Finance, and I will therefore be open to opening up even more than is proposed in the proposal made by the government. We were just trying to make a small proposal, so that it might also be of interest to the Social Democratic Party to take just a minimum of responsibility for the recovery of the Danish economy and the growth of the Danish economy to be dragged out for a longer period than would otherwise have been the case. The point is: We need you to take responsibility, and there has been no interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135106	Then it's the questioner for the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135107	And I miss a government that takes responsibility for the Danish labour market and ensures that unemployed Danes have access to the labour market, and not least remembers that we do not want a society where wage dumping is done. And I just have to remind the Minister of the fact that I think it's been a very long time since the Minister has tried to have such a real job that with 145 kr. We are not talking about highly trained workers in the hour, which is what the government is proposing to impose as a limit on the amount of money. They are both skilled and unskilled workers, for example a warehouse worker.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135152	I am sorry to the questioner that I was elected in a parliamentary election earlier than the questioner, and I must then take that on my cape said in relation to the opening remarks. What is there is that we are in a good situation. We are in a situation where unemployment is below 4%. There have never been as many people in employment as there are now. It's going really well. A responsible economic policy is to be thanked for this, primarily by the VK governments from 2001 to 2011 and then again by the current bourgeois government and from 2015 onwards. We shall be delighted about this. What we need is for companies to be able to get the manpower to ensure that growth in Denmark can continue. We have put forward some concrete proposals on how to obtain more foreign labour. That is what is needed, and that is the answer to Mr Seligman's question. Benny Engelbrecht's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135235	With this, we thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and we thank the honourable Member. We move on to questions to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate from Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135248	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135250	Thank you. The question is: why does the Minister in the debate on DR2 say that in the agricultural sector there is basically nothing else to do than shoot the cows in order to reduce the climate load when experts to the government have documented that there are a number of other effective methods?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135309	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel for the question. If we look at the proportions, more than half of agricultural greenhouse gas emissions come from manure and the digestion of animals. The remainder comes in particular from emissions from the use of fertilisers. P.t. We do not have any fully developed solutions that can seriously reduce these emissions, other than moving production out of Denmark. That report, sir. In fact, Jens Joel mentions this as the reason for his question. I would like to make a few comments on this subject. For more than one third of the measures analysed, the documentation is so inadequate that we cannot count the climate effect in our national inventory; for some of the measures, there may be negative effects on nature and drinking water, which, according to the report, should be clarified before their possible use is disseminated; one of the measures may increase the nitrate content of milk, which may potentially pose a health risk; most of the methods which do not require further evidence of climate, nature and health effects are already used to a greater or lesser extent. Thus, in my view, the report shows that, just as the government is proposing, further research is needed if we are to reduce agricultural emissions further to a greater extent without moving production out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135433	Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135434	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the preliminary reply. Unfortunately, it is well known that a few times before this government has chosen to keep its hands on agriculture, including at the expense of the environment, for example with the agricultural package. One could get the assumption that this was about allowing the climate to pay the bill that the government will not embark on the transformation that agriculture also has to undergo. There is no doubt that Danish agriculture is quite CO2 and, frankly, I think that the Minister either lacks insight into the means of action that exist or speaks against better knowledge and misleads if the Minister gives the impression that there is nothing that can be done in agriculture. You inevitably get the suspicion that it is because you would rather do nothing and postpone the problems until later than get started with the necessary change. In other words, the report to which the Minister also refers mentions a number of specific points. The minister himself mentioned the digestion of the animals. It says, for example, that something can be done in relation to the composition of feed. There are already methods that are already results. Of course we can do research, but shouldn't we get started? Before we went in here, I took such a google search where I just searched for CO2 The first results that come out on such a simple google search are that one can reduce CO2 to collect the milk boxes. This does not mean that production is moved out of the country. You can create a lower load from the cartons you use for milk. There are plenty of opportunities, there are plenty of low-hanging fruits, and what is the problem is that the government does not want to put this in order, that the government does not want to address the conversion of agriculture. And it can be said that the government is in fact lagging behind many of the players in this area, because they are doing so on their own. That is why I ask again: why is it that the Minister is in a debate on national television and gives the Danes the impression that if you are going to do something about the climate in relation to agriculture, you have to shoot cows? That's misleading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135639	Thank you for the question, and thank you also for the questioner for recognising that much has actually happened in Danish agriculture in terms of reducing emissions. Since 1990, emissions have fallen by between 17 and 20 per cent. However, if we really are to succeed and if something significant is to be done in terms of reducing emissions, it is not enough to collect milk cartons. Then something really needs to be done. And if something is to be done, it is absolutely crucial that we have the right basis on which to do so, and that is why, in the government's climate action, we set aside 90 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Because if something really needs to be done and really big reductions are needed, then we need to be smarter. The report to which the honourable Member refers does not, in fact, indicate those tools. On the contrary, it actually shows that there are a large number of challenges if you choose to go in and reduce, for example, the amount of livestock.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135741	Well, I have to maintain that that report also says that there is potential, i.e. accumulated 14 million tonnes by 2030. I ask again, the Minister himself mentioned this: can anything be done in the field of animal feed? Yes, you can. Do you already know what to do? Yeah, you know that. Shouldn't we get started on that? You can do that at the same time as researching what else is going to happen. The minister himself mentions the fertiliser as a challenge. The laughter gas from there is 9 percent. of the total greenhouse gas emissions of agriculture. So I would like to hear: is it true that the Minister does not believe that there is anything we can do at this stage in relation to agriculture other than shoot the animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135829	Well, of course we can do something, and it's done. I note that the agricultural industry itself is making a massive effort, and we must, of course, support that, all that we can do at all. There have, of course, also been initiatives in the past, along with the author's party, among others. on the question of the removal of low-level soils and the like. There are measures, of course there are measures, but if we really have to do something, we need to get smarter. In a number of other areas in the non-quota area, for example: If we want to do something more to generate more renewable energy and reduce energy consumption in the energy sector, then we can buy a wind turbine or an electric car. And it has to be said that, in the area of food, there are no such solutions for which there is a great effect. That is why we need to get smarter, and that is why we choose to allocate some money to research in this area, so that we do not just pursue a policy and that is what I described with the perhaps a little harsh headline that I myself have contributed to, to shoot the animals. It is no use just moving agricultural production abroad. If you go in and just, as some would like I say not that the questioner will necessarily choose to want to reduce the number of cattle, then the only result of it is just that we move exports out of Denmark, that we move cattle out of Denmark, that we move agricultural production out of Denmark, and that we increase CO2 unit than it is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135951	Thank you. Then it's the questioner for the final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024135953	That is precisely why the Social Democrats also do not want to move production somewhere else, where it benefits the climate less or where it harms more. But the truth is that business and Danish agriculture are far ahead of this government in terms of actually getting started. What we are asking of a responsible government is to put that work in a system; to invite agriculture in and ensure that the good experiences that exist in some places are transferred to other places; to address the climate challenge. The Minister cannot help saying that we are not entirely in line with what needs to be done in 10 and 20 years' time, and that is why we must do nothing. We must, of course, do everything we can to reduce the climate impact of agriculture as well. This must be done now, and we cannot excuse ourselves by indulging in the debate and saying that we have to shoot cows or move production. It is simply irresponsible to get started with the climate change we are about to embark on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140045	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140046	Thank you for the question. I would say that it would be irresponsible simply to go in and make demands on food production which it would not be possible to meet without risking moving production out of the country. And I would like to follow up on what the questioner is asking, namely whether it is not important that there should also be cooperation with the agricultural industry on these matters. I agree with that very much, and that is also why it is part of the climate scenario that we need to create partnerships with agriculture and with the food industry to discuss it with them, to come up with new ideas and good creative initiatives. And there are certainly a number of points that the Social Democrats have also pointed out, which can be done in a good partnership with agriculture to find the right solutions, so that we maintain exports of up to 170 billion. kr. and the many people employed in this area, while at the same time ensuring that we do something about reducing the CO2 emissions of the food industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140138	Thanks to both the minister and the questioner for that question. We'll keep the minister on the field and also the same questioner. It's still gone to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate from Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140148	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140151	The question is: is the Prime Minister's statement that by 2030 more than one million electric, hydrogen and hybrid cars and other low-emission vehicles will be driven on the roads, a political objective that the government has undertaken to follow up and ensure the realisation of through necessary political initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140209	Thank you for the question. The aim of the government's climate and air emissions is that the latest traditional petrol and diesel passenger car is registered in 2030 and that from 2035 no new plug-in hybrid vehicles are sold either. As the project shows, the goal of stopping the sale of new petrol and diesel cars from 2030 means that by 2030 there may be over 1 million electric cars, plug-in hybrid cars or similar green cars in Denmark. The government's objectives are very ambitious and not without challenges. We are totally dependent on technology development moving faster. That is why, in line with the governments of other ambitious countries, the government has sent a clear signal to the car industry and the rest of the world that we want cleaner cars on the roads. The government is pushing massively to promote technological development through the EU. The government is working in the ongoing negotiations with the European Parliament targeted for such ambitious CO2 At the same time, the government, together with like-minded countries, will press for a plan for phasing out petrol and diesel cars in the European Union. At home, the government is launching a series of initiatives on the short track to promote the spread of green cars. This concerns, among other things: on lighter taxation, the establishment of more and faster charging stations for electric cars, better parking facilities for, benefits for and demands for green taxis. In addition, the government is setting up a commission to propose an overall strategy for the conversion of the transport sector. The results of the work of the Commission shall form the basis for further action after 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140353	Thank you. Thank you for your reply immediately. When the Prime Minister opened the Folketing, I think we were many who were positively surprised that the government which has now for three years made it cheaper to buy old-fashioned petrol and diesel cars had suddenly begun to focus on electric cars. Therefore, we were also very pleased with the signal from the Prime Minister that now there should be one million of the green cars by 2030. When you read this play that came a week later, and you could get the idea that there was a reason it didn't come a week later, because then the Prime Minister had, like, got all the headlines that he wanted to secure a million green cars, then it says that it could mean that there can well, so it's not a goal. It's not something you can count on. It is not a clear signal to the car industry that the government will ensure that there are one million green cars that it is just a guess. Or how is this supposed to be understood? That is what is at the heart of political life. We have to understand whether the government will actually commit itself to setting this thing in motion or whether it is just a guess of how many people think there will be when the car industry is otherwise allowed to do as it pleases. So the question is again: without all the other goals that the government may have, the goal of a million green cars by 2030 is something the government is politically committed to, or is it a guess of what you think will happen, no matter what the government does?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140516	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140517	Thank you for the question. This is an objective that we want to work towards, but it is also clear that we are dependent on some things. First of all, we are dependent on the development of technology in this area, i.e. car manufacturers are starting to produce cars that are a little more efficient than those we know now, not least in terms of the performance of batteries, and that we are doing something about the fact that the price of electric cars is also coming down. At home we will then set up this Transport Commission, which will propose what we can do at home. We're negotiating, and I expect we'll both be meeting at the tax minister to discuss how we'll hopefully find a solution about the registration fee for 2019 and 2020. There are questions about the possibility that electric cars can drive in the bus lane and park etc, to make it attractive for owners of electric cars. Well, there are many different approaches, and I would also very much believe and expect that further action will also be needed up to 2030 in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140619	After all, the minister is right that we are on our way to the Treasury to negotiate electric cars, but the truth is that it is also 1%. of the target of the million green cars. You don't even expect 10,000 to come, but that's just the ceiling you set. If the Minister then says that one wants to work hard for it, then it is again such a slightly soft formulation. I believe that the car industry needs to know whether to take political initiatives to ensure that a million green cars are put on the roads or not? It's kind of just that. Will this be ensured through political initiatives? We do not know what kind of technology it is yet to be, because we do not know how technology develops, but do we want to ensure it, or do we not want to ensure it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140710	As I said before, there are many factors involved, including the development of technology. But with this, a clear and clear signal has been sent to the car industry not only from Denmark but also from a number of other European countries that you want low-emission cars, electric cars, hybrid cars, cars that drive on biofuels, and in general cars with low energy consumption. I think it is important that we send out the clear and clear signal. Then it is clear that there will then be a need to constantly assess and adjust this effort, but whatever we do in Denmark, I don't think we're going to drive the development of this. We can put pressure on the car industry, and we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140749	But with all due respect: I agree that we must put pressure on and that we must drive this forward, but it is certainly not a clear signal that for a week we are drawing headlines on the idea of securing a million cars. Then the papers come from the government, and it says that you're guessing there might be a million cars. I guess that's a slightly different signal. And that is why it is not going to change the fact that when the government, with its proposals so far, presented this proposal, guarantees 1,000 extra cars compared to what would otherwise have happened, there is a very long way to go for that million. That is why the car industry needs to know whether it is an objective that they can count on or whether it is not an objective that they can count on. The Prime Minister was great in the battle and made it a goal. After he has got his headlines, it has been a little difficult to get the government's commitment that it will actually become a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140837	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140838	For me, it's a clear signal. It shows that we have a very, very visionary government that wants to do this and that sets a clear goal. But it is also clear that such an objective is not achieved without the constant need for action to be taken in relation to it. And then, as I said before, you are deeply dependent on the development of technology, because without it there is much that does not succeed. Fortunately, we have seen, in this area too, that there has been massive development, and the expectation is that technology development will go even faster. If you follow a little bit of what is happening in the European car factories in particular, then you can see that they are really, really far ahead. Suddenly one day the ketchup will come out of the bottle, and then it is vital that we have the tax conditions in place, that the framework conditions are in place, and that we also have an infrastructure in place so that you can charge your car wherever you are. I also see that the Social Democratic Party is concerned that we have an infrastructure that is part of the initiative that has come from the government. That is also crucial. There are a lot of different elements that are involved in terms of whether or not we achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024140949	Thank you to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, and we thank Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. The next question is to the Minister for Education by Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141005	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it contributes to a diverse school system when, according to the chairman of the Association for Parents of Students in Free and Private Schools, Christiane Schaumburg, private schools deliberately opt out of children with diagnoses or other problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141025	Thank you. In the question you refer to a statement by Christiane Schaumburg, who is chairman of the Association for Parents of Students in Free and Private Schools. I recognise her experience as a parent, but at the same time I would like to mention that the association she holds represents only a small group of parents who have or have had children in the free primary schools. The free primary schools have a reality in which they do not, in the same way as the primary schools, have the municipality in their backs. They have an economy where they get 76 kroner. for a student, each time a primary school student gets 100 kroner. They do not have the opportunity to participate in municipal opportunities for skills development and further training, nor do they have a large school administration to lean on. Therefore, it is the responsibility of each free primary school with its own resources and competences to ensure the best possible offer to pupils in need of special education. Free schools are often smaller than primary schools, so they have fewer opportunities to reschedule resources, etc. I am not aware of any evidence that free and private schools deliberately and systematically opt out of pupils with diagnoses or other challenges. On the other hand, a 2015 EVA study shows that free primary schools actually include pupils with support needs. After all, the individual child only has schooling and must be as good as possible. Like primary schools, free schools have a social responsibility to carry out the task of including pupils with different needs, and it is my expectation that free primary schools will live up to their responsibilities and create an inclusive educational environment for the children they occupy. A free primary school must provide special education or other social pedagogy assistance to those pupils who need it. The education of free primary schools must match that of primary schools. However, it is up to the individual free primary school to assess whether the school has the necessary resources and frameworks to accept a child with a diagnosis or disability. The school must decide whether they can offer the student the training he or she needs. In the government, we have supported the opportunity for free schools to provide the necessary support by increasing the grant to the free schools targeted at pupils in need of special support, namely the so-called social switching rate introduced by the Finance Act of 2017. The general number of pupils in the free primary schools is increasing. So do the number of special education pupils in the free primary schools. From 2016 to 2017 it increased by approx. 13 per cent, but the number of pupils receiving special education is increasing even more than the number of pupils. The need to improve the economic conditions of special education pupils has increased precisely because the number of eligible special education pupils continues to increase in the free primary schools. This was one of the reasons why, in the Finance Act 2018, we increased the grant to the Special Education Pool by 40 million. kr., because in this way we will create better opportunities for free primary schools to accept and retain pupils with a need for special support, and for these pupils and their parents to have a more free choice of school.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141353	Thank you. There will be an opportunity to respond, and now the questioner will also have the opportunity. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141358	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. First of all, I must stress that I have nothing against private schools. I have certainly worked more than 25 years as a teacher and headmaster in primary school, but I think it is good that we in Denmark have a legal basis where we can set up private schools. Many private schools are doing a good job, and it is very positive that parents and pupils with private schools have an alternative to the local primary school. I have also often as a school principal shown both the way to a private school, and I have accepted pupils from a private school who would like to return to primary school. We should not generalise, we should not cut all private schools across the same line. However, I am very concerned that there are private schools which do not accept social responsibility. I get indignant, I get angry when I hear that students run the risk of having to leave their private school if they come up with a diagnosis like this. adhd or autism, and that there are private schools that deliberately sort and deselect children when they become too expensive and challenging. The minister says the minister doesn't know that this is happening. However, I can tell you that Thorkild Olesen, chairman of Danish Handicap organisations, has said that DH is experiencing that children with disabilities have been separated from private schools. I can also tell you that a June 2018 report by the Department of Human Rights and VIVE, the Danish Center for Social Science, shows that disabled children at a private school have 31%. greater risk of experiencing a change of school compared to schoolmates without disabilities. So, and I think that must be the basis for our continued dialogue here today... what can we do about this? Because I assume that the Minister for Education agrees with me that we in the Folketing cannot just close our eyes when private schools sort the pupils. It would be obvious that we are creating a model of subsidies so that private schools, which actually assume social responsibility, receive more in subsidies than those which do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141610	Thank you very much. Actually, there's a time counter you can look at. Now we move on to 30-second sessions in questions and answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141618	I think it is very important to quote each other correctly, and I did not say anything about the fact that there is no going on, that some schools say that they cannot accept a child because they cannot provide the necessary support. That is what they have to do, and that is what primary schools have to do. Because what you are responsible for as a school, whether you are a free school or a primary school, is to make sure that a child, such as a child, is taken care of. Having a disability, comes the right place where there is actually a competence to help that child. Folkeskoles have to do that, and free schools have to do that. We have a situation in primary school at the moment, where there are historically many children who are not going to school at all. I'm really worried about that because where are those kids? We are a rich society, and so there are some children here who fall into some holes in the grates, and we simply need to do better. However, it is of no use simply pointing to the free schools and saying that something is going on there. We have a general problem with the fact that there are some children we cannot reach.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141720	Thank you. I just want to point out that I'm desperately looking at this time counter now. Now it started working, so it didn't in the first place. But I have to be aware that I have 1⁄2 minutes. I think it would be quite obvious that we are creating a model of subsidies, so that private schools which take on social responsibility receive more in subsidies than those which do not. I hear the Minister say that targeted resources are actually given to private schools so that they can work with an inclusive learning environment and can do special education. So I would like to ask the Minister how the Minister is being followed up so effectively and purposefully that the private schools actually use the targeted funds for special education and an inclusive learning environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141807	I can hear what the Social Democrats are gasping up to, and that is more regulation of free schools. I just want to say this: one of the reasons why free schools are actually so good at receiving children with completely different needs is that they do not necessarily diagnose them and calculate the number of hours and write down and make excelark, and what do I know? Then it is actually because they accept the individual child as it is. So you can drive forward with all the regulation that I can hear you gas up to in the Social Democracy. It just doesn't get any more care.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141837	That's actually not true. My business is not increased regulation. However, I believe that the combination of increasing pupil numbers, increased state funding and, above all, these examples of private schools sorting out pupils and excluding children who have other needs, must of course lead us to consider how we can then increase the motivation of private schools to strengthen their social and social responsibilities. The first step could of course be that the Ministry of Education ensured that the rules of the Administrative Act on public access to documents, consultation of parties and justification would also apply to private schools, so that pupils and parents were entitled to an insight into, for example: reason for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141917	I think we should look at the individual child. I have been to free schools in the whole country where children have been taken in with heavy disabilities and where they have said: yes, we have a limited budget at our school, but we would like to take this child and throw in the money it costs, for example. to have an adult on a single child all the time. I have experienced a care around which is not necessarily written down anywhere. And I just want to say to the Social Democratic Party that if you're the one who wins the power, of course I hope you don't do that, so don't ruin everything that's going on around the schools. Look at the individual child. Ask me how you can help. This will be good for both the schools and for the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024141959	With that, we thank both the Minister for Education and the questioner, Mr. Troels Ravn. We move on to the next question. It's for the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. The question is asked by Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten, and he now has the floor for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142015	Thank you. Following the reply given by the Minister for Justice to the Legal Affairs Committee's question 1018, will the Minister state his position on raising the level of fines imposed on infringements of the ban on holding the normal week rest of 45 hours in the vehicle from the minimum penalty imposed by the Road Traffic Code of DKK 1.000? to the level of very serious infringements, the so-called VSI, respectively DKr 3,000. for the driver and DKK 6,000. to the company or wagon operator, alternatively to equate the fine level with a 40-percent infringement according to the other rules of the Running-Time Regulation, which in that case will be DKK 4,000. to the driver and 8,000 kroner. to the company or the trucker?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142058	That was a very long question, but there is still only two minutes to answer. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142102	Thank you for the question. I should like to begin by saying that it is not possible to change a level of sanctions administratively. The imposition of sanctions is the exclusive competence of the courts. As legislator, we can provide guidance on the level of sanctions in the preparatory work for a legislative proposal. This has been widely used in the Road Traffic Code. Even in that case, however, it is estimated that the penalty will be imposed by the courts. There are no guidelines on the level of penalties for illegal driving and there is no case-law to that effect. This is partly because it has not been enforced in the past. When there are no guidelines for the level of sanctions, it is up to the police and the prosecution to decide which sanction they legally consider to be the right one. In this case, they have estimated that the minimum penalty of DKK 1,000 should be taken as the basis for the traffic law. As Minister of Transport, I have no authority to tell the police and the prosecution what sanction they should claim. However, I am prepared to look in the near future at whether a legislative proposal with guidelines on the level of sanctions should be put forward in these cases. However, it may be appropriate to wait and see what the courts come to when cases are brought to trial. The courts are not bound by the prosecution's claim, which is why it is not certain that the courts believe that the level of DKK 1,000. is the right thing to do. If the courts then set a level of sanctions which we believe to be too low, I am certainly prepared to put forward a legislative proposal where guidelines can be laid down as to what we think the level should be. At the same time, I also believe that we should wait for the EU negotiations that are currently taking place under the road package. There are, of course, negotiations here. whether the regular weekly rest on the vehicle should be prohibited. When we have a clearer picture of the outcome of the negotiations, as I said, I am prepared to look at the need for a legislative proposal in this area. What the guidelines should then be, I do not want to stand here and take a stand on this on the spot, but that is something I would like to have a dialogue on with all the transport rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142301	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142302	There are several comments on that answer, I would say. Firstly, I would like to say that waiting for the road package and what comes out of the road package in this area can have long prospects, but I do not think that there is any doubt either, the Minister for Transport, that it will also be illegal in a new version of the rules in this area, i.e. as a result of the road package, but it is true, as the Minister says, that it will not be enforced. Nevertheless, the police have found some sort of fine level. It seems a little strange if the answer is that you really are not entitled to do so, that is to say there is no legal basis for some level of fines. However, a fine level of DKK 1,000 has been found, and I would say that the level of fines is, of course, I would almost say laughable. It certainly has no preventive effect, I think we can agree on that. That is why I would like to ask whether it is not possible to increase the level of fines so that it has at least a preventive effect. There, of course, I am delighted that the Minister for Transport is replying that he will be prepared to look at that. For one of the problems is precisely enforcement, as the Minister for Transport has also mentioned. It's a fact that the police haven't enforced this. You have excused yourself with a lack of resources and that it takes a great deal to control these things, and there you have not enforced it. However, it is a little strange when it comes to an illegality which must and I can see that the question I have put to the Minister for Justice has given rise to the fact that it has now been raised, at least a little. The question is whether that is enough, and that is why an increase in the level of fines will have a clear preventive effect and will reinforce the efforts being made by the police here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142511	The best thing that can come out of the negotiations in the European Union on a new road package is, in my opinion, that we will have the smart tachograph introduced earlier and that it can do more than the tachograph today. I think that is an expected outcome of it, and that would be very good. This will allow us to actually be much better able to control the rules that we adopt here in the Folketing. One of the worst things one can imagine is rules that are not controlled, because this leads to those who have pure flour in their bag, those who want to behave properly, complying with the rules, but they are then exposed to unfair competition from a number of companies that do not comply with the rules. So the smart tachograph, I put my trust in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142554	I have no doubt that it will certainly be a very good tool. But it is still gone, at least if you hear the industry's environment, if I may say so, a claim that it is not possible today to control it properly. The police have actually carried out some attempts here in April and May to take action against this. I have not seen the result of that attempt, but it could be quite interesting to see what their experience is. Is their claim that this isn't gonna be regulated? That is not what I am saying, from the industry and from the drivers. With the current tachograph it is also possible to show evidence of accommodation outside the cab.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142635	I look forward to hearing something about that too. I haven't heard of that yet. The fact is that today we do not have a level of fines, because no fines are being imposed today. Therefore, it is also a little difficult to say whether that level is too low or too high or appropriate. We can expect in the future that fines can be imposed. Then we must also say that something that is really going to have an effect, I think, is the fact that the blue parties in the Folketing have introduced 25 hours of parking restrictions in the rest areas. It's going to have an effect, and it can be controlled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142710	We are, in fact, currently increasing the level of fines, both for parking fees in the rest areas and, if I may say so, for illegal parking on the road network, including on the access ramps. But does the Minister not agree with me quite immediately that a fine of DKK 1,000 is imposed? Is it so ridiculously low that it does not have a preventive effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142743	It may be too low, and it may be true that it does not have a preventive effect. On the other hand, I must also say that the question put by the questioner that there should be a level of fines equivalent to very serious infringements seems to me to be out of order. In my opinion, very serious infringements are things that lead to the danger to traffic and other road users, and the fact that you keep your rest in the cab instead of keeping it in a bunk bed is not, in my view, a danger to other road users. One may have the view that it should be held in a bed and not in the cab for reasons other than road safety. However, very serious infringements must, in my opinion, be about road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142824	With that, we thank both the Minister and Mr Gundelach. Henning Hylllested. We move on to the last question that is being asked today. It's for the Minister of Business, and it's being asked by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142837	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142840	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: who does the Minister think should pay for a continuation of, for example, the situation? MARCOD's activities in North Jutland in the maritime cluster, since the Minister himself believes that they are doing a good job and the government has decided with its business promotion plan that the regions should not have anything to do with business policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024142902	Thank you for the question. I am very confident and happy to have my debut here with a section 20 question from the MP from North Jutland, who wants to do something good for North Jutland, because I am very used to it, also from former rapporteurs. The answer to the question is that with the agreement we made on the business promotion system, we reduce the number of politically responsible levels from three to two levels and create the Danish Business Promotion Board, which replaces the six regional growth forums and the Danish Growth Council, which is being closed. And the regions no longer have a role to play in the business promotion system. So it is Denmark's Business Promotion Board that is to draw up an overall strategy for the decentralised business promotion effort, and within the strategy they then have the opportunity to provide grants for decentralised business promotion projects. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Research will also give money to cluster and network organisations such as MARCOD within the framework of the Danish Business Promotion Board's strategy. So it is the Business Promotion Board and the Ministry of Education and Research that are responsible for it, and it will take place after application and in competition with other applicants. Finally, municipalities will also be able to contribute with funding. The Business Promotion Board can be fully operational from January 2019, which is why the Board of Directors can hopefully already at the beginning of the year translate grants into decentralised business promotion activities. Region Nordjylland has provided grants for MARCOD up to 2019, so the organisation MARCOD has a year to prepare an application for among other things. Denmark's Business Promotion Board and private foundations for a continuation from 2020 onwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143057	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143058	Thank you very much for the answer from a new Minister for Industry. It is good that we can also have a talk on such important issues as the clusters within the business promotion system. In other words, there is no doubt that both I and the Social Democrats thought it was an incredibly bad idea to write the regions out of a business promotion plan. There we have a clear point of conflict. However, what is happening here is that it is further a bad timing, because MARCOD's funding ^ as the minister also mentioned was due to expire in 2019. And with the agreement made with the municipalities, there is less money, and it says directly that there must be fewer clusters. So nobody has said at all that MARCOD can and must survive and whether the necessary funding can be found. Now I know that the minister in his new office has been travelling and has also been seeing MARCOD. And I can see from the press that the Minister likes the work being done. And just to mention what you do, I can say that maritime is a growth area for Denmark. Therefore, it is important to have all the different things you do, both apprenticeship training and things and cases where you coordinate a wide range of things, links to universities and what do I know, training and recruitment of employees. It's something they've taken on. If it is that the cluster is no longer there, we can risk having a weaker maritime situation in North Jutland. That is why I would like to ask: when there is less or no money at all, where will the money come from? That is basically what I am asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143234	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143236	It's true that I had great pleasure visiting MARCOD in Frederikshavn. I think it's been a month since I was up there. I have the impression that they are doing a very good job for the North Jutland shipbuilding and shipbuilding industry. I fully acknowledge that. I'm not gonna be the one who decides if they're gonna get money. And it is quite right that I admit that when you change something, there is no guarantee that it will continue in the same way as it was before you changed it. This is also the case here when we are making a business promotion reform. Then, of course, there's this uncertainty about how much they're going to get in subsidies in the future. And it's probably hard to avoid when you're doing a reform. It is true that there will be fewer clusters in the future. We go from about 60 to 10-12 clusters. On the other hand, they can be larger and nationwide. In other words, without wishing to promise anything in any way, I would like to say that there is not a good opportunity for a maritime cluster to come, so that some of these activities can also continue. It'll be a guess, but I'm not the one making that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143340	Now it is the case that most of the funding for which MARCOD is run has come from the region, but it is gone now. I also believe that the Minister has been out visiting some of the business houses around the municipalities, which are also doing a good job, and one of the things that we know and which has emerged from the business promotion plan that the government has put forward and obtained a majority in favour of is that companies and citizens are extremely satisfied with the business promotion system we have had, and that is why we are concerned that something new is coming, even when we know that there is less money for it. When all of a sudden the main source of funding for MARCOD is not just the only cluster, there are also other clusters, in tourism, etc. that seem to have to succumb because the government is cutting down here • how are they going to do in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143429	My experience of how the business promotion reform has been received is that it has been welcomed very well by the customers and companies in the business promotion system, and I do not have the impression that we will have a worse business promotion system in the future, otherwise we would of course not be doing the reform either, because of course we think it will be better. But it is clear that I fully recognise that there is of course this uncertainty when we change things. There is a greater degree of security for the financial resources if we had continued in the same way as we did before, but I am very concerned that we should quickly set up the Business Promotion Board and that decisions can therefore also be taken relatively quickly so as to ensure what can be expected in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143512	Then this is the last time for the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143514	After all, the Minister does not have to be so modest, just because it is the debut in this Chamber, because the government believes that too much money has been spent in this area and that there are too many clusters and too much overlap. That is what the government has used as a justification. But it says against the fact that companies in particular have been happy with this work, because otherwise they would have turned their thumbs down. So we have a problem here. That is why it has also been said whether it would not be possible to postpone the entry into force of the legislation here until 2020, so that these clusters, of which the Minister cannot even come up with any funding himself, will have more time to implement it here in relation to what the new government wants here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143558	Then it's the last time for the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143559	No, we have no intention of doing that. We have plans for the reform to come into force from 1 January, and this is because we think it is a good reform that will improve the conditions of companies in Denmark with a good and effective business promotion system, where there is not too much money spent on administration and where there are not too many small organisational units around it, but that the money will work for the concrete business promotion efforts that companies benefit from. We are therefore looking forward to the reform being put into effect and will therefore not postpone it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143632	With that, we thank the Minister and we thank him. Bjarne Laustsen asking. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181024143642	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 25 October 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
