ParlaMint-DK_20181002115913	Your Majesty, Your Royal Highnesses. At a time when democracy and the institutions of the people's regime in many countries are under pressure, there is every reason to celebrate the Festival Day of the People's Rule here in the Danish Parliament. The first Tuesday of October is a celebration day when the parliamentary year after the service begins with the Danish Parliament in the presence of Her Majesty the Queen and the royal family hearing what the government has in mind in the coming assembly. It's my job as so-called old-age president, that's... not the oldest, but the longest seated member to open the thing and get it set, i.e. chair the election of the Bureau and Secretaries. It sounds simple, but in Sweden you could see that it is not always.
ParlaMint-DK_20181002120052	The Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party, Nunatta Qitornai, Tjóðveldi and Javnaðarflokkurin have nominated Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no other settings available. If no one requests a vote, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181002120117	For the first Vice-President, the Social Democratic Group has appointed Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen. For the second Vice-President, the Left Group has appointed Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. For the third Vice-President, the Enhedslisten Group has appointed Mr. Christian Juhl. And to the fourth Vice-President, the Liberal Alliance group has appointed Mr. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181002120134	In accordance with the constitution of the electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members have been elected: Bent Bøgsted (DF), Mr. Erling Bonnesen (V), Mr. Benny Engelbrecht (S) and Mrs Karen J. Klint (S). Things are then set as they are called, and I would ask the re-elected President to take the chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20181002120208	Thank you for your choice. It is an honour and a pleasure for me to chair another session. I'll do my best and put all my powers in the task. I will be aware that the legislative work is carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. In my meeting chair, I will endeavour to give everyone a fair and equal treatment. We share our views, but we do so in agreement with each other and with the views we have been chosen to defend. Despite our differences, I think that our meetings are taking place in a good atmosphere and with mutual respect. This is something I welcome when I sit in the chair. Respect and good tone help make my work easier. It has probably been noticed that the Parliamentary Chamber looks a little different. Over the summer, we have completed the largest renovation of the hall in the last 100 years. The hall is arranged so that members with disabilities can participate in political work on an equal footing with others. The speaker podium to the left of me has been equipped with a lift so that wheelchair users can get on the platform and turn to the whole room. There are so-called tactile marks on the tables so that blind and partially sighted people can orient themselves. I hope that with these improvements we can encourage people with disabilities to enter politics. I look forward to a new season with my colleagues here in Parliament and to working with all the talented people who have their daily work here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181002120417	I welcome our guests today. Welcome to Her Majesty the Queen, to Hans Royal Highness the Crown Prince, to Her Royal Highness the Crown Princess, to Hans Royal Highness Prince Joachim, to Her Royal Highness Princess Marie and to Her Royal Highness Princess Benedikte. Also warmly welcome to the representatives of the Supreme Court, the Chair of the Faroe Islands Lagting and the Faroe Islands Lagmand as well as to the Mayor of Copenhagen. I take this opportunity to send Parliament's greetings on this day to Greenland's Inatsisartut and the Faroe Islands' Lating.
ParlaMint-DK_20181002120505	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister to explain to him in the Constitution the general position of the Kingdom and the measures envisaged by the Government. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181002120507	Oh, the beautiful young people, suddenly they've run away. Sunday all of Denmark's gift flab and poet Kim Larsen died. But his songs and his poetry live on forever and ever. Oh, the beautiful young people... what do they really face? Yes, on the one hand, a world of tremendous progress. Since my oldest son was born, infant mortality in the world has fallen by more than 40%. Since my daughter was born, the proportion of the world's population living in extreme poverty has more than halved. The world has become a better place for the vast majority of people. On the other hand, there is a break-up: climate change, which is in full swing. In February the temperature reached 6 degrees in the northernmost Greenland. New technology that changes the way we live, the way we are together, the way we work. New balance of power, the United States, which is going its own way, Russia, which is acting aggressively, China, which is filling up more and more. And in the middle of all Denmark. We too feel the changes. But fortunately, we are well equipped to seize them. Denmark is not a perfect country, but it is one of the best countries that exists. For we have united growth and prosperity so that prosperity is not just for the few. We have combined rights and duties so that our country is linked and is a model for others. We have grown in freedom and community by insisting on the freedom to live life, but also on responsibility for our fellow human beings. We are critical of authorities, but trust each other. We know that prosperity does not come by itself or is created by the few, but is created by all of us and must benefit all. Denmark is a good country because we make room for each other, develop Denmark and stand together when it comes to it. Where the democracies of other countries were formed in the shadow of revolutions, ours was created in the light of peaceful change. Where the labour market of other countries is rigid and conflicting, we are based on respect, dialogue and a common desire for prosperity. Where some countries are experiencing a great gap between rich and poor, we hold fast to a society without great divisions. We can be proud of that. I'm proud of that. The Community is Denmark's strength, and since the elections, Denmark has set a record record of employment: 146,000 more private employees' jobs. In 98 out of 98 municipalities, a larger proportion of citizens have entered work, and prosperity has increased by more than DKK 9,000. per Dane. Thousands of thousands have been lifted out of cash and into the working community. This is a huge step forward in social policy. It's not so bad at all. First of all, it is the Danes' own profit. They've worked their way out of the crisis. However, this is also due to the reforms we have implemented, reforms which, after all, were blamed for some of the reforms at the time, but which benefit Denmark now: withdrawal reform, tax reforms, unemployment benefit reform, cash benefits reforms. All of them have contributed to progress, contributing to the growth of the labour force this year alone, with almost 40,000 people and 25,000 next year. That is what makes the recovery possible. This government has continued to reduce taxes by some 20 billion. kr., so it pays better to work, especially for people with low incomes. We have also addressed the so-called interplay problem. This means that it is now better worth saving up for retirement. It's not so bad at all. The government has invested in welfare. Since the elections alone, an average of 4 million has been invested. kr. extra in the health care • every eternal day. And during the same period, municipalities have received more money for kindergartens, schools and home help. It's actually pretty good. But the quality of a welfare society cannot be measured in crowns and ears alone. It must first of all be measured by whether citizens feel safe, whether aid comes when it is needed, whether there is time for care. This summer I received an email from Per from Hedensted. I get a lot of e-mails, I get a lot of letters, and this was one of them that made an impression. Per wrote how he had received a visitor as he himself expressed the royal treatment in the hospital. And he wrote just to say thank you, not only to me, but also to my 178 colleagues in the Danish Parliament for having helped create a society where you can get the best treatment when you get sick. The thanks from Per I would like to pass on today: thank you for helping to improve health care, so it is far better today than it was. It is not perfect, but it is good and it stands in stark contrast to the situation in 2001. In those days, the Danish health service had fallen. The Danes' confidence in health care was so low that many set out on the German motorways in search of dubious treatment. We have reversed this trend with clear patient rights, new super hospitals, falling waiting times, decreasing heart mortality, better cancer survival, much more treatments, 5,800 more doctors, 5,900 more nurses. We've invested in health, we've brought the specialties into skilled units with the highest expertise. Yeah, it's been longer for the OR. On the other hand, we are now getting much better treatment, much better survival, and I am happy to stand by that prey at any time. We are not going back to the time when we did have more hospitals close, but when people had to leave the country after treatment. On the other hand, we must solve the problems we face today, address the challenges we face. The first challenge is proximity. Today, too many people are going to the hospital to get relatively uncomplicated control. It pushes both the patient and the hospital. But for example, patients with heart disease do not need to go to the hospital for rehabilitation. In the Central Jutland Region, it has been found that it can be done at a municipal health centre so that patients do not have to travel so far. It will also help with the second challenge, namely that too many patients lack coherence in their course of treatment. I think we all know a person who has experienced what I do at least • our mother, father or aunt, who may fall into the home, is admitted to the hospital, where there are more problems, but where the systems, like not really talking to each other, neither inside the hospital nor between the hospital, the municipality and the practicing doctor. Just coordinating a medical transport from the hospital and home can sometimes seem like a challenge. And if there is a need for follow-up care, yes, then things can stop completely. We have to do much better than that. Because it is not enough that the treatment is good. The course should also be good, the course should feel safe, and it will not end until the patient is well again. The third challenge facing us is that there are too many unexplained differences in health services, depending on where you live in the country. And so I feel that treatment must not depend on the postal number. We must create much more equality in treatment provision across the country. It acts among other things. on spreading the good example quickly, the standards that put the citizen at the centre. There are, for example: good people in North Jutland who have introduced a system in which patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, col, can even measure heart rate, blood pressure and oxygen saturation at home on the couch and send the numbers via a tablet to the municipality or hospital, which follows up if needed. This saves everyone a lot of trouble and, above all, the patient, who gets a better quality of life. And it has worked in North Jutland since 2015. Yet it is not yet spread out to the rest of the country. It can't be meant to be, so we have to do better. On the other hand, on the fall break, the government will present a health reform, and the health reform will, as part of the cohesion reform, put the citizen, man, the patient at the centre. The aim is to create the organisation that can best drive the development of our health services forward so that good health care becomes even better and for the benefit of the patient, for the citizen. This is the case at national level, where differences have to be less and quality higher, and this is the case at local level, where 21 new health communities will in future have to bridge the gap between the hospital, the municipality and the general practitioner. Each health community is built around one of the current emergency hospitals and will on average cover four to five municipalities and provide a new driving force for the coherence of the treatment so that the weakened elderly patient admitted to the hospital will be taken care of safely and properly where hospital, doctor and municipality work more closely and better together and organise a comprehensive, manageable course. This must apply all the way from hospitalization to follow-up and rehabilitation, which may then have to continue in the local health centre. Health is about helping people first and last. This applies not only to the treatment of somatic diseases. A month ago I visited the new psychiatric hospital in Slagelse, and here I met two young women, Katrine and Malou, who told about everyday life in the department where they are hospitalized. Both were admitted for the first time when they were teenagers, and since then they have been in and out, in and out of treatment centers for years. It is two young women who are strong and vulnerable at one and the same time, two young women who are fighting a battle that we others can hardly imagine, and they must not fight alone. Denmark's young people are perhaps in fact the best and most diligent generation we have ever had. They are aware of their choices, have a vision of the world and take responsibility for themselves and for each other. They're doing good. At the same time, however, about one in four women between the ages of 16 and 24 indicates that she is mentally ill, and since 2010, the number of patients in child and adolescent psychiatry has increased by more than 50%. I am deeply concerned about that. The government will add 2.1 billion. kr. more to the psychiatry over 4 years as part of a common plan to lift the effort all around. At one end of the spectrum there are vulnerable young people and they need help in time before the problems grow big and incalculable, and therefore the government will among other things. provide psychological support for young people down to 14 years of anxiety and depression. At the other end of the spectrum there are people with severe psychiatric diagnoses. They must also have better conditions, better and more intensive treatment, more coherent action, better recruitment of employees with the right skills. Everyone must join the community; that applies to young people, and that also applies to the elderly. In my generation, our grandparents were old when they were in their sixties. Our parents were old when they were in their seventies, and we ourselves, yes, feel young in our fifties. Today, many have the prospect of an active and good life well advanced in years, and we can enjoy it, and we can look forward to it. Unfortunately, however, there are too many elderly people who feel lonely. The proportion of suicides is almost twice as high among the elderly as in the rest of the population twice as high. It is heartbreaking, yes, it is almost shameful for a society. Each of us has a responsibility for our loved ones. We can't just put that down. The municipality or the home helper cannot and must not replace the heat from family and friends. But the great community must be able to embrace those who need it. That is an ambition we must have. That is why the government wants to set aside more than 700 million. kr. over 4 years to better care for the elderly, more care, and to attract more employees. In general, the government wants to put the citizen at the centre, put the human being ahead of the system, and thus put the employees who provide direct services to the citizens at the centre. We all know them all: the competent midwife, the skilled dental care provider, the committed educator, the friendly porter, and all of you others; all of you who make the big difference to people, young and old. You must have more freedom to do what you are best at, to practice your subjects. Last month, the government presented the first part of a new cohesion reform • 130 proposals to give less paperwork, more citizen-centred care. This requires, among other things, that: among many things skilled leaders; leaders who enter into character and can fill the freer framework. Therefore, one of the government's upcoming proposals will be about how to raise the quality of public sector leaders. During the autumn we will be presenting several initiatives with the same aim, namely to create more coherent service; more coherent service, not least for those who are struggling with multiple challenges at the same time • unemployment, illness, perhaps an abuse. They are not to be met by a maze of systems. They need help as what they are, whole people, with a concerted effort that takes account of their very stories, their situation. The government wants to give even better opportunity to do so with a new initiative that we will be presenting very soon. Because there aren't any people to put in boxes. Humans don't fit in boxes, and no one should be left on the edge of the community. A few weeks ago, I visited the day care GAIA GAIA at Amager. It is one of the country's largest day care centers full of charming and bright kids. One could only be happy, because when one looks at Danish children and young people today, it is not difficult to be optimistic on Denmark's behalf. For most children, they thrive, they do well. But unfortunately that is not all, because too many still do not have the opportunities and the security they deserve. That is why the government has, step by step, presented an overall strategy to help children and young people on the edge into the community. We have strengthened the daily offers, 1⁄2 billion. kr. to schools with pupils who have a difficult professional experience, more internships and easier access to vocational training. And now we're gonna lay out the next clues. We're gonna pay 1 billion. kr. extra for early efforts for children in vulnerable families, more and better trained educators, closer contact between healthcare cores and vulnerable families. We want to adjust the reform of primary school, pull up professionalism, give more local freedom, and this year we send 3,000 pupils in the 4th grade on a mini-training trip around Denmark to show them new sides of their country and strengthen understanding for the community. After primary school comes upper secondary education. More young people have to choose and more young people have to undertake vocational training. Since the election, we've come a long way. Apostasy is lower, professionalism is higher, more young people are seeking in, but we need to go much further. That's what we're gonna put in 2 billion. kr. extra to over the next 4 years: to strengthen the way from primary school to skilled, to upgrade the basic school's practical subjects and to increase the quality of vocational education and training. Denmark's young people are Denmark's future. It is our commitment that everyone comes from the start, gets the best opportunities for a good life and becomes part of the community. Because no one can do anything, but everyone can do something. This also applies to those people who were not born in Denmark but who have come here on the run from war or conflict. Each has his story, his dreams, his nightmares, and I kind of wish we could help each and every one of us, but we can't. The number matters. That is why the government and the Danish People's Party have tightened the immigration policy a number of times, and, together with a reinforced effort in the EU, this has meant that we have now brought down the number of asylum seekers. In 2017, the figure was the lowest in 9 years. We will continue to do so. War refugees who come to Denmark must meet with help and security of course they must meet with clear expectations. Firstly, a clear expectation that shelter is temporary. When the need for protection ends, you have to go back home, help rebuild your homeland. That's gotta be it. That's the moral right thing to do. Secondly, an expectation that, as a starting point, you will support yourself while you are here. Otherwise somebody else will have to support you. The government has concluded a tripartite agreement with the social partners, which helps to increase the number of people in work. Since the elections, the proportion of refugees in employment after 3 years in Denmark has doubled. It is a huge step forward, not least for the individual, no matter where one's future lies, but also for the community. There is one thing that is certain when we talk about where the future lies, and that is that it should certainly not lie in a ghetto. For too many years, far too few demands have been made on the foreigners who came to the country and accepted that many lumped themselves together in a closed world without proper contact with the rest of society. It doesn't go anymore. The government has presented a strategy that makes up with parallel societies: better distribution in day care institutions, past detection of vulnerable children, targeted language tests, strengthened police action, tough action against criminals and a goal that Denmark does not have ghettos by 2030. A total of 20 concrete actions are anchored in seven political agreements and with broad political support, a good and a significant starting point for a long, cool move that we must not forget here in the Folketing when other agendas are pushing on. The government will therefore present a number of legislative proposals on the basis of the political agreements we have concluded. Thanks to all of you who have backed up. We must create a strong community and we must create it together. However, we must also say 'no', as in the case of those who abuse trust. The area of the capital is currently experiencing new band-and-band euros, shootings on the open street among completely innocent citizens, and we should never accept this kind of dumb-ass behavior. I know that the police are taking the situation very The government has tightened the penalties for gang crime, also for shooting in public space. That is why there is also a record number of people in prison. At the same time, the prosecution has now imposed a provisional ban on the Loyal to Familia group and asked the courts to decide whether the group can be dissolved. We managed to put an end to last year's gang conflict, not least because of a lot of police efforts, and this time too all the forces must be put in place to stop the gangs. It's a fight we're gonna win. Denmark must be closed to those who abuse or do not want the community. But then, on the other hand, we have to be open to those who make the community stronger and skilled foreign talents, for example. Danish companies create the wealth that makes welfare possible, and therefore it is serious when they cannot have the employees they need. Each foreigner who comes to Denmark on what is called the system of amounts contributes hundreds of thousands of dollars net to the public funds, overall close to 1.5 billion. kr. Nevertheless, there is a majority outside the government who insists on making it as troublesome as possible for Danish companies to hire talents from abroad. And there I just have to say that the task of the Danish Parliament is not to oppose Danish companies on the contrary. We must give companies proper conditions. They need to hire employees on good terms. This leads to increased prosperity. It creates the opportunity to develop welfare. The government has been trying for a long time to get support to change the rules without much success. Now we are again trying, this time with the involvement of the social partners, who also do not want unnecessary trouble. Tomorrow, the government will be presenting a global initiative to make it easier to attract employees from countries to which we already have strong economic ties, such as the United States, Canada, Singapore, Japan. Danish companies must have the skilled labour they lack, but in a way where we do not open the door to those we do not need. This is the government's approach, and this time I hope that a majority in the Folketing will help solve the problems, because they are real and they are growing. The Community will not be weakened by obtaining effective external assistance. No community is weakened by this. This is also the case with the Kingdom Community, where we take the debates together when they are necessary, where we engage in each other, where we find solutions together. A few weeks ago, I made an agreement with the President of Greenland's Home Government, Naalaksuisut, on Danish contributions to achieving a Greenlandic vision, a Greenlandic vision of new airports, better infrastructure and strengthened business cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. It is an agreement that I welcome and of which I am proud. And I would like to sign today for the very broad support given by the parties in this Chamber. If we are to keep the community alive, yes, then we should not just help each other, then we should also have more knowledge of each other; then we should understand our differences, similarities, history, so that we break down prejudices and build trust. At this year's Kingdom Meeting in the Faroe Islands, we discussed together how we can launch an effort to raise awareness of each other in the Kingdom Community. I expect us to be able to do that when I meet later this year with the Layerman and the President of the Naala Suisut, the President of the Government. Both the Faroe Islands and Greenland want greater insight and also greater involvement in foreign and security policy. It makes new demands on the way we work together in the Kingdom Community, and it is a theme that the government is looking forward to discussing more in depth with the Faroe Islands and Greenland in the coming period.
ParlaMint-DK_20181002123511	Strong communities are also the way forward for Denmark in the world. In quite a short time, much has changed. The world order we have more or less taken for granted since World War II is undergoing fundamental change. It's not time to stand alone anymore. It is now that we need the community with our neighbours, with the countries with which we share values, history and destiny. For 45 years we have been part of the European Union; we are approaching a golden wedding. For 25 years we have been in the single market; we are celebrating a silver wedding. And what have we got? Huge benefits. The same rules of play for large and small countries. The goods may flow freely. More than half of all Danish exports of goods and services go to the EU's internal market! Has this made us less Danish? No, it hasn't. There is no contradiction between Danish sovereignty and a strong Danish commitment to Europe on the contrary. We must stand with the rest of Europe, we must take an active part, we must take responsibility for development, and we must do what we can to draw the cooperation that is not perfect in our direction. And we must, among other things. do, because we have plenty to bid in with • there are more and more people looking towards Denmark as a model for their own society: the Danish flexicurity model, our approach to migration, integration, digitalisation, green transition. We have a lot to offer, and a Europe that is united is becoming increasingly important for Denmark. For what we have taken for granted before is now at stake: free trade, the fight against climate change, democratic values. On all these issues, Europe is today the strongest global voice. At all these questions, Europe is today the adult in the room. But the European Union also faces major challenges. In 1⁄2 years, Britain will be leaving the community. To me, it's a tragedy. But it's the British's choice. I hope that we will arrive at a good and balanced agreement which at least mitigates the worst effects. It is in everyone's interest that we should work for that. But even that looks difficult. We are therefore preparing to see that there may not be an agreement on Brexit, and that is why we are now launching a number of things. We hire customs officers, we prepare the systems. However, I would like to make it quite clear that, regardless of how the negotiations land, we will of course take care of the thousands of Britons who already live in Denmark today. It's only fair and fair. The EU is crucial for Denmark. The same is true of NATO, and NATO is also at a turning point. The price of our security has increased. That's pretty reasonable. After all, we cannot expect the taxpayers of other countries to help pay for our security if we do not take more responsibility ourselves. That is why we are significantly increasing the cost of defence with the latest defence settlement, and at the same time we are doing a great deal of work around the world. We send out the world's best soldiers when it burns on, for the most dangerous missions. To Afghanistan and to Iraq, where we take the lead in the fight against ISIL. But also to areas where peace must be protected, to the Balkans and to the Baltics. This year I have visited our soldiers in both places, skilled, decent, dedicated and committed people, who bring out the values that we stand for and that we fight for. So today I will say to Denmark's sendees: We are proud of you. I'm proud of you. Denmark can be familiar in every way with its efforts, and that is not least your merit. Thank you. Denmark can also be aware of its efforts when it comes to one of the biggest challenges in the world right now: climate, global warming. Human influence on the climate of the planet is approaching a critical point. The scenarios we have been talking about for a long time now gradually become reality. Our emissions of climate gases are in danger of triggering a chain reaction which we cannot control ourselves and which will change the living conditions of our grandchildren and their children. And I can't do that. I want a Denmark that leads the way, which draws the world in a greener direction, but I also want a Denmark that does not lose heart, because even if the challenge is great, we must not give up. We have to believe that we can do something about it. New green energy is now cheaper than new black energy. New technologies are seeing the light of day, and we can be pleased about that. Just before the summer break, yes, I think it was the very last day before the summer break... we made the greenest energy agreement in Danish history together with all parties in the Danish Parliament. Thank you. Three new offshore wind farms, lower electricity charges, green electricity will be cheaper. In the 17 years since the change of system in 2001, we have tripled the green current, created the world's best energy system, the world's best conditions for green investment and become European champions in the export of energy solutions. We can be delighted about that. Now we must set the course for the next 17 years, so that our children and grandchildren also have something to enjoy. Today it is the case that the transport sector accounts for about a quarter of Denmark's CO2 which is why the government is now setting a clear target: in 12 years, in only 12 years, we will shut down the sale of new diesel and petrol cars. Five years later, in 17 years' time, every new car in Denmark must be an electric car or another type of zero-emission car. This will mean that by 2030 there will be more than one million hybrid, electricity or equivalent green cars in Denmark over a million. That is a great ambition. It's not the kind of person you just reach. It will not be easy, but that is precisely why we must try. The government will take the first steps in a new air and climate project that we will be presenting next week. Let's set the course. Now we are sending a clear signal to the European Union, to the car industry, to the rest of the world: Diesel and petrol cars in Denmark must be past. The future is green and the future is very close. And we do that because we're in a race with time, with climate change. There's a race. On the other hand, we should not turn climate action into a political race, because we will only achieve it if the Danish Parliament is united, if Denmark is united, as we have a tradition of, so that we can draw the other countries together. This is also why the government has invited heads of state, experts, NGOs and many others from all over the world to a summit in Copenhagen in two weeks' time, interim representatives of 47 different countries to one of the largest green summits taking place in the world this year. It is the first in the line of the partnership for sustainability and green growth P4G, which Denmark has taken the initiative to invest in and take the lead in, and which must spread the green solutions to the whole world on a scale where they really bat. P4G will include: cooperation on the replacement of diesel buses by electric buses in Mexico City, in São Paulo, in Medellin and in Santiago cities, which together have nearly 30 million inhabitants. In this way, there is a connection between what we do at home and what we do in the world. In both places we fight for a better future. We must continue to do so. Generations before us have built Denmark up for the Denmark we have today. They faced great challenges that they overcame. We have to do the same. We must never lose heart. We must always believe in ourselves, believe in each other. Step by step, we must achieve results. It is, in effect, at the heart of the people's rule. Then I know that in the new parliamentary year there must be elections. For those who do not have the patience to wait, I can today reveal a date: there must be elections to the European Parliament on Sunday 26 May 2019. It is an important choice at a special time for Denmark and Europe. The date of the parliamentary elections, I'll wait with that. Because I hope, and I believe that in this parliamentary year too, we can continue the good cooperation on the many tasks that need to be done before we get there. By its very nature, we do not agree on everything. Yet it is our job to lift up a flock, try to reach out to the differences, try to reach each other. Because the present is better than the past and the future is even better. We must pass on a freer, richer and more secure Denmark to the next generation. We must pass on a freer, richer and more secure Denmark to all these beautiful young people if they long live! Then I would like to ask the Danish Parliament to declare a living for Denmark. Denmark live!
ParlaMint-DK_20181002124824	Thank you, Prime Minister. As you know, the statement will be debated on Thursday, 4 October 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181002124832	Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Kristian Jensen): Bill no. L 1 (Proposal for a Finance Act for the financial year 2019), Bill No. L 2 (Proposal for a Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for state, municipalities and regions for the financial year 2021) and Bill No. L 3 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2018, Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2019, Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2020 and Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2021. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 3 October 2018, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
