ParlaMint-DK_20181115100047	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 104 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions, the Law on Vocational Training and the Law on Labour Market Training, etc.) Bill No. L 105 (Proposal for a Law amending various laws in the field of education and the Law on special educational support for higher education and the Law on folk high schools. Minister for the Environment and Food (Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen): Bill No. L 106 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on Nature Conservation, the Law on Hunting and Game Management and the Criminal Code. Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill No. L 107 (Proposal for a law on the collection, use and storage of information on air passengers. Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 108 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Tobacco Products, etc.) Law prohibiting the sale of tobacco and alcohol to persons under the age of 18. Bill No. L 109 (Proposal for a Law on the Certification Scheme for Foreign Language Interpreters in Health), Bill No. L 110 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health and the Law on the Scientific Treatment of Health Research Projects. Bill No. L 111 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health. Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Eva Kjer Hansen): Bill No. L 112 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Fisheries. Susanne Eilersen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 40 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on travel rules for employees of municipal utilities). Christian Langballe (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 41 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the need to be Danish married in order to be naturalised as a Danish citizen). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Anders Samuelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement of 15/11 18 on the government's foreign and security policy strategy 2019-2020. R 5). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 22 November 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100323	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100349	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100409	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100435	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100456	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100519	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100538	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100602	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100618	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100648	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. It has been proposed that the proposal be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. It has to be quiet when you walk out of the hall. And it has to be quiet now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100752	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100902	The debate is open. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. And there is more speaking time than usual: 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115100932	Thank you. It is actually a pretty big day today, and the legislative proposals we are discussing here have been at least four years in the process. We started discussing the area of divorce while we were in government with the parties that are behind it today. It was continued by the present government, and I think, in fact, that we should be able to skip the flag a little so that we have managed to land as broad an agreement as it is in this area, because divorce is something that affects one child every three, half of all marriages are broken up. That means that here we are deep into almost all Danish families. This is something that means a lot to a lot of children; it's something that means a lot to a lot of adults; and I think it's important that it's an area where we don't fight each other in here, but actually try to agree with the different positions that can be in the divorce area. I should like to say that it is probably many of the same disagreements that are about how such legislation should be brought together here, as the differences of opinion which may also exist in the rest of society. In this way, it is also reflected in the legislation when it is the case that all the parties end up in it. I think that's good. Then I would like to say that, on the issue of divorce, I think it is the case that far too many children continue to get into a mess. I feel as a starting point that what grown-ups do must adult people lie and mess with themselves. Whether they want to be married or divorced or want to get married and divorced several times a week, adults have to lie and meddle with themselves. But in the second that children are involved, the rest of society and our community have a completely different responsibility. And there I think that the divorce law we have had in Denmark has put too much emphasis on the fact that there was a legal relationship between the mother and the danger. What we are doing with this legislation is saying that divorce is not primarily a matter between a mother and a father; it is, in fact, primarily a matter for the child and we have to tackle that, because that is where the community has to become involved, that is where the community has to go in and say that there can be quite serious problems for a child here. In any case, for every child, it is that the mother and the father are divorced, a grief, but the problems can also grow enormously, and I simply do not think that we as a society have a look for that, and I think we are getting a much greater look for that now. We're doing with these bills a traffic light scheme red, yellow and green. That is one of the things that has been said a great deal in the negotiations. And that is simply in recognition of the fact that divorce families are wildly different. So far, we have had one size fits all-law that does not work at all, because everything from parents who live incredibly good, common parenthood around a child, even if they are divorced, to people who lie in deadly conflicts with each other. This cannot be dealt with within a single legislative framework with the same set of rules, which is why we have divided it into three main categories: red, yellow and green. If you are green, it means that there is peace and happiness between parents, that you have a fine working relationship with each other, and then there is a new set of rules. There are a number of privileges that we do not have today, for example. the fact that parents can have a common place of residence, that is to say both of them are the parents of the child, not only have joint custody, but enter into the fact that they are actually fully equal as parents. I should like to say from some of us who belong to the green category that it will make a great many things very much easier for parents to be equal, and I think that is also very symbolic. I don't like it. We don't like it when you call some people "A" and "B" parents. In fact, it has to be the case that you are equal about being a parent when you are in reality. So I think it is very good that we enter the new millennium of legislation and take into account the fact that a great many children live with divorced parents, where things work very well, and that we then also adapt the legislation in a way that everyday life can work around it. We have an outstanding case of child support. I can see from the legislative programme that we will return to this in February, but that is not an insignificant question in this context. We'll get back to that. If you are in the yellow zone, you have conflicts that are precisely in an intermediate category, which means that in our opinion and with this legislation you must meet with a system that does not consist of lawyers. There again I want to go back to the point that a conflict between two parents is not primarily a legal issue between two adults; it is a conflict relationship for the child. Therefore, our system must also go to the conflicts in that the main aim of going to the conflict is to ensure that the mother and the danger become very good at working together on being parents for the child. That is the only and overall purpose, with the way the system goes to things. That is why it should not be lawyers who are primarily able to deal with a legal relationship between parents; instead it should be conflict brokers; it should be child experts, psychologists; it should be social workers; it should be a completely different professional group from those who have been in the state administration so far. So it is not, in fact, because the State Administration has done something wrong, that we are abolishing the State Administration, that is because the legislation that we have adopted politically and that the State Administration has been going on has been completely wrong. This is what we are going to change now and create a family courthouse and a children's unit that should be around the families. So when you move into the yellow zone and thus have conflicts between the mother and the father, instead of being met by lawyers, you will be met by people who can help you to settle the disputes that exist and get a better parenthood for the children you have with each other. This is probably one of the biggest achievements in the field of divorce since divorce was allowed. This means a lot to children, where parents are in conflict with each other. As a child, you can raise a case yourself, so it may well be that the mother and the father think that everything works fantasticly well, but there is probably also one or two of the children who say: It may well be that the adults think it works well, but we as children do not think so. So there will be an opportunity to raise matters as a child, just as the municipalities will have an opportunity to take matters up, and then we will go into the red zone. There are a large number of cases where things go into complete deadlock and where there is a mix of social problems, abuse problems and violence problems, while there are gigantic conflicts between the mother and the danger. We cannot deal with that at all, as the system is today. We cannot deal with what is happening today. Children are being trampled underfoot, cases are cycling around in an overly multifaceted system where one place decides on one, the other place decides on the other, the municipalities decide on the other. In the middle of all these cases, there are some children who look with great fear because they do not know what kind of framework they have around their lives because the system, the authorities and the parents cannot figure out how to make the decisions. It's not gonna work! So what we do with the red track is we go in and get a holistic orientation in. We will once again have a much more diverse group of employees around the families, we will have closer cooperation between the municipal authorities and the new family justice system, and then we will have a judge for the table end who will ultimately be able to decide on everything that concerns the family relationship, with the result that matters will not lie and cycle around the system. This legislation also gives us something that I think is really important, namely a child's unit. It is in fact the Minister's proposal that the honour should be given. It was the present government that presented it in its initial presentation. It is important to focus on the fact that children should have a place to come with the grief that it is to have been in a divorce situation. Whether the parents are in conflict or not, it is a grief for the children. Where parents are in conflict, it is not just a great grief, it is something that can be absolutely devastating to the child's abilities and ability to have the relationships that must be in a family. The child unit that sees the light of day with this proposal can hopefully help to get adult Denmark to step in and say: In fact, we believe that it is the community's job to look after the children where the parents are inadequate, and it is the parents who have conflicts that affect the children. So this is again an area in which I believe we are taking a step into a new millennium to say what is our primary look. What is the main thing about the legislation we make as a society, as a state, as a community? It's actually looking out for some kids where the parents miss. And there's nothing to tell us we're missing. I have divorced myself, so it is not to judge anyone, but there is just a period, especially on top of a divorce, where things are incredibly difficult for the children, and where it can be incredibly difficult as parents to be the one who has the task of telling the child about it and would do so in the right way, to put aside those feelings that may have got enormously stuck in connection with such a divorce. We, as adults, need help with this, but the children need to have someone who sees them, and they need to have a place to go if they need a longer run around it, that the mother and the danger have been divorced. Then I would say that there has been a great deal of equality debate on this, and it is also undoubtedly the case that being able to share the place of residence means that it will no longer be 90%. of the residence parents who are women. This will mean that far more men come in and become equal and come at eye level with the parenthood as divorced parents. I think that's very good. But I would also like to say that it is secondary. I guess now I'm on the Internet almost every day... the bastard to be a feminist. I'm pretty proud I am. However, I would just like to say that exactly when it comes to divorces, we need to keep in mind in the public debate, and we need to remember this when we ourselves are divorced, that there is one consideration and only one consideration, and that is how the children feel in that divorce, and not all sorts of other things, because it must and must always be secondary. I would like to thank you for your incredibly good cooperation with the government on these things. I think we've come a long way. It means a lot out there, and I hope this law meets all the expectations we have of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115101952	Thank you to the rapporteur. Here you go to Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115102002	In my time in the Danish Parliament I have participated in many and also very different negotiations. It has been both exciting and educational, but there are always some courses that have separated themselves and that have filled a great deal, both in terms of content and time, and the Social Democrat rapporteur has just said that it has probably been legislation that has been four years in the process. That is a long time, but it has also been necessary. However, in addition to the content and timing of this, it can also be said that it has been some debates that have emotionally filled a great deal. It is not to be understood that I am saying that we are making legislation with our emotions, but it is more an expression of the fact that we have really been very politically aware that what we decide on this legislation will affect a great many families. We know that the divorce rate is quite high. About 50%. of the marriages concluded are dissolved. So our desire has clearly been to improve an area that has not been sufficiently well functioning. There is no doubt that when you have some legislation that affects the emotions of people and those involved, and that, of course, is both for good and for bad, it is also something that we must take into account. In this whole process, which I have also been part of over the past four years, I think it can be said that it has been some long, intense negotiations, and they have also been complicated from time to time there has been a lot of law associated with it, but all the time in my back head such a picture of the child or children who are more or less involved in their parents' divorce has been stored, and I have tried to focus on that picture all the way through. Because that has been the main thing, that is to say, we wanted to change legislation where we could also see that the changes we made would make a difference to the children involved. That is why it was actually one of the things that I remember best from those initial stages that we talked about the parental responsibility law. How could we go in and have a look at it? How could we have a new purpose clause in which we would just put consideration for the child at the top of the list? The fact that a divorce case is a very, very difficult course for an entire family also means that there must be a focus on the child's well-being and that, to the extent possible, the child must of course also be heard and involved, and we have decided that the child will be. I do not think the former rapporteur mentioned this, but it is in relation to having children's experts that the child is offered a contact person and also the right to a sitter. This is very, very important for this legislation, and of course we have agreed on that, and we have discussed intensively how to make this construction in relation to this area. For the Danish People's Party, it has been very important that there should be what is called a strengthened cooperation between the family law and the social system, that what we call a coordinated effort should be found where there can be a rapid exchange of information, and of course primarily in the complex cases. This can be of crucial importance to all the parties involved in a divorce. But for the children it may be precisely that which helps them both in the short and long term to move forward and also through a very violent and life-changing period. Whether parents can find a divorce or not, it will at least very, very often be the case that if you have shared children, there will be a major impact on the child. I must also say, and I have said this several times in the debates, that it is not rare that I have heard about the children where parents can find out, if you can use that expression, a good model for their parenthood and also for the divorce, but there is so often a child who feels a great sense of guilt. Because when mother and father suddenly feel good after the divorce, but the child is sad, the child often feels that it is the child who has caused the divorce, and that is not how the Danish People's Party feels that a child should feel. It has also been important in the discussions and in the creation of the legislative proposals to look at how more focus can be placed on what we call equal parenthood. Often it has actually been the case that one party has felt neglected and less equal as a parent, and the time around the divorce can be very turbulent for all parties. Words and accusations may roar around the ears, but when everything has settled down and may also settle down a little more, some decisions may be made which may in the long term be good for all parties. That is why I think it was very clear that it was important for us to agree that the decision on the final residence of a child should be postponed for just three months from the date of the abolition of cohabitation. Money We also heard about that a little before • can often be conflicting in divorce cases: Who should have what? And who's gonna pay for what? It's sad, and I actually often think it hurts the baby. For whatever happens, the child gets involved, by listening to what is going on and perhaps to the differences between the parents. However, with the decision that parents who share custody also receive, as a starting point, half the child and young people's benefits, we think that is very good. Then there have been a great many other economic aspects involved in these discussions. Interestingly, it has been, and we ourselves have not been able, what to say, to maneuver around them, because much also lies in other ministerial areas, and it is quite complex. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party are looking forward to being informed of, but perhaps also involved in. Then there is another area that has also been included in the legislation. After all, some years ago what was called the separation period was abolished. In the Danish People's Party we are of the clear conviction that having a little time for reflection does not damage a situation in which a family dissolves. We said during the negotiations that we would like to see this period reinstated. It may not have been the easiest manoeuvre, but sometimes there is something that lies in what we might call a party's DNA, that is to say that you really want to fight for something to get it into the legislation, and that actually succeeded to a large extent, and we are very satisfied with that. We also recognise that other parties have had more or less difficulty in accepting it, but we have also listened to them and they have listened to us and we have listened to each other's arguments. In fact, I think that what we have achieved in the agreement that a three-month period of reflection is now being introduced, that the period is being used and used constructively, that the House of Family Rights is being given child-sacrificing advice, targeted advice and clarification, that there is going to be conflict mediation, and that we are also working on making a mandatory digital process with the aim, of course, of creating an understanding of the child's situation and the reactions to the parents' divorce, is clearly a step in a direction in which particular consideration for the child and the child's well-being is the main concern. So, of course, we look forward to it. I would also like to make it clear that when the Danish People's Party has also worked very hard to get this reflection period done... I think the other rapporteurs who have participated will also be able to recognize that it has not been a question of the Danish People's Party saying that you should not divorce. But, of course, we find it worrying that half of the marriages are being dissolved. But for us it has been extremely important that when it comes to common children, the most solid foundation is created for your children as possible, even in the everyday life that follows, and here we are therefore convinced that time for reflection absolutely does not harm. We also found out when the debate was running at its highest level because it got a lot of media attention: that actually there are a lot of people who support us on this. And I have also noted that several of the parties that may have been opposed as a starting point have also said that we have now got a very good content done, and that is what we are working on. I think that in a few years we will be able to see that we are going the right way in adopting these laws. But, of course, as a politician, I am very aware that such a comprehensive law as it really is should also be followed up, and that is why we have also made provision for an evaluation. It's not gonna happen for 4 years, and 4 years is a long time. At least it may sound like it, and often we also want evaluations earlier, but I think that in this particular case, where so much changes and we have to make some new constructions, it does make sense, and we shouldn't wait 4 years to get together. We also need to have some status meetings, and we clearly expect the Minister to take the lead in getting them done. Because this is where we have the opportunity to follow up, but also to hear and incorporate the experiences that come in the new constructions we see. I would also like to say that all legislation is being followed up by committee work, and so must this. Although we really feel that we have reached the goal where we can be at the moment, it may not be a secret to more of us, even in the last few days, when it has come so close to us all of a sudden we have to look at this legislation, and now we have to deal with it first. And that is, of course, one of the things that I think we should do in connection with the work of the committee. However, the Danish People's Party is very much looking forward to a new structure being created in the whole area of family law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115103024	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115103034	Thank you for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for reviewing the draft law in a relatively detailed way. Thank you for that, so I shall make my speech relatively brief. With the two legislative proposals, we are, of course, implementing the agreement on a new family law system, an agreement which, among other things, is: the creation of the Family Court House and a much stronger focus on the child's best interests, an agreement that all of the Danish Parliament's parties, as I said, are behind. With the new Family Court House, we ensure a much better course for families such as: ends up in divorce. We create a new system that is one-tier, so that we pool the necessary competences in one place, while avoiding parallel processing. We are creating a new categorization of family conflicts so that families get the help that suits their situation and, above all, we create a system in which the best interests of the child always come first. We do, among other things. by changing legislation, but also by creating a children's unit, as previously mentioned, in the Family Court House, which only focuses on the child's well-being in a difficult family situation. So with the proposals we are discussing here today, we will have a better and more flexible system which will ensure that the child is at the centre. That is why I also welcome the fact that all parties are behind the agreement so that we can have security and stability in this area. That is why I would like to thank the other parties for a good, constructive, serious negotiation process, which also contained some armistices, and that must be the case, but also for this constructive approach to a difficult and delicate subject. With those words, I shall announce that the Left will vote in favour of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115103241	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Andersen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115103256	Thank you. My name is Madsen, but we'll take it. Today we are discussing a very important legislative proposal on the new family justice system, a system that we in the Enhedslisten really welcome. We are because consideration for the child and the child's well-being are at last at the heart of family law. For too long, the child's well-being has had to be in the background when parents have had difficulty finding solutions to the problems that may arise in divorce, for example, and for too long the child's right to both parents has been misunderstood as both parents' right to the child. For Enhedslisten it has therefore been a crucial pointer in the design of the new system to make the child's best the governing principle. This does not just mean that consideration for the child and its well-being must be clear in the legal terms of purpose. This also means that consideration for the child permeates the organisation of the whole system and in the way the child is followed through the system. We have succeeded in doing so, and we are very pleased about that. At the same time, the purpose of the parental responsibility law will be changed so that there is no longer any doubt that the child's right to well-being will always prevail before parents' right to the child. In addition, consideration for the child is now at the heart of the law on the new family house. It is a great victory that children are now guaranteed a child-sacrifice contact person, that children are given the opportunity to be part of children's groups, that they are helped to have a sitter, so that we ensure that children are heard much more in their own cases and that children's legal certainty is respected. It is crucial that we have made sure that there are child-care competences in all parts of the system, including in the courts, where family law will in future settle the most complex and conflicting cases. A system that has so far reflected the low level of consideration for the child in family matters is the use of the court of law in enforcement proceedings. It has been crucial for us in the Enhedslisten that the role of the police in cases involving children is limited as much as possible and, as such, stopped altogether. Children are children. They are not a computer, a sofa or a car to be picked up by an official in uniform and handed over to the right owner, and it goes without saying that it is not for the best of the child when uniformed officials show up to take the child with them. With these draft laws, enforcement proceedings will in future be dealt with in family law and no longer in the court of law. From now on, there will always be a child-sacrifice present in an enforcement procedure, which must be organised so that it is the parents and not the child who are directly involved in the use of force. And most importantly, in future enforcement may only be carried out if it is deemed to be for the best of the child. In the Enhedslisten, we are absolutely convinced that the consideration of the child's well-being, which has at last been given a central place in the family justice system, will mean an important difference for the many children who have issues in their lives. That is why we are proud of this agreement, and we look forward to following the new family house and seeing how it will work in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115103610	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115103622	Thank you for the floor. The fact that divorce is a challenge and difficult to deal with goes further back in history than you might think. The ritual of marriage is designed in such a way that it is mentioned that marriage is entered into until death do you part. It was a provision introduced in 1897 because at that time there were too many divorces, and then you would like to remind people who entered into marriage that marriage was, then, until death you part. And in the tone and tone of 1918 by Emma Gad there are also quite long passages about how divorced spouses should treat each other in a reasonable way. So there is nothing to say about that, for example. The Folketing is also interested in these issues, and this is a very good agreement which has now been reached. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil said that one has had such an approach in the past, where one size fits all, as it is unfortunately also called in Danish, so it is very good to adapt now. There have been problems. It is good that there will be judicial review in the difficult cases where there is a need. It is good that there is focus on the child's best interests and an enhanced focus on the child's best interests, so you use the resources in the Family Courthouse where it makes sense to use them, i.e. where there is a high level of conflict or other special needs. We are also pleased that there are some changes in relation to the economy of families with children. For us, it is the case that the starting point for child benefit and child benefit must be to share proportionally according to the association arrangement. So there should be no incentive to speculate that the visiting parents should have relatively few days so that the home parents can receive child support. It can create and escalate conflicts and, if we disregard the formal, it is also fundamentally unreasonable. Some improvements are now being made in this area, because we are introducing the possibility of shared residence and therefore also of sharing child and young people's benefits. This is a good step in the direction we would like to see things progress. As the DF's rapporteur also mentioned, there have been discussions within the political family about how long the separation period should be. It is not the case that we cannot understand the arguments that have been put forward. Divorce can be confusing, it can be harsh, both for adults and for children, and it is, of course, quite elementaryly true that it is a good idea for that decision to mature, so that decisions are not taken prematurely. What we led into the negotiations was, of course, that the decision mostly does not come as a lightning bolt from a clear sky, and that in the vast majority of cases there have been some very, very thorough reflections all the way in the process. However, we welcome the agreement that has been made and we are of course happy to vote in favour of it, because overall it is a very good agreement that improves conditions in a large number of areas, both for adults in cases where there are not really major problems, and for adults and children also in the more complex cases. So we look forward to supporting this when we come to the third reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115104028	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115104037	Thank you. In the alternative, we also think it is a rather big day today. For while the world has moved on as it should now, we have worked very hard in the Ministry of Social Affairs together with the other parties to create a new divorce law in Denmark. And that is not a bad thing, because that is what we are paid for, and that is what we are elected for, but it is really nice when, for once, you really think you can do something good and do something that all parties can support and that means so much to so many people. There are, of course, a great many elements in this draft law, and a great many of them have already been explained by the previous rapporteurs. I would just like to mention one which has been extremely important to us in the Alternative, and that is that children should not be picked up from the bailiff. Well, you see it sometimes in the extreme nightmare scenarios that an anxious and screaming child has to be pulled out from under a table because one parent will not deliver it to the other. And I think it's traumatizing; I think it's one thing the child remembers for the rest of his life. And we've tried to make sure that doesn't happen again. We need to test it and see if we can get it all down to zero because it will never happen in Denmark. And that's one of the things we've been working on a lot. However, instead of repeating all the elements that I think other rapporteurs have set out very well, I would just like to say a few words about why I think we managed to do something that we are very pleased with. And that's because we've been good at taking the child's starting point in these negotiations. Of course, we have often discussed within the individual elements of the legislation whether this is fair for the mother, whether this is fair for the danger, how it will be experienced and how it will be related. And it is also creepingly important that this should be fair for the mothers and for the fathers, but there is one thing that is even more important, and that is that it is fair for the child in a situation where the child may be in the greatest crisis of his life at all. There we have been good at changing parties just marking and saying: Let's try to see this from the child's perspective, let's just make some kind of common mental journey into the mind of the pressed child and see how this will work, and how we do this most gently and most gentlely and most justly for it, as this is very much about. And that's the baby. And I think one of the reasons why we are happy with the work and political craftsmanship we have done here is that consideration for the child goes like a thread through all these elements of this bill. And I'm incredibly happy and a little bit proud of that. It is clear that we must be open to adjustments; there will of course be requests for amendments and adjustments, and that is something we must look at. But it is probably no surprise that in the alternative we are also happy with this bill and that we are going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115104351	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the radical rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115104405	I also think it is a very big day today when we first deal with two legislative proposals. The big thing today is that we have had a really good cooperation, the nine parties, the minister and the ministry, and that carries our work and our enthusiasm for what we are dealing with today, too. After all, it promises well for the future of the families who come into the situation that they need the legislation we are now discussing here in the Folketing. It is well known that the law that is now being replaced by this new law was a law that focused on both mother and father having the right to be with the children. It was quite ideal at the time of the adoption of the law, because there was much to promote the problem of equal opportunities and whether the danger had the same rights as mother in terms of association with the child. It's a perfectly valid point of view to have, but we just did the experience when we looked around in society that there were a lot of people who got stuck, not least the children, in the way it was managed. Of course, it is quite all right when parents can agree on it, but that is just not always the case in the real world. That is why many children have come into contact, and that is why we are now creating a totally new divorce law. It is not just a piece of legislation that is being changed. One of the legislative proposals we are discussing is in fact a proposal for a completely new law. It is the child's best thing that is always crucial, and that is the point of view that must be put everywhere when you have a process that leads to a divorce. The legislation also aims to strengthen parents' cooperation in order to focus the child's well-being. I expect a great deal of that too, because I believe that we, as politicians, can learn a great deal about what it takes to help families with problems of the nature of divorce. It is a huge, huge strain on the family as such and, above all, on the children who become involved in it. That is why we have also done a great deal to put the child at the centre of the legislation we are now dealing with, and we are talking a lot about the Children's Unit, whether the relevant qualifications are present with, among other things. children's experts, whether the child can get a contact person and whether the child can be followed by a sitter in the process if necessary. It's a dish the child has by, among other things. resolution of conflicts. So the child is really centered on a lot of points. But when divorces are to take place, it is fortunately the vast majority of divorces that go on fairly reasonable and take place in a good tone, where one takes account of one another, and that is why it is by far the majority that copes with it within the framework that the legislation now provides. We've been kind enough to call that the green trail. I think it is in the order of 80%. of the divorces that go that way. But there will still be disagreements, and of course you have to try to solve them, and that is what we call the yellow track, and it may concern half of those who are then left. Some problems have to be solved, and sometimes things go very wrong, and then there is a family law, a court of law. This is something new to think about, but we have been on a study trip in Oslo and among other things. see how they in Norway have implemented the model. We've been inspired by this, but we've also read about other countries' ways of doing this kind of job. It is the case that if parents do not agree, they can bring the decision that has been given to them into the House of Family Rights to family law and then the court takes office. I think it will be really, really educational and exciting to follow how this is going to work in the real world. But together it is a completely new system that we are implementing now, and I expect very much from it, because we have had what I would call exemplary cooperation between the Minister and the nine parties in the Folketing. I am sure that all nine parties will follow the implementation of the legislation with great interest and perseverance, and expect the Minister also to keep us informed of the lessons to come. But that's the kind of deal we make with each other. So I would like to sign for the cooperation that I, when I'm out in the country, boast of can happen at Christiansborg without the big trouble in the TV newspaper day after day. We can do it anytime we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115104903	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115104922	Thank you. The SF rapporteur in this area could not be here, but I have also been interested to follow the case and the negotiations, and we in the SF think that we have achieved a very, very good result. It is, after all, the implementation of the agreement on a new family law system, an agreement concluded by the governing parties and the other parties in the Folketing, including the SF. That is why, of course, we support both proposals. In the SF, as several of my colleagues have also mentioned, we are particularly pleased that the new family law system has as its main objective the focus of the child's best interests. The new purpose clause introduced by the proposal in the Parental Responsibility Act must ensure that the child's best interests and the child's right to well-being and protection are always weighted over other considerations in parental responsibility decisions. In other words, it is the basic support of the new law itself, and it is the idea that this very purpose should permeate the whole system. A large number of elements of the agreement reflect that objective. One of them is the special child unit, which becomes the child's own entrance into the new family law system. The children's unit must, on the one hand, follow and support the child during the proceedings and, on the other hand, ensure that the child's perspective is constantly and continuously taken into account throughout the process. At the same time, the Children's Unit also offers a contact person, the right to a sitter and information on the rights and opportunities of children's groups, conversations and other assistance that may be needed. These are all very good elements that we in SF are really happy to have become part of the new system. We also note that a large number of key organisations in this area, for example. The Children's Council, Children's Conditions and Mother's Aid are positive in relation to these very elements of the agreement. At the same time, it is also positive that the agreement makes it clear that the right of access should no longer be part of the family justice system. Today, cases relating to the enforcement of custody, the child's place of residence and association are being dealt with in the court of custody, where money claims are otherwise primarily involved. We have long in the SF felt that it was completely unreasonable to the children that this was the system to be dragged through. In the new family law system, cases are lifted away from the court and into family law as part of a coherent and holistic process. Parental conflicts about association and the possible execution of association are incredibly damaging to the child. When parents'conflicts overshadow the child's consideration, it is never for the child's good. We are now trying to settle this with the agreement, so that it is always the child's best interests that are taken into account. And the agreement states that the main condition for, for example, to be able to perform a meeting is that this can only be done with regard to the child and that enforcement must take care of the child's best interests. There are also a large number of other elements that could be mentioned, which are at the heart of the new system: firstly, the new approach with a division into yellow, green and red tracks, respectively, to ensure the proper search for a coherent course in the House of Family Rights and the decisions of the more complex cases in family law; secondly, a general greater consideration of the many who find solutions themselves, among other things. Thirdly, a series of counselling and mediation services where there are conflicts or where there is a need to prevent them from arising; and fourth, the major focus on creating transparent and predictable processes for families and strengthening cooperation between the family and social systems in order to ensure holistic responses. At the same time, there are also some elements that we in the SF are not the main supporters of, but, as is the case in all agreements, it is about finding compromises. The new agreement introduces a reflection period of 3 months, which covers the fact that a married couple with children who want a divorce will now have to wait 3 months before the divorce is completed. The argument is that it is for the best of the child and that it must provide parents with time for thought, among other things. through advice. Both parents are resident parents during the period, even if they do not live together, and parents must go through a mandatory digital process that provides knowledge of the importance of the breakup to the child and how best to support the child in that situation. We are not in favour of the period of reflection. We removed the six months of reflection when we sat in government, and we thought that decision was the right one. We do not think that the state should go in and decide how long to wait for a divorce. There are limits to what the state should interfere with. But having said that, we really appreciate all the other things in the agreement, especially putting the child's best interests at the top. Of course, we can support both proposals. And then I should also say to my colleague, Trine Torp, that she has been very pleased and very happy with the agreement, to the colleagues of the other parties and the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115105456	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115105507	Thank you. The Conservatives are also very happy, together with a united Parliament, to be able to agree to the Bill on the Family Court House. One out of every three children finds that their parents break up, and they are affected in different ways. For us, it has been important that consideration of the child's best interests came first, and it is also clear from the objective clause that the child's best is at the heart of the law. Each year, the system deals with up to 100,000 cases, of which 37,000 are more complicated and heavy. These are the so - called yellow and red cases. Whether things are in one color or another, it is a big upheaval for the parties involved, for Mom and for Dad, and not least for the children. That is why it is important for us to introduce with this bill a system that is flexible and that takes account of the weaker party in a family break, namely the child. The bill is ambitious in several ways. A quick process is planned with short deadlines so that cases do not collect dust on desks, but ensure that families move forward quickly in a difficult time. The children's unit is also an exciting innovation designed to provide children with their own access to advice and support. The bill strengthens the child's voice and the child's best interests, which we welcome. As I said, we stress that the starting point is the child's best, and both parents can, in the event of family failure, and if they agree on it, have a common residence. Thus, we ensure that one parent cannot feel to be a worse parent than the other. It's good to ensure equality. With the bill here, there will be no direct divorce if there are underage children. From 1 April next year, a reflection period of 3 months will be built in before the divorce is final. On the Conservative side, we look forward to following the work on the Family Court House and, as I said, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115105728	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no more rapporteurs, so that is the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115105740	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the very good reception given to the legislative proposals in this Chamber today. It is, of course, the two draft laws on a single family law system that are also commonly referred to as the divorce system, even though it is, of course, also a break between people who are not married. We have listened to each other along the way, we have adjusted and together we have found new solutions, and in different ways I know that we are all happy with the result. I also think that the debate in the House today bears witness to this. About one in three children during their childhood experience that the parents break up, and it turns the world upside down for these children. Fortunately, many find that over time their parents are able to work together to build a good everyday life for the child based on an equal parenthood. But I also believe that we all know the parents or the couple of friends who are otherwise well-functioning and caring parents, but where the divorce does not completely escape the roof and instead develops into a long-term struggle where the child is squeezed and where the child is abandoned. Our agreement, the bill and the creation of the Family Court House and family law must make a difference to these children, move them from being left on the sidelines to working with the family having the child at the center. For the most vulnerable children too, reform must make a real difference. For the child, who is struggling not only with a broken family but also with social problems, we must work in a multidisciplinary way and always put the child's interests first in cooperation with the social authorities. The heart of the reform is a brand new child unit in the Family Court House, where the child can get support, advice and a contact person. The child unit ensures that the child gets through the process safely, but also that the child is actually heard, and that the work with the family is based on the well-being of the child and the family. The work with the family is essential, because we cannot create a better everyday life for the child unless we help the child's parents. So in the new family law system the family does not meet with a standard solution, and they are not thrown from one authority to another to resolve their differences. Instead, family matters are dealt with together on the basis of the individual child and the individual family. The families meet with tools for conflict management and advice to help them find the solution that is best for their children, not only in the specific situation, but also in their future parenthood. I am very much looking forward to opening the doors to a new unified family justice system on 1 April. I am looking forward to a system in which consideration for the child is always at the top, where we end up with the feeling of families being throwing ball between authorities and courts, and where we ensure a clear legal approach for the benefit of legal certainty. So, once again, I would like to sign up for the process for all of you and, of course, I am at your disposal to answer any questions that the committee may wish to clarify during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110046	Thank you. There's a comment. Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110052	Thank you. We have one outstanding issue, I also mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech, and this is about the economy. And when it's significant, it's because more than a third of all conflicts between parents are about economy according to a study that Children's Terms have done, and we've been familiar with that in the process. The Minister also sits on the government's coordination committee, and I therefore allow myself to ask this question, which, after all, goes a little across the resorts. The legislative programme states that in February we will be dealing with a bill on the economy and child pay, and I would just like to ask the Minister's position on this with the backwards. This has been discussed a great deal in the negotiations in connection with these legislative proposals. Will the new rules on child pay also apply to parents who have been divorced before the date of entry into force of the law, with the result that divorce parents, who have based their entire economy in the way things look today, are getting their finances upset, or is the Minister, like us in the Social Democratic Party, in favour of the cut-off date meaning that these rules only apply to families where they are divorced after the cut-off date?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110205	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110207	Thank you. I must say that I have not seen the specific legislative proposal, but it is clear that there are some challenges in terms of creating a system which can actually also work in practice and where there is at least such a technical desire to create a uniform approach. However, if you ask me about my political position, my political opinion is that we should be careful to start ripping up families who have made an agreement at the moment and in which we can therefore risk having a lot of new conflicts if it is that we have a system that goes backwards. So just to make it clear: I have not seen the legislative proposal yet, but my position is that we must pay close attention to what is going on backwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110302	Well, I'm really glad to hear that. I mean, it would be a huge disaster if we rip up so many families' finances with a mess. I think we should not just be a little cautious, but be extremely careful about that. It is in the field of the Ministry of Taxation, but now the Minister is on the Coordination Committee, I would like to ask the Minister whether it would be possible for the conciliation circle to be convened so that we can discuss these matters before the legislative proposal arrives, because it is not yet available. In other words, there is a possibility that we can actually proceed a little thoroughly, possibly with a few ministers at the end of the table, and I shall not interfere with that. It is only because I think that we have had such a pretty process about this that it would be nice if we could conclude by also saying in agreement that, of course, there is security and security for the family economy, and we are not doing anything about families that have already based their economy on the situation that is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110402	It is, of course, in the hands of another minister, and that is why it will also be the tax minister who will have to call the rapporteurs with whom he now seems to want to discuss it here. It's the tax minister's resort, and that's not something I'm getting involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110419	Thank you. I have to ask, in the interests of safety, if anyone else wishes to speak. There isn't. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110455	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115110504	With this motion for a resolution, the Radical Left is proposing that the government be required in this Assembly to table a bill to abolish the requirement that children over the age of 8 should undergo an assessment of whether there is a basis for successful integration in Denmark before they can live in Denmark with their parents. Of course, it is not in any way new to me that the Radical Left is opposed to the integration requirement when it comes to matters of family reunification with children, and I do not think it comes as a great surprise when I start by saying that the government cannot support this resolution. We cannot do this because we in the government believe that the starting point of the current rules is quite reasonable. It is sensible to ensure that children who have to live in Denmark have the prerequisites for integration. This is important in terms of integration in general, but also for the sake of the children themselves. But I will come back to that a little later. I would just like to say a few words first about what kind of rule it is and why we have it. We have the rules in force because we have a clear starting point that a child over the age of 8, who has both a parent in this country and a parent in the country of origin, can only be brought together in the family if, as is stated in the Aliens Act, there is a basis for the successful integration of the child in Denmark. I think it should be borne in mind why a broad majority in the Folketing adopted these rules back in 2004. The fact was that at that time a special pattern of immigration was seen in which parents deliberately kept their children in their country of origin for as long as possible for fear that the children would become too Danish. The parents did not want their children to be influenced by Danish standards and values while they were children, and therefore perhaps the children were only brought to Denmark when they were almost adults, although the children could have come to Denmark much earlier. It goes without saying that everything else is harder to settle down in Denmark, for example, if you have gone to a school and that is what we have often referred to, because that is what was the problem of a Koran school in, for example. Pakistan throughout her childhood. Therefore, the Folketing introduced a rule that children who came here much later than their parents should be assessed for integration. When the rules were introduced, the integration requirement was made only if the application for family reunification was submitted later than 2 years from the date on which it could have been applied for. It was thus simplified that an application made within a two-year period meant that parents did not try to avoid the child being marked by Danish standards and values. However, with the so-called Genc judgment of spring 2016, the European Court of Justice found that the 2-year rule was not proportional. This meant that we had to repeal the two-year rule if we wanted to maintain the starting point that, for the sake of integration in this country, the parents' act should be required. That is what the government wanted in 2016, and we continue to do so, which is why it is quite clear today that all children over the age of 8 must be assessed for integration. As I said at the outset, the government believes that the starting point of these rules is perfectly reasonable and that is why we do not intend to abolish the integration requirement. For the government, it is crucial to maintain that we create the best possible basis for integration for family-run children in Denmark, and it is therefore the government's position that minors aliens living in Denmark should, as far as possible, come here as early as possible and have as much of their upbringing in the country as possible. The more formal years a child spends abroad, the harder everything else becomes just to ensure successful integration in this country. If we abolish the integration requirement, it will have the consequence that one can keep one's children in the homeland in the formative years and then only bring them to Denmark when they have been shaped by values which in some cases are very far from ours. The government therefore believes that it is necessary that we have rules that ensure that we can integrate children who must have their lives in Denmark in the best possible way, and therefore the government cannot support the proposal to abolish the integration requirement. I am, of course, well aware that we have this discussion today, because the media have recently described a large number of cases in which a foreign woman who is typically married to a Danish man has not been able to have her special child brought together in Denmark. In general terms, I would like to point out that there is often more to the cases than what appears in the media coverage. So you don't necessarily know the whole thing if you're a reader. In my view, it is a wrong premise when these cases are presented in such a way that it is the rules that divide families. In this respect, I would like to make it quite clear that according to the rules in force, it is therefore the case that an integration assessment is not normally carried out at all if parents and children come to Denmark with the aim of continuing an existing actual family life. In other words, if mother and child come together, and if mother and child have lived together in their home country without father, the integration requirement will not normally be imposed at all. But what we typically see in these cases, which the media then describe, is that they are families that have actually let themselves be separated, by the fact that a parent, typically the mother, has gone to Denmark and has left his child in the home country and then only later to want the child here. Of course, I fully understand that in these cases that we have heard about in the media, families have a desire for a different outcome, but I must also say that I am fully confident that the immigration authorities are carrying out a thorough examination of the cases and, of course, I trust that the competent authorities will deal with them completely according to the rules. But overall, in my view and in the view of the government, the reason for the rules is quite right. This gives you the incentive not to keep your child in the home country. Having said that, it is of course a pity that the parent who finds a new spouse in this country has not in all cases fully understood the consequences of the choice to leave his child in the country of origin and only seek family reunification at a later stage. I have therefore also asked my ministry to see whether it is possible to clarify to parents the consequences of not bringing children here, while at the same time being brought together as a family for a new spouse. In other words, to guide something better. In addition, I have also asked the Ministry to look into whether the rules can be adjusted so that they address even more precisely the problem they created to solve. However, I would like to stress once again that it is crucial for me that we maintain the core of the rules, namely that we have rules that ensure that we provide the best possible basis for integration for the children who are brought together to parents in this country. I believe that we owe this to ourselves as a society, so that we ensure that the cohesion of Denmark is still intact, but we also owe it to the children whose future is to be in this country, and that is why, as a government, we cannot support the Radical Left's proposal to abolish the integration requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111419	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Andreas Steenberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111429	Thank you for reviewing the government's position, which unfortunately does not surprise me. I've been asking a lot about this Koran school thing and where these kids come from, and it turns out that it's a few of those who have been searching for the last two years that have come from Muslim countries. I have also asked how many children there have been at Koran school, but you cannot tell that either, because there have probably been none. So this whole Koran school argument is a claim and a scare picture that the government has built up and that has been built up for almost 15 years since this started. It doesn't really have a team. When you can see that no children from Muslim countries have attended Koran school at all, why can't you see that those you show are Danish citizens' children who can be integrated? Why can't you see that when you look at the facts, you don't hit the point at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111537	Now I'm usually familiar with sir. Andreas Steenberg as a rather analytical person, and therefore I am actually surprised that Mr. Andreas Steenberg does not include in his equation that it might be that one has just adapted to the rules if one now comes from some of the countries which Mr. Andreas Steenberg mentions, in other words Muslim countries, where, in the past, you left your children on for example. Koran schools then take them to Denmark only when they were impervious to Danish standards and values. Well, then, I guess Mr. Andreas Steenberg may also owe a reply to the children who were then held in Koran schools sent on re-educational trips. Does it matter? I'm sorry, sir. Andreas Steenberg in his eagerness to try to plead for these matters now. I just have to say, actually, I'm usually familiar with sir. Andreas Steenberg well enough to know that he usually gets into things well and deeply. But I simply mean this matter, Mr. Andreas Steenberg missed the details.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111644	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111648	I am not surprised that the Minister thinks so. After all, I have seen some of the answers from 2004, which the government gave at the time, in discussions on social media with the minister's adviser, it was the same government, but yet another minister was there and there was no record of either reeducational trips or Koran schools. It has just been assumed that if children didn't arrive until they were 16 years old and 17 years old, that would have to be the reason. It has never been documented, and that is why I think I have, unfortunately, got a pretty good idea of it. That is why I note that the Minister says yes, that is a claim. What we can see from the facts in relation to the 62 children who have been expelled since the law was tightened in 2016 is that they are not Koran school children. That is why I think you should consider whether those children could not be allowed to be here with their parents, one of whom is Danish citizen in all cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111749	I have to say that I actually find it sad that Mr. Andreas Steenberg in this way says it's okay if you just leave children in koran schools because they don't count in Mr. Koran. Andreas Steenberg's equation, and that the fact that some children can be sent on reeducation trips, is fine, because that does not count in Mr. Andreas Steenberg's equation. I have to admit, for once, I think that Mr. Andreas Steenberg sees something one-eyed on a case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111815	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111819	Speaking of analytical abilities, I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not see any really good reasons why, for example, he should be able to do so. a Thai woman who finds a Danish man leaves her 10-year-old son for a period in Thailand before she decides to take him to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111843	I think that if you intend to be brought together in Denmark and therefore want to live your life in Denmark, you should bring your children with you. I'll tell you what. I think so. And I think it's perfectly natural that you bring your baby. I think it is wrong and I think it is strange to leave your children for 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 years, for example. Thailand, before you choose to bring a child here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111914	The minister couldn't do that. I don't really understand that, since we're talking about analytical abilities. If, for example, you're gonna have to... comes from Thailand and marries a Danish man in Denmark and divorces after e.g. 2 years, can you just stay in Denmark, and can the child you have taken to Denmark immediately, because you have to be with that child, be allowed to stay in Denmark and stay among your new companions? Because then the Minister's statement makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115111952	It is clear that if you cancel your marriage, you have to have some kind of basis for staying here. It could be a job. But it is clear that if you no longer have a basis for being here, if the original basis falls, then of course you have to leave Denmark again. But it's perfectly natural to take your child with you. I have to admit, therefore, that I simply do not agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Søren Søndergaard in that you have to leave your child for example. Thailand for a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112019	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112022	Thank you. I actually know more, it is so mainly Americans who have become Danish married and who have chosen to move to Denmark. They have only established themselves, and then they have had their children over once they had established themselves. It is quite common for people to do so because they want to establish their lives before they bring the children over, because that period can be rather chaotic to adapt to for a child. So it is actually quite common that it occurs. It's just to get it right. If it then occurs and you haven't gotten into the cases beforehand from home, can it be right that you should be punished for it, by the Danish state saying: We split up your family because you haven't been aware enough of what the Danish rules are? I would like to ask the Minister that. I think the Minister opened the door to the possibility that perhaps there might be some reason to look at whether the legislation is appropriate, so could the Minister unfold it a little more and say whether we can expect any adjustments to be made to this problem, which is of particular concern to some of these Thai children?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112128	Firstly, I would like to challenge the rapporteur's speech about saying that families are being broken up. That is simply not correct. What is correct is that the family has allowed itself to be separated where, for example, the mother. has travelled to Denmark, but has left the child in Thailand. So it is not the Danish authorities that divide families, it is families that separate themselves, and so there is a significant difference. And yes, I think you have an obligation to understand the rules when you make such a big decision to live your life in a completely different country, in a completely different continent, you want to replant yourself, if you have to say so, and then you have to understand the rules of what happens to my child afterwards. Frankly, I think that is quite natural. For such simple family reunification rules are not already in place, so there you have gotten to the rules, and then you have to expect to get better into the rules on when and how to bring your child along. But, I say at the same time, we'd like to see if there could be anything in counselling better than these women, as they typically are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112247	Sir. Andreas Steenberg has a point when he points to the numbers. The aim of the legislation, which was introduced at the time, has not been achieved. When we look at the figures and see that the vast majority of the children who are then sought family reunification are not Muslim children, there is one point in the fact that this legislation goes beyond what was actually intended. So there is good reason for not pointing the finger at anyone, because we can see that this has not worked out that you are not just looking at more guidance. What if still gone, even though we are doing more guidance, some have not been informed? I do not understand why we have to be punished for not being well informed. One thing is that one can say that it was not so clever and that he should have read on, but when one actually punishes it by saying that his child cannot be allowed to live with him, then one splits a family apart. Then you might ask where the blame lies, but in the end it doesn't matter, in the end it's our responsibility as a state to ensure that we don't tear families apart. Doesn't the Minister think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112347	Again, it's the families that let themselves be separated. Having said that, you actually have an obligation in all life's relationships to understand rules yourself. It doesn't matter if you live in Denmark, it doesn't matter what it's about, because that's the way it is, and that's from tax legislation to divorces, to house purchases, to speed rules. You can't say that because you didn't get to know the rules, it's the state's fault. I don't think that's gonna last. I'll tell you what. As to whether it is possible to say that it is completely wrong, because not so many people from Muslim countries seem to have postponed the family reunification application, I would say that this is not the way to put it up, because it could be precisely because they have adapted to the rules. So it is simply a falsum when you try to set it up that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112434	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112439	I can hear from the Minister that she is very, very upset and very angry and very strict in relation to this discussion. I actually understand this, because what is the fact is that there are a number of examples, a number of cases which are completely strange and show the oddness of the consequences of this legislation, where there are children who are fully integrated and live in a local community and work well with their families and their comrades and their school community protests that they must be expelled and are then expelled, because this so-called integration assessment opposes them, despite the fact that it is against common sense. Can the Minister not see that she has a problem with her legislation in relation to the way it works?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112547	First of all, I am now not upset or angry, and we cannot do that at all when we are in the company of Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen it's always a pleasure. Having said that, the government's starting point is that we actually believe that the rules are good enough, but it may be that it requires some adjustments in relation to, for example. guidance. Because there seem to be some for whom it has not been clear that you should bring your child from the beginning. But if these women had just brought their children from the beginning instead of leaving them in Thailand, we would never have been here in these problems. That's what's so sad about these cases. I have to say, I think it is. It has never been the intention, for example, that there should be a ban on the use of hormones. were Thai girls who should not be able to come to Denmark, and it is the intention that you should be aware of what rules apply and that you should ensure that you take your child with you. For what we saw earlier, i.e. that children were left behind, for example. in Pakistan, e.g. in Somalia at Koran schools or sent children on reeducation trips, I do not believe that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen supports and thinks is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112710	No, no, I do not, but the discussion must then go on how to prevent it and whether it is the right method used here, where you hit far, much wider and will hit a large number of other families. This is one of the things I think is a little serious. For example: BT today has a criticism from Amnesty International in relation to a very specific case in which they demonstrate that a large number of conventions and a lot of legislation are being violated, because the unity of the family is an important prerequisite for looking at how we are going to deal with these things. The splitting up of families is a very serious thing, and that is what we are doing in these cases. You have a family with, for example. a Thai woman who is married to a Danish man. She has her child from a previous marriage with her and is forced out, even though he is working well, and comes down to an uncertain future, for example. Somewhere else. It is then, I think, seriously in relation to the best interests of that child, in relation to the unity of the family, i.e. that families are not torn apart. Wouldn't the Minister forgive me?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112828	It is a serious matter, it is a very serious matter. I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Holger K. Nielsen i. But then I can also hear that sir... Holger K. Nielsen agrees with me and the government that it is also a serious matter if you leave your children in Koran schools for a number of years or if you send your children on reeducation trips. It was precisely the intention at the beginning that we would try to contain that. I can actually hear that, sir. Holger K. Nielsen acknowledges. I also hear a small recognition that there is therefore a good reason why we have these rules and that what we saw, among other things, is what we saw. Maybe you should try to look at it, if you could guide something better. This is unhappy, and there's no one I can't imagine there's anyone who thinks you shouldn't be able to live with your child in this way. But I just have to say that you have to bring that child from the beginning. If the child had been brought here from the beginning, we would not have been here today, I would say, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112931	Thank you very much to the Minister for today's work. We shall now proceed to the rapporteurs, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115112948	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Radical Left for raising this debate. More and more Danes travel and work abroad, more and more foreigners travel and work in Denmark, and it is therefore natural that more and more people also fall in love across borders. Many also have a new marriage mate, and some of the new marriage mates have one or more children from previous relationships, and this is probably quite natural. Some couples want to settle abroad, others choose Denmark. We already have excellent legislation to ensure that foreign spouses can come to Denmark if they comply with a number of rules. Until a few years ago, we also had a rule that they could take their children to Denmark if only they came within 2 years of their mother or father. This 2-year rule was necessary and good because it helped to ensure that the children were not raised by grandparents or other relatives and first came as big teenagers. This was something we saw examples of, and it was neither good for the children nor for the opportunities for our society to integrate the children properly into Denmark. I also feel that if you marry a new woman, you take the whole package, even if there are children on yellow plates. Two years ago, the European Court of Justice unfortunately decided that our legislation was contrary to an old agreement we have with the Turkish Government, and in the wake of this judgment we then changed the rules in the summer of 2016. Now the 2-year rule is gone. On the other hand, all children over the age of 8 must be assessed for integration. In recent weeks there has been a great deal of publicity about a number of individual cases, including: Thai girls have been refused family reunification. I am not going to stand here on the platform and deal with these individual cases, and certainly not cases that I have not read, but only from publicity in the media, but generally the decisions seem both surprising and unreasonable to me. I have therefore re-read the 2016 legislation. In this I think it is actually very clear what the emphasis should be on in these assessments, and frankly I cannot understand how these applications can end up with refusals after they have been dealt with both by officials and by the independent board of foreigners. We have therefore asked the Minister to explain in detail how these integration assessments are carried out, how the various factors are actually weighed against each other, and when we know that we can also learn more about whether and what needs to be changed in concrete terms. I sent the question on 15 October but have not received an answer yet. It is, of course, a pity that it has to take so long. There is a need to get started on an evaluation of these rules as soon as possible rather today than tomorrow. We need to assess whether one or more elements of the assessments need to be changed and whether some elements are given too much weight compared with others. However, all this does not change the fact that there should still be a requirement for the assessment of integration of children, and that is why the Social Democrats cannot support this motion for a resolution, which, of course, completely removes the assessment. With this proposal, we risk children being raised again by relatives in their home country and only come to Denmark as big teenagers several years after their mother or father, and of course that cannot be done. It is quite reasonable that we as a society should say to our new fellow citizens that they are welcome in Denmark, but that we would also like to ask them to bring their children, if not on the same plane, then as soon as possible. So the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution, but we are still waiting for a reply from the Minister so that we can have a more thorough discussion about whether there is a possibility of adjusting the administration within the legal framework or whether there is a need for precise legislative action, or whether it is only a question of guidance, as we can hear from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113325	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113332	I have noticed in the media that the Social Democratic Party has also used this argument with Koran schools and reeducational trips, and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye not today. Is this an indication that the Social Democratic Party has also come to the realization that based on all the answers we have received from the Ministry that this law has nothing to do with Koran schools, that at least there is no evidence that it has prevented any Koran school children from coming? Because if you've come to that realization, why won't you help remove this assessment requirement so that Danish citizens can have their family here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113416	I do not know any children who have been to Koran school, but I know of several examples of children from 2004 when they had the discussions, but also from later years who have remained in their parents' home country, among others. to be brought up by grandparents or other relatives in order not to be brought up as Danes. I think that is unreasonable, and I think it is quite reasonable that as a society we say: Welcome to Denmark, you are very welcome, and if you have some children, get them straight with you as soon as possible • of course both for the child's sake, because the child needs a Danish upbringing if the future is in Denmark, but also for the sake of Danish society. With this resolution, I fear a little that we will be put back in the ludo, that we will be back before 2004 in a situation where we will be able to leave relatives again, for example. Grandparents, raise the kids. I do not think that is sensible. I'd rather look a little more specifically at how these assessments are made, how these moments are weighed against each other. It may well be that, with a slightly more precise change in legislation, the objective can be achieved instead of what I consider to be a little drastic, that is to say, to remove the assessments altogether.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113528	But it's just never been documented that it's a problem, that is, that it, sir. Mattias Tesfaye stands and says, has been the case. It has been documented that there were a number of children who were 17 years old, but it could be that they came 1⁄2 years after the parents. Well, this problem has never been seen out of the numbers. So you prevent Danish citizens from living in Denmark with their family on the basis of some arguments that are not documented. Can't the Social Democrats see that this is a symbolic law that doesn't work in relation to it, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye says?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113610	I can see from the media coverage that there are several children who do not come on the same plane as their parents and that some of them have been in their country of origin for several years. I think that in itself is problematic. I can also see from the answers that come from the Ministry that over the last three years there have been 4 000 applications for family reunification for a child over 8 years and under 15 years of age and of the 4 000 have been rejected because of an integration assessment that has fallen negatively. I also think it is part of the discussion that by far, by far, most applications end up with a residence permit and that a small minority ends up without a residence permit. It may still be that there is something in the legislation that needs to be changed.I will not reject that at all, but I just don't think it's fair like giving the impression that we now have a rule that makes it difficult or impossible to have children for Denmark. The main rule is, of course, that children come with their parents and thus get a residence permit completely without problems, and that is really good. I fear that you are gambling with the very nice percentage, that is, the nice figure for how many children are dating their parents, if we completely remove this integration assessment; then I could fear that there would be more who would say: You know what, Grandma and Grandpa, now you take care of the upbringing, and then we get the daughter to Denmark when she is a teenager.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113731	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113736	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I just need to understand what the Social Democrats intend to do. I understand, of course, that a question has been put to the Minister. I have also had occasion to see the question myself. I think it is an excellent question that has been asked, and I also think it is questionable that it should take so long to answer it. However, is the way in which the social democracy believes that the way in which the legislation is administered is wrong? Is that what I need to understand? Or is it thought that there may be something in the legislation itself that needs to be changed? After all, the task in the administration of legislation does not lie with us politicians for good reasons. So I just need to understand the nuances of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115113819	Thank you for the question. We have received a reply from the Minister from 11 October 2018 to Question No. 9, in which the Minister describes the emphasis placed by the authorities, and these are references to the legislation we adopted in 2016. It says: the child's age, length and nature of the child's stay, the child's linguistic knowledge, the parent's intentions to leave the child in the country of origin, so it was about the child being brought up according to the culture and customs of the country of origin, or was there any other consideration to take into account? When I read that law from 2016, I must admit that I think we have adopted the right legislation. I'd rather have had it before the verdict. Now that we cannot have it because of the ruling of the European Court of Justice, I think this legislation actually looks quite good. That's why, of course, I'm interested in how these moments are weighed against each other. Is there one element in itself that is decisive for refusal? If that is the practice in the administration, then I think we should discuss whether one moment can be decisive. I can at least see from some of the answers that the authorities attach great importance to the period of time the child has been away. I think that is a reasonable political discussion: should it weigh so heavily if therefore I await the answer to the question we have asked on 15 October, because I believe and hope that with either clarification of the administration it is not certain that it will require legislative changes or a change of direction for applicants to come to terms with and achieve both considerations. This means that neither the relatives should raise the children, nor that we can see these individual cases that make no sense to any of us; I fully admit that. I just think this proposal is a little drastic because, if you remove the assessment, it really means that children can come as big teenagers and may have been raised in some other countries, and that is not in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114005	The rapporteur forces the President to intervene if he does not sometimes look down on the display. When it's red, time's up. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114016	Thank you. Now, of course, we do not know what the mention has been made in relation to the specific case of Mint, nor do we need to discuss specific cases, but what I have been able to read, and it could have been in any case, is that there are, among other things. emphasis is placed on the fact that some information from parents may not be so consistent. Then I think a little bit: yes, and there may be many reasons for that, among other things. that you may be super confused about what the law is and that you are afraid you will give an answer that may be counterproductive to your case and so on. etc. So I would also like to ask the rapporteur: is this a criterion that we should take so seriously that it can lead to a rejection that perhaps unconsistent information has been given in such a process?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114114	I do not think it should in itself be possible to reject the fact that unconsistent information has been given in connection with an application, but I understand that the authorities also have, in fact, a rather nice and distinguished administrative practice in Denmark and a good administrative law, which also applies in these cases. So I'm not really so worried about it, and I would be skeptical about having to sort out some special rules on how we manage these cases in terms of how we manage everything else in our society. It is, of course, crucial that the administrative law is observed, but I do not have the impression that it has not been complied with in these cases either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114151	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114154	But I still think it is important to look at what the reality is, so the truth is concrete, as a wise man once said. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye says that the Social Democracy will look at different options to change this. I would actually like to see some more concrete proposals on what they are and when they will be done. Will it be started even now before the elections, or will it wait until after the elections? But basically, how is it possible that a young person who goes to school in Denmark speaks Danish, has Danish comrades, lives in the community, who backs the person, where the teachers support him or her, is not integral? [Sound emission]... as we see in these cases, and where, like you think, something is totally wrong with this legislation, since you can come to such a conclusion. I shall not go in and say how it has been managed, but it must then be the legislation that is wrong with something that can be managed in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114308	As I also said in my speech, I was both surprised by these decisions and also immediately, as I have read in the media, that they seem unreasonable, and that is why we have also asked a question called Question 33 asking the Minister to explain how integration assessments are carried out in practice, including the points that are being emphasised, whether all the factors weigh equally heavily and describe the typical examples of decisions that lead to refusal and residence permits respectively. I look forward to seeing that answer because I believe that it can qualify the discussions a little if we find out what is practically making the applications end up with a rejection. Well, there's an application coming into one end of a black box, and then there's a refusal coming out on the other end. We want to open the lid and look into the box and see where it is the chain jumps off. What the Radical Left is proposing with this motion for a resolution is to completely remove the box and then simply say that an application becomes a residence permit without assessment, and I do not think that is sensible. So we look forward to seeing the answer to question 33 because I think that it can qualify the discussion about what it is that needs to be changed in the law if there is a need to change something in the law if it is not just something in the administration of the law that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114429	But in that box there's a specific human being. That's also the problem in much of this, that you can't just throw it in some boxes, some closed boxes, etc. However, would the rapporteur not agree that there is also something here that is called consideration for the best interests of the child and that it is also an essential part of the legislation to be adopted and that it is also an essential part of the Convention obligations that we have? The unity of the family is an essential part of it, and it must also play a role in the way in which these matters are assessed, and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye does not agree that although we agree that it is bad about Koran schools and re-education camps I fully agree with it that one should then be very careful if one then implements legislation that has far, far more far-reaching consequences for a lot of other people, as is the case here? In other words, there may be other ways of dealing with that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114534	We must, of course, ensure the unity of the family, as we have also committed ourselves to in the Convention on Human Rights, and we must, of course, ensure the best interests of the child, as we have committed ourselves to in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but I cannot see from the legislation we have adopted that this would be contrary to either the Convention on the Rights of the Child or the European Convention on Human Rights. I fully agree with the SF rapporteur that we should bear in mind that these are real people, but we should also bear in mind that we live in a rule of law, and it is not the people who have been on the front page of the morning magazines who have to define who gets a residence permit in Denmark. We need to have some paragraphs that define it, regardless of whether it is girls or boys, whether they come from Muslim countries or non-Muslim countries. It has to be independent of it. That is why we are a little interested in what is in that law and how it is managed, and we are just saying in all humility: let us just find out how those decisions are made, what is being emphasised before we just decide to completely remove the assessments, as is the case in this motion for a resolution. I actually think it's a little bit like just shooting from the hip and then not giving a shit about the 3,000 kids who have been granted a residence permit for the last 3 years. They're not part of the papers. They've been granted a residence permit because they've arrived pretty quickly. What will happen to the 3 000 children if they simply remove the integration assessments? Can the Radical Left guarantee that none of the 3,000 would have been raised by relatives in their country of origin? I think that we are gambling with the lives and future of a great many children, because there are a few children who I also think have had an unfair decision, but who have been in the newspaper, and I think that there is a responsibility for us as Members of Parliament to keep our tongues straight, even when it blows in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114716	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114720	Now the Socialist rapporteur has said on several occasions that he knows only the press, but as Members of Parliament we sometimes get some closed briefings, some confidential briefings, and of course Mattias Tesfaye has also received them, and of course Mattias Tesfaye must not deal with them here because, as I said, they are confidential. However, I would like to ask Mattias Tesfaye if Mattias Tesfaye has received any argument at any level from the Minister that the way the legislation is administered is in line with fair and reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114800	I think that the most important question I have asked is that I have asked four questions, and I have received three answers. I still need answers. I have received an answer to how many of this is about and a number of other answers, but what I have not received is how the assessments are made. That is what is at the heart of the matter. Because I think that most people, when they sit down and read the law of 2016, will agree with me that it seems obvious right that we make concrete and individual assessments after weighing a number of matters. And we can also see from the figures that the vast majority get residence permits. We can also see from the stories, both those we can tell about here in the Chamber, and those we cannot tell about, that there is also something that surprises us a little and which also seems unreasonable to me. But instead of completely abolishing the assessments, we would then like to get an answer to the latter, i.e. question 33, where we find out how these decisions are made, what is emphasized, what are the factors that weigh how much, because that is what makes us wiser whether there is something that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114859	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, there are no more brief remarks. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115114909	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we understand that it can be difficult for a family to understand legislation and rules on foreigners. We understand that many of the cases mentioned create frustration in the public and those who want to be in Denmark but who are refused to be in Denmark. Therefore, Dansk Folkeparti also discusses the possibility of a limited derogation in relation to the general rules. However, it is also important to say that it must be limited if it is an option and that the general rules must be maintained basically. It is also important to have said that, because I do not think that this has really been part of the public debate, and I think that the public debate has been somewhat unmanageable on some points, that the Danish People's Party is therefore not in favour of free immigration, even from Thailand, the Philippines or China. And it has nothing to do with the fact that we don't think it's nice and friendly and sympathetic people; it has something to do with the fact that we have the attitude in the Danish People's Party, that wherever you come from, there must be some rules, there must be some requirements, and when there are some rules and there are some requirements, everything else will also mean that in some cases you will encounter some who are sorted out, some who are told that they are not able to stay in Denmark. This can only be avoided if we say in general terms that there are some areas where there are no requirements at all, where there are no rules in the legislation at all, and of course there must be. If you have it, there will also be cases from time to time and there will be cases where people and I have also met some of them, talked to some who have met them, etc., read about their cases in parliamentary documents and heard about them in the Parliamentary Chamber, but also from the media who are friendly and sympathetic, but who will come in a situation where they will be refused residence in Denmark because there are some requirements, there are some rules that they do not meet. And just to say what is, it can't be any different. Having said that, however, we are happy to discuss the possibility of a limited derogation, which may be the most viable way forward in order to solve some of the challenges that exist. But in addition to discussing it, we also think that these cases have shown that there may be a need to discuss some other things. I also think that some of the cases that have been promoted, and not only the cases that have been brought forward now, but also over the years, have shown that there is a gap in Danish legislation. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is problematic that there are children and young people who are allowed to attend schools in Denmark without having, one must assume, a legal residence in Denmark. Of course, this should not be the case. In the view of the Danish People's Party, one should not be able to attend a Danish primary school or Danish educational institutions if it is that one does not have a legal residence in Denmark. So there these cases have also shown that there is a gap in the legislation that we need to go in and close. We in the Danish People's Party think that it has been an unmanageable debate, and although it may be relevant and relevant to discuss how the legislation also affects specific people, and even if you can and must go in and try to understand how these people feel, because it is of course essential and also part of being a politician that you try to understand how other people feel when they are affected by the legislation that we adopt in this Parliament.I also think that it is part of the debate that many children are actually being brought together in Denmark. There are quite a few children and young people who are allowed to come to Denmark and who are allowed to live in Denmark. Denmark is therefore not a closed country for children and their Danish families. But there is sometimes a refusal and just to say it as it is: it can be no different. But again: We are happy to discuss whether this exemption option, which we have mentioned, could be a viable way forward, but we also think that there is a need to discuss some of the examples that I have also mentioned in the speech, for example that as it is today, children and young people without a legal residence permit can actually be allowed to go to Danish institutions. Of course, that should not happen either. With those comments, we say no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115340	Thank you for that, and the first brief remark is from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115348	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I know that the Danish People's Party has previously voted against both the Refugee Board and the Foreigners' Board. I have also been able to see from the press that the Danish People's Party has presented this idea of a limited derogation, and I can see that there has been a discussion that then the Minister could specifically take up a single case, or I saw that somewhere else I saw that a majority of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration should be able to ask the Minister to take up a specific case. I'm having a little trouble understanding how this could work in practice. So can the rapporteur not try to explain a little further what the Danish People's Party understands by a limited derogation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115435	Well, we're willing to discuss how it could be. There has been an opportunity in the past in foreign law in a number of areas for a minister to go in and grant dispensation and allow people to be here, even if they had received a 'no' in the first instance. And then, among other things, they started. to set up the Foreigners' Board and also other appeal bodies, where officials sit and take these decisions, and where it may be court-like bodies that sit and make these decisions. And the creation of many of these boards has the Danish People's Party opposed. It's not a secret. We think that there is a need, and we think it is right that a political assessment should also be made at times. Because when we sit and make alien laws and other laws, we try to take into account all kinds of imaginable and unthinkable situations. But it is always the case that something arises along the way that had not been taken into account. And there we think it would be sensible if there could be a human judgment, a political assessment, a moral assessment of whether the legislation has hit the mark in those cases. And then you can dispense. It might be that it was said that there could be dispensation in x number of cases per year that could be four, that could be five cases. In other words, it could be said that if the Minister and a majority of three quarters of the Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration agree, then if the two bodies agree and that is a broad majority, then there is a possibility of dispensing from the general rules. These are some of the options you could use.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115549	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115552	Is it not to mess things up a little, that three-quarters of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration should act as executive? So, isn't it better that we make the rules and the government administer the rules, and then there's a first instance on the board, and if there's a refusal there, can you appeal to the Foreigners' Board, where there's an independent judge, and then it's over? I mean, what's at risk of politicizing all kinds of cases. This means that all local matters will go on the table of the members of parliament, and then we will sit and take it up on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and convince them from the other parties, if not this matter should be overturned. Well, isn't that completely untenable? Is it not better to be firm that we have an appeal with an independent judge, and that is how we administer the legislation in Denmark, and if we disagree, we change the law? This would also mean that 11-year-old Thai girls who look nice and friendly and sympathetic would go through the system, while a 9-year-old root from Somalia with soccer mud on their feet would not smoke through the system. I mean, that would be a totally untenable way of administering the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115653	I do not understand the argument, because the argument is that if you implement what the Danish People's Party is proposing here, these matters will be politicised. But they are today. So, with the system we have today, it is very much politics, and now we are in the Chamber discussing basically individual matters. And questions are being asked in the committees on individual cases. So that's how it is today. It can be said that today it is such a rather strange system where there are politicians running around demanding that the Minister take action and the Minister must intervene. However, some of the same politicians do not want to give the Minister the opportunity to intervene. That is why I think it is a strange discussion we have today. So frankly, I just want to say that in the Danish People's Party we will not sit and say: Well, this child is allowed to look very nice, but then the other child is not allowed, because it had owl hair or what do I know when that picture was just taken. Well, frankly, I think we should have a little more confidence in each other in here. But then we would have the opportunity to sit and review things. In addition, as is the case with the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Birth in relation to Danish citizenship. After all, it is also politicians who sit and have the opportunity to dispense with the rules. In other words, if some politicians sit on the Committee on the Rights of the Child and consider that there is someone here who is unable to meet the requirements and rules that we have laid down in order to become a Danish citizen, but there may then be some good arguments for him or her to be allowed to do so, then the politicians inside the Folketing can then dispense with the general rules. It works on the Committee on Birth Rights, and it might also be assumed to work elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115823	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115830	You know, I get tired when I hear Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen calls this proposal free immigration. That is not what we are talking about at all. There are 62 children who, since the law was tightened, have been expelled. And these are the families of Danish citizens. It is not free immigration, but Danish citizens, whom we in the Radical Left think should have the opportunity to live in their homeland with the family they have now chosen. The Danish People's Party calls itself the Danish People's Party. I find it very difficult to understand why you do not think that Danish citizens can live in Denmark with their family. Why is it not a good Danish value that our own citizens are allowed to do so unless the family has committed some serious crime? Why is it that you don't think Danes can live in Denmark with their families?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115115930	I could follow the argument well along the way, if it were not the case that a very, very broad majority in this House bypassing the Danish People's Party through, i.e., an incredibly long time, had been so reckless to distribute Danish citizenship round-handedly to all sorts of different people with all sorts of different nationalities. I mean, if you did what Mr. Andreas Steenberg suggests here, so it would in fact mean that at least one must assume that there would be a sharp increase in immigration from at least a number of Muslim countries, because there are plenty of Danish citizens with Pakistani background, Somali background or Turkish background, etc. etc. and, of course, they should not have the opportunity simply to pick up the family for Denmark. There must be some demands that they have to meet. In the Danish People's Party, we do not hide the fact that when we introduce the rules, it is sometimes the case that we know that they affect Danish citizens. It is not always with our good will that we do so in the Danish People's Party. But there we also have to say that the concern for society as a whole and what is at stake is that we should pass on a country to our descendants, who are just about related, that because a majority in the Folketing has been so reckless to distribute citizenship round-handedly to a lot of people who are basically not integrated into Danish society, we need to have rules which also in some cases affect Danish citizens. Other things would be irresponsible to the community as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120056	In Mr. Martin Henriksen's answer shows a huge difference between the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. For Mr. Martin Henriksen says that Danish citizenship is granted to some with other nationalities. In my book, you are a Dane and no other nationality when you have become a Danish citizen, and that is where we disagree. But then it doesn't affect sir. Martin Henriksen, when we can see that the children who are rejected are not children from Muslim countries? These are children from Asia, Eastern Europe and South America, and then Mr. Martin Henriksen's argument is not. And why do you not let Danish citizens bring their stepchildren here, when you can see that it has nothing to do with Koran schools and Muslim countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120137	Since there is only one brief comment left for Mr. Martin Henriksen, allow me to bring it in before lunch, so it's coming with us now. But we need an answer first.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120154	I think this is an extremely reckless approach to a serious issue. I'll tell you what. In other words, just to propose that we abolish the integration assessment completely, or simply to propose that all Danish citizens be able to bring their families to Denmark without further ado, is therefore an extremely far-reaching proposal, and of course one has to be radical in order to be able to propose something like that. That almost goes without saying. But that's where we just disagree. In the Danish People's Party, we regularly try to set the rules in such a way that as far as possible we free Danes not for all requirements, but for some requirements. But typically we are told when we in the Danish People's Party argue that we must not discriminate, that we must not discriminate. But in the Danish People's Party we would not mind if we could take for example. some Danish citizens or some Danes and then take them out and say: In relation to these groups, there must be the possibility of discrimination, and then there may be some rules that apply there, which are not so strict, but then there are some more strict rules for others. The problem, of course, is that other parties will come along and say that you must not do so, because you must not discriminate. Then come the international bodies and the European Court of Human Rights and say that you must not do so, because there must be no discrimination. And then, of course, we have the choice to say that then we can just open up in general or shield ourselves from an immigration that could potentially become even bigger than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120319	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120323	Thank you. I'll be very brief. It's just that I got a little curious about that dispensation option, like mr. Martin Henriksen talks about and the model for it, namely that it should be the Folketing that can sit down and decide whether a child should be granted an exemption. What would the Danish People's Party's own criteria be in such a case? I can also ask in good Jutland: would the religious affiliation of the child have an impact on the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120353	No, it may not be on the basis of that, but it is something that we could talk about with the parties of the Folketing about, i.e. what criteria might be applied. After all, it will be very much up to a political assessment what you think is reasonable and whether there are perhaps some good arguments, some good excuses for someone not having complied with the rules. Then people can send in their papers and come up with an explanation. I mean, there's something going on that reminds me of it in the Parliament's birthright committee. It's not like it's a model in the woods. This is something that is actually being practiced in the Danish Parliament today, well enough in relation to citizenship, but it is being practiced where there are politicians who get the papers in, sit in a closed room and assess and discuss themselves to what they think is right and reasonable, and that is an assessment. I think basically that if there are some of the cases that you can see are problematical, I do not say that they all are, but of course some of them are where you have sympathy and where you think, I do too, why it just came out that way, it is because there are some situations that the legislation has not taken into account. It would be very sensible if a political slash of human slash of moral judgment could be introduced into the individual cases. I think that would actually be healthy, considering that we are still discussing these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120509	Thank you. I do not disagree with that from the outset. I could just be worried about how that practice will take place in the Folketing. Let us say that there are two completely identical cases where there is a child from Thailand and a child from Pakistan who is applying for exemption. Does this mean that the Danish People's Party will be the same in the two cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120535	You can't say that. The starting point of this and our approach will certainly be that, in relation to Pakistan, integration is all else equally difficult. So that would be our approach to it. But that is a political assessment to a large extent. What is the point of this particular case? It is also based on how the Danes have chosen to put together the Folketing. It is also an expression of what the Danes think and what they think is important to give priority to foreign policy and what they think is less important to give priority to foreign policy. It must be assumed that when some Danes have voted for the Danish People's Party, it is because they think that there should be a little control over immigration, or much control over immigration, but also because they are particularly concerned about Muslim immigration. So that's our approach to it. This does not say what we are going to vote or what we are going to say in a particular case, but our general approach is, of course, that there are people from certain countries who are more difficult to integrate than people from other countries. I don't think it's gonna come as a surprise.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115120621	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are no more brief comments. We shall postpone the further negotiations until after lunch, that is to say at 8 a.m. 13.00. And the first rapporteur to speak after lunch is Mr. Mads Fuglede from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130003	The meeting is open. B 20, and we have reached the rapporteur's point of view. Mads Birded from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130027	Thank you for the floor. I will refrain from explaining the more substantive aspects of the integration assessment. I thought the Minister did so well and the whole part of the integration assessment that has come, given that the two-year rule at the time lapsed, I will also skip over easily. It took, sir. Mattias Tesfaye entered his speech and much was said there, I just agree. On the other hand, I agree with the chorus of speakers who believe that there is a very good reason to adhere to the rules on child integration assessment. In the Left, we support the current rules, as we do not want situations where parents leave their children in the home country to prevent them from being influenced by Danish standards and values. It is our view that the more years you spend here, especially in your early formal years, the better it is. It is crucial that in the year of childhood one is in the country in which one also wants to be a citizen, and the shorter one is also here, the harder it will be to ensure the child's successful integration in Denmark. As the Minister mentioned, this is not a thought scenario or a hypothetical issue that the government has come up with to bother anyone. When the rules were adopted back in 2004, it happened on the basis of a special pattern in which parents deliberately kept their children in the home country to shield them from Danish society. The natural consequence of this pattern of integration is, of course, that these children's chances of subsequently becoming well integrated into Denmark are considerably weakened, and we are not well aware of this as a society. With the current rules, we ensure that all parents have a very clear incentive to take their children to Denmark as soon as they themselves come here. I think that is in fact common sense. The best way for the children to live in Denmark is to come here as soon as possible and have as much of their upbringing in Denmark as possible. In my optics, the integration assessment is beneficial for integration in general, but more importantly it is beneficial for the children themselves. I have been very surprised to hear so much about the best interests of the children and to forget that these children are better off growing up here. It is in everyone's interest that we create the best possible basis for ensuring the successful integration of brought together children in Denmark, and therefore the Left cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130323	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130327	Thank you. Now the Minister was involved in a very heated defence of the children's unconditional obligation to be with their parents or their parents' unconditional obligation to ensure that their child was there, and that was supported by Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, who said that if they should not be on the same plane to Denmark then at least come on the plane after. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Mads Fuglede shares the view that it is absolutely crucial that the children are with their parents and that, of course, there is an obligation on parents to ensure that their children come as soon as possible so that they can be with their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130408	Well, I fully agree with the Minister and others who express the same view that we must ensure that our children are brought up here as soon as possible, and that it is essential for a successful integration process that we get to grips with the rules that exist in Denmark and comply with them and ensure that the children are where we ourselves are. I fully understand that when you come to a new country, you may have to shake your head and see if this is where you want to be, but there should not be too much delay in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130449	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130450	I would just like to hear how the general view is related to the Left's own proposal that refugees should be paid for not letting their children come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130503	Now, we must be careful not to confuse pears and bananas in these debates. In the hypothetical case, where some are up here and know that they should not stay in Denmark, we want to give an incentive that, instead of bringing their family up here before they have to go home anyway, they go home again before they have brought the family by here. The second issue we are discussing concerns some people who want a more permanent stay in Denmark, and it is important to keep the two things separate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130544	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130546	The rapporteur did not mention in his speech that what we are talking about are the families of Danish citizens. We're not talking about refugees or migrants. What we in Radicals want with this proposal is that Danish citizens can have their families here. I find it difficult to understand how a so-called liberal party might think that the state should interfere with Danish citizens' ability to live in their own homeland with their family. When we see the children who have been expelled in the cases that have been there, it is now very many children who have not been at Koran school, but children who were well in the process of integration. So why does the Danish Liberal Party think that these 62 children, who are related to Danish citizens, should be expelled?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130645	In general, we believe that the rules that exist in Denmark should be complied with. I understand that there may be some cultural patterns in Thailand that might cause some to get stuck here. I therefore believe, as the Minister has also said, that if we are better at providing guidance, we can make sure that this will not be such a major problem. I totally disagree with Mr. Knox. Andreas Steenberg in that this has anything to do with a liberal view. For me, it is liberal to ensure that children grow up as well as possible, and the fact that the proposal that we on the Left say no to here today can now open up the possibility of leaving your children for years to be left behind would be to reduce the liberal freedoms of children to such an extent. So it's probably gonna be a fight about what the liberal soul is: is it something swarming or some concrete children?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130755	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130757	I do not think it is swarming to give its own country's citizens the right to live in their homeland with their families. I think that is a good liberal value. Is the rapporteur aware that in such countries as Ukraine and Russia, where many of these children come from, one cannot just take one's child out of the country? There is a longer authorisation procedure and that is one of the reasons why some people are waiting to bring their children here from the two countries. There is simply a very practical thing to be done in the original country of origin, and there may therefore be a good reason why, for example, there should be a ban on the use of hormones. It is a year or two, because you simply have to have the permission of the original country to bring the child here. Will it not be possible to influence what is best for the child, that one should, of course, just have permission? But then you go into this system. Is the rapporteur aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130851	I am fully confident that where Danish legislation imposes requirements which cannot be complied with because of the legislation of other countries, this is part of the assessment that is being made. We must, of course, follow it closely if there is such a thing that presents us with challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130910	With that, we thank Mr. Mads Birded. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, who is now on his way to the platform with healthy steps. Welcome to, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115130927	Thank you, President. Since 2004, in the Aliens Act, we have had a rule that certain children who apply for family reunification with their mother or father in Denmark have to undergo an integration assessment. It needs to be assessed whether there is • and I would like to quote the basis for successful integration in this country. According to the comments to the original proposal of February 2004, the rule should prevent foreign mothers or fathers who have come to Denmark from choosing to leave their children in their country of origin knowingly, so that the child's upbringing takes place in the country of origin in accordance with the culture and customs of the country of origin, so that the child is not marked by Danish standards and values in childhood. The supporters of this rule on integration assessment have since 2004 pretended that the rule is made for the sake of the child. In our view, this is a fiction. The rule is made to reduce immigration in Denmark. Until 2016, there was a 2-year rule in the law. It meant that there would be no integration assessment if family reunification took place within 2 years of the foreign father or mother having settled in Denmark. The 2-year rule was based on a fiction that parents typically choose to leave their children longer in their home country to ensure that they get as little Danish culture as possible. I will not deny that there are examples of this. Of course, there are almost all examples, but that is not and has not been the typical situation. The typical father or mother wants their child to grow up in Denmark and will make sure that the child learns as well Danish as possible and gets used to the country as best he can. In 2016, the 2-year rule was overruled by the European Court of Justice. In this situation, there was a good opportunity to abolish the integration assessment. Instead, the Minister chose to table a legislative proposal which was dealt with urgently in only four days. The draft law meant that the two-year rule was abolished and that more and now younger children had to be assessed for integration. More and younger children are refused to come to Denmark and live with their parents. There we have recently been able to read about unhappy cases in the media, where children are sent back especially to Thailand, because the Danish authorities consider that they do not have the prospect of successful integration. Here we are by another piece of fiction in the rules in question. For how can anyone believe that a Thai boy or girl who comes here at age 10, 12 or 14 has no prospect of successful integration when the child comes to Danish school, gets Danish comrades and, as is typically the case in Thai Danish families, grows up with a Danish papa in a Danish-speaking home? Of course, it is the starting point that there is a prospect of successful integration. So strong is Danish society and the Danish primary school. That much confidence should be given to Danish society and the Danish primary school, especially when you have had the power of government for 16 out of the last 20 years. Lots of children who have come here as teenagers and who have not been subject to an integration assessment, for example. Because they are refugees, today they are walking around our colleges, vocational schools, universities and jobs as living examples of successful integration and a well-functioning existence in Denmark as a Danish-speaking citizen. That is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is voting in favour of the proposal from the Radical Left to abolish the assessment of integration and, in our view, this cannot be done quickly enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131325	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it's the Liberal Alliance, and that's so mr. Carsten Bach, on his way to the platform, I see now. There have been several offers on the rapporteur's list, and now it is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131341	Thank you. I am on the watch, if I may say so, on motion for a resolution No. B 20. The reason for what we are talking about here is that in the 00's you saw some cases in which families almost speculated, I would call it, to wait to bring their children to Denmark to avoid them being too Danish, said in quotation marks. The reason for this is not to be wise, but it certainly meant that in 2004 the Danish Parliament made the two-year rule, which also meant that children who had to be brought together in the family would also have to be assessed if they did not move in within two years. This was good and successful legislation in many ways. You actually managed to solve this challenge. The otherwise fine practice was unfortunately overruled by the European Court of Justice. The legal basis for this was, as I understand it, an association agreement with Turkey, which thus affected the entire Danish immigration policy. The judgment found that the 2-year rule was not proportional, i.e. that it was a disproportionate burden on working Turks in Denmark, in relation to Denmark's interest in ensuring that children who are brought together in the family can be integrated into Danish society. This, I think, clearly exhibits the challenges that sometimes face the legal situation in the European Union. In the particular case, the danger had been in Denmark for eight years before a 13-year-old applied for family reunification. The boy could have come here and got all his schooling in Denmark. These are rather strange rules, it seems to me, which allow Danish legislation to be overturned based on a perhaps slightly loosely formulated trade agreement from, as I know, 1964. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that we should do everything possible to ensure the good integration of children who are brought together in the family to Denmark. So this also means in this context that they have to go with their parents within a reasonable period of time. Overall, I believe that we have suffered from an integration disaster in Denmark, where no significant improvements have been made, either in relation to school results over generations or criminal rates. In the Liberal Alliance, we very much agree that the current rules are certainly not optimal. Perhaps we can thank the European Union for that. But the alternative cannot be that we just close our eyes and hope for the best. I think we've done that before. If there were a very good alternative to the integration assessments, we would be happy to support it, but we cannot support removing them without having a concrete other solution. So the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131707	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131710	Now I had a debate with Mr. Mads Birded about what liberalism is, and we had a different view of that. But I usually agree a little more with the Liberal Alliance on what liberalism is. And again I would say that these are the stepchildren of Danish citizens; they are not immigrants or refugees, but our own citizens, and then the state comes in and says: No, you as a Danish citizen must not necessarily live in your own homeland with your family. How on earth can it be the policy of the Liberal Alliance that the state should come and tell Danish citizens, the inhabitants of this country who were born and raised here, that they must not be in the country with their family at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131800	It can, of course, because the overall aim is to ensure the solid integration of children who are brought together in Denmark. And, as I said in my speech, there are some unfortunate cases, and if there were, what can be said, the perfect alternative, we would like to support it too. Without boasting that I heard the Minister's speech on the motion for a resolution earlier, I believe that we are currently looking at whether adjustments can actually be made to overcome some of the unfortunate cases which have been highlighted in several media recently. But basically, the overall purpose is that children should be able to be firmly integrated into Danish society by family reunifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131850	You may press the floor so that I can see that you wish to speak. It'll make it more flexible. Here you go, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131900	I'm sorry, President. I just still find it hard to understand that a liberal party may think it logical that the state should come and say that you must not have your family in the country without any significant reason, such as the United States. that the family has committed serious crime. I'd understand that. But the state comes and says that because the child has come, for example. One year later, apparently, some insurmountable problem has arisen which means that the Danish citizen is not allowed to live in his own country with that stepchild. Then Mr. Carsten Bach something about what the purpose of the law was. But should we not, as a liberal, fight for citizens' rights so that the state does not come and throw them out of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115131952	I do not know whether it is for me to stand here and go down in detail in individual cases mentioned in the press and to deal with individual family reunification cases. I think there may well be other parameters that apply in the assessments of these cases than exactly one year's delay in a child's arrival in Denmark, one year's delay in relation to the parent concerned. And that is why I do not think we should go down in the Chamber and simplify it in that way. And once again, I have to say that my opinion is that at least at the moment the Ministry is looking at whether some of these shortcomings can be resolved, which we probably all agree that they occur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115132042	With this, we thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115132050	Thank you so much. To begin with, we can take as a starting point the very specific example of Mint, which we have probably all read about in the press, and which has now been refused permission to come to Denmark, despite the fact that they have appealed: Mint is well on her way to speaking Danish; she understands Danish; she plays football; she should have been in an ordinary 7th grade here after the summer holidays; she has schoolmates, her mother works in Denmark; she doesn't do so right now, because now she is in Thailand with her and she has a little brother in Denmark, a little brother. Yet she cannot be allowed to be in Denmark with her mother and stepfather and younger brother. That is the starting point, that is what we are talking about today. Then the authorities say Mint is not integral; they judge she is not. It's screaming to heaven. Just the very specific example should lead us all in here to say that there is something quite wrong with the way this legislation is put together and with the way it is managed. What's this really about? It is about the fact that we have reached a degree of instrumentation in the way we treat our citizens. All of a sudden it's about law in the form of dates: When did she come to Denmark, how long has it been? That is what we are looking at, instead of looking at the very specific case and family and instead of seeing that we are separating a family. That is what we are doing: it is the state that separates a family. Then we just have to do something about ourselves, whether we think we want to be that kind of state and whether we think we can be familiar with it. It is also a state that wears small shoes, I think, because the Minister argues that if one has not properly informed oneself about the legislation we have now, then it is up to oneself if one's child has come late to Denmark, and then it is just too bad, and then the child cannot be allowed to live in Denmark. I cannot understand that argument at all. I understand that it is a pity if you have not been properly informed in the legislation, but that the penalty should be that you cannot then be allowed to bring your child here to live here, I think is completely out of proportion. These are people we are talking about, they are not numbers or numbers on a piece of paper. All of us who have children can try to close our eyes for just 20 seconds and try to imagine what it would be like if it were us. I can imagine what it would be like if I met a man from abroad, moved abroad and wanted to bring my children with me, but then I was told that no, you can't. Then that family would be separated. So I don't think we can be that familiar. I think that anyone with a just about moral compass and a little bit of humanism back in the soul should be able to see that this should not be the way it should be. And this is where we sometimes have to distinguish between can and should. It may well be that we can make such legislation, and it may be that we may think that because it is possible, or because there is a majority in the Folketing for it, we can do so, but we should as a state should then ask ourselves: what about the problem that has been sought to solve in its time in relation to these children who came late to Denmark and they should go to Koran school in some Muslim countries etc. As Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentioned, we cannot deny that there will be some who have attended school abroad or in Koran school somewhere. We cannot deny that, of course, we cannot stand up here on the platform and say that we can never guarantee that that will happen. But we can ask ourselves what we weigh most. Will we live with the fact that there will be a few parents who have the cynical view that their children should not be with them while they go to school in another country, and then can come to Denmark when they are old, when we actually want to be a humanist country, which at the same time includes children from other countries, so that they can be with their parents? We have to ask ourselves what it is that weighs the heaviest. I have no doubt at all, and in the alternative we have no doubt at all about what it is that weighs the heaviest, because it is of course the most important thing that we, as a decent humanist country, welcome the families of our Danish citizens, whether they have come 14 days, 2 years or 3 years after their parents to Denmark. That must be a decent point of view to take. That is why I would like to thank the Radicals for putting forward this motion for a resolution and, of course, we support it 100%.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115132547	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115132607	What we are discussing today is, of course, quite an expression of a problem which has often been the subject of Danish legislation on foreigners. It is that there is a problem that one believes should be solved and then one makes a law, and then one creates a lot of other problems instead, because one will hit much, much wider than what one really intended when one had to solve the specific problem that had to be solved. That is what this is all about, and that is why we have come into a situation where we have legislation and the administration of legislation which, if I may say so, separates families and which means that families can no longer function as families. I think that is a very big problem. The argument, as we have also heard from the Minister today, is justified by these so-called Koran schools. There should be no doubt that we must take a firm stand against parents sending their children to Koran schools, because it is wrong in every respect to do so. These are schools where children are brainwashed in a certain religious ideology, very often. But it is the case, as has also been shown here, that very few people have been affected by this, which has something to do with Koran schools. After all, it is families who, if I may say so, are in a completely different situation, usually where a Danish man has met a woman, for example. in Thailand, as some concrete examples show. The woman has a child in advance that you would like to have with her, but she would like to wait a little while to see if she falls into Denmark. I think that is a fair approach to life, that you do not take the child immediately until you are absolutely sure whether you can also settle in. It has nothing to do with Koran schools. It has nothing to do with brainwashing the children religiously. I'm not going to judge whether it's right or wrong. I think that, in some cases, it is possible to discuss it; in others, it is certainly sensible to do so. But the problem is that this child is now in Denmark and is then expelled on the basis of a so-called integration assessment. And that is where we have to take the concrete examples and there we have to take not just one but several specific examples to say that this is quite strange. When you can see that there are children and young people who go to Danish school, speak Danish, Danish comrades, where teachers say that they work well, where they are in one and all part of the community in question so much that local communities are fighting for them not to be shown out, it is therefore quite strange how you can come to the conclusion that they cannot be integrated here in Denmark. It is so far-fetched that one has to ask oneself: is it the law that is wrong with, or can legislation be made in this field that works properly, and to the extent that it is the Koran schools that one wants to deal with, there are no other ways to do it? So in other words, we think it is reasonable that the Radical Left has put forward this proposal. We would like to thank them for this and we can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115133029	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then we welcome Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115133039	Thank you. The Radical Left has tabled a motion for a resolution to abolish the requirement for the assessment of children's integration. We Conservatives do not agree with that. We believe that it is important that people who settle in Denmark are ready for integration. We have many who are not integrated and do not want to be integrated, and we do not need any more. Let me remind you who this rule is specifically meant for. It is intended precisely for the children who come to this country, so that they get a good start, and it is important that you get a good start in the country when you get here. It is about giving parents the incentive to take their children with them as soon as possible, if not immediately, when they arrive in the country. Thus they can start their lives in Denmark as early as possible. It is clear that the younger you are when you come here, the easier it is to be integrated, to learn the language, to have new comrades, to practice sports, etc. I really think it is quite natural to expect you to bring your children when you want to start a new life in another country. Unfortunately, we have seen how to leave your children in the home country to go to Koran school or to be brought up with the values of your home country, so that you are more resistant to Danish values. One child in Koran school, one child in reeducation is a child too much. Good integration starts with an early effort. The earlier we can influence the child with Danish schooling, the greater the likelihood that the child will become a part of society. So the rule is designed to give children a better chance not to end up on the edge of society. When the rule is that parents should bring their children with them as soon as possible, I do not think it is fair to think that it is the rule that divides people. It is the case that if you take your children immediately, then the integration assessment requirement lapses. Of course, it must be quite clear to parents what the consequences are if they choose to leave their children in their home country. It has not been so far, and that needs to be corrected. That is the answer to some of the cases that have been affecting the media picture lately. At first glance, it also seems strange, and I have said this several times in connection with recent cases, that we keep one serial criminal after another, i.e. criminals that we cannot get rid of for the sake of various conventions, while at the same time saying goodbye to law-abiding citizens who want Denmark. But I would like to point out that this kind of thing of course impresses me... I'd like to be them... but the solution to these cases is not to abolish the rule. It is still relevant and has a purpose, and that is to prevent parents from deliberately keeping their children in their home country so that they can resist integration. So the solution is that parents from the beginning are well informed about the consequences of not taking their children with them. Against this background, we Conservatives cannot support the Radical Left resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115133411	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. We are now at the end of the debate with the rapporteurs, with the exception of the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, who is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Andreas Steenberg, who now has the floor for rounding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115133427	The most important thing for the vast majority of people is their family... love, your mate, your children. In Denmark, we choose to tear apart the families of our own citizens if a Danish citizen finds love outside the EU. Then, as a Dane, you are treated almost as a foreigner in your own country. In the worst case, you get your family expelled. Here in the Chamber today we have a visit from Frank, one of the Danish citizens who has had part of his family expelled. Frank finally had his bonus daughter, Mint, labeled as undesirable this autumn. She was declared unfit for integration according to the law that we Radicals want to change with this motion for a resolution, even though she is only 13 years old and has life ahead of her; even though her mother and little brother are allowed to be here in the country; even though her stepfather is a Danish citizen; although her Danish school agrees with her; although she has learned well Danish in the short time she has been in Denmark. Mint's expulsion is impossible to understand. According to Amnesty International, the government has also succeeded in breaking as many as five laws and conventions in the Mint case... sad and impressive at the same time. But Mint isn't the only one. Since the last tightening in 2016 we have expelled 62 children primarily from Asia, South America and Eastern Europe • 62 children, where one of the parents is a Danish citizen, have been declared unwanted in 2 years. I have met eight of them, and their expulsions are as incomprehensible as Mints. In the Radical Left, we believe that Danish citizens should be able to live in their homeland with their spouses and spouses' children. The majority of things have also said today that this law must prevent so-called Koran school children. One creates a fear with a claim that Danish citizens will send their children out of the country to become Islamists at a Koran school. But the unwanted and deported children are, for the most part, not Muslims at all. Yesterday we received an answer from the Minister that you have no idea if anyone has been to Koran school. There are no facts to support that claim. The majority choose to divide the families of Danish citizens on the basis of a claim that has no real basis. In my view, it is a scandal that Danish citizens have their family life destroyed in Denmark because of a non-realistic symbol law.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Why can't Frank live with Mint who's learned Danish in record time? It's impossible to understand. The reality is that Danish citizens go on holiday, study and work around the world. Denmark is a country that feeds on the world, and the Danes live in the world. But you have to be careful, because if you find love in another country, you can be told, in the words of the Foreigners' Authority, that you can have your family life in a country other than Denmark, even if you are a national of Denmark. It must stop Danes having their children expelled because the majority claim that they are unintegrable Koran school children, even though the children are integrated and have not set foot at a Koran school at all. That is why we are putting forward this proposal to remove so-called integration assessments, which obviously do not work. Let's get families back together. In those words, I hope, although it did not sound like support for the proposal can be obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115133909	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115133932	We are opening the debate, and we are doing so with the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115133955	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I agree with the Social Democratic Party that it is important that the municipalities have the necessary tools to ensure good and healthy housing conditions for everyone in Denmark. That is why I have already started negotiations on solutions to deal with the rental of poor housing by residential speculators, and I would like to invite all the parties to a meeting on this subject. The government can therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134027	Thank you. That's where Mr. Magnus Heunicke just to come. Here you go for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134033	Thank you very much, President. It is a little unusual that this is such a short ministerial speech from the Minister, but I will at least start by signing for it. It is good to see, and it has to be said that we have come to where we need to do something. It is, of course, a joint responsibility, and that is why we are also saying that we, the Social Democrats, will certainly show up with great interest and also participate very constructively in this work. I know that this is not easy, because there are different legislation at stake, but I also know that in a number of municipalities, an additional tool would really be good. Then a receipt from here to the minister. And I would also like to say that what we are going to do is, of course, that we will wait for what will happen in committee with the negotiations that the Minister has now announced that will be opened.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134124	We note that brief and precise answers can surprise the opposition. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134130	After all, the problem is that housing is being rented which is not suitable for people to live in, and we have a lot of legislation to ensure that those homes can then be closed down. When that happens, however, it is up to the municipality to rehouse the residents, and there may be a cost involved. Therefore, I think we should also look at whether it is possible to prevent the rental of those homes before the municipality has to intervene and put a resident out and find resettlement opportunities for the resident and pay the cost of it. I think that is a perfectly legitimate and entirely right wish, and that is why I am very pleased that there is attention on this issue, and I am glad that the Social Democrats too are happy to come to negotiations on it, and in this motion for a resolution I am asking for negotiations to take place. And that's why I've done it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134225	Thank you. There are several brief comments. Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134231	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister will call for negotiations. I think that is very positive. I am also from a municipality, namely Bornholm, which also has a large share of these dilapidated dwellings. One thing is that you can demolish some of them, but another thing is that there is also a concern that vulnerable families are somehow lured into these homes which are totally unacceptable to live in. In this context, I would just like to ask the Minister a little more specifically about the proposal which is also outlined in this motion for a resolution, namely to allow municipalities to approve a professional landlord in advance: is that what the Minister is planning to go ahead with? And, following on from that, does the Minister say that some of the last thing he said, namely the question of the economy: does the Minister also think that we can go further? We have said: well, there may also be other proposals that are relevant. Well, can there be any economy on the table there that we can use and that we can discuss?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134337	We already have the legislation, which means that if a municipality finds that a landlord repeatedly rents housing that is not suitable for people to live in, the landlord may lose the right to rent. What we must now try to find out is whether we could stop it before such a career as a landlord of housing that is not suitable to live in begins. I do not think we can do that at person level, in other words in advance, saying that this person does not have the right to rent. But I think we can give the municipalities the opportunity to say that in the municipality you have to report to the municipality if you want to rent a new dwelling, i.e. an apartment that has not previously been rented. Then the municipality has a period to check whether the accommodation is suitable for rent. I think you can go that way. But the disclaiming of a person who has never rented before and has not violated any rules on rental, to be able to start a career as a rental houser, I think is doubtful. But the very fact of stopping the rental of a dwelling, which has been found not to be suitable for people living in it, I think is a viable road.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134444	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134448	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for your positive reception. It is just a follow-up to what the rapporteur for the proposers said, and I have nothing else to say but that it is very positive that the Minister is willing to do so here and calls for negotiations. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134510	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134512	It is short, precise word exchanges that are here today, it is very good for a further debate, and that means that the Minister will now be free of further indictment. We start with the series of rapporteurs, and we jump to the Danish People's Party, Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, because the Social Democracy is the proposer and waits until the end. Merete Dea Larsen, I hadn't just thought of that. ) There are many things. There's a lot of things about this case that's taken people by surprise, I hear, but we're still trying. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134542	Thank you. The Danish People's Party fully understands the proposal made here by the Social Democratic Party, because we have absolutely a challenge in relation to speculators who are speculating on renting these uninhabitable properties. It is really bad for those who rent themselves in, because they often experience having to live in poor conditions. In addition, they need to be repositioned when the municipality sees these awkward conditions. But it is important to keep in mind, as the Minister also mentioned, that the municipalities today have the tools to condense these homes when they are uninhabitable. But the challenge is especially for these municipalities that once the family has moved in, they have a situation where they have to reposition the tenants, and that can cause problems in some places, and it can be very expensive for the municipality in the long term. So what the Danish People's Party believes should be worked on, and which is also what is being proposed, is that we should find a solution that can be used by the municipalities that consider it relevant. We must therefore be sure that we do not require all municipalities to take action. We only need to screen the rental accommodation where relevant and only those homes where relevant. So we have to find a solution for the municipalities that want it so that they are allowed to do so. We must ensure that there is reasonableness in this so that, in the case of the dwellings being screened, there is also some form of compensation for those landlords who may be experiencing a delay in the rental and thus lose earnings for a period, whereas landlords of the houses which are not approved, it can be said, have not lost rental income, as the dwellings have never been suitable for housing. So, in general, there is a lot of content that we need to have in place, and it is a work that is already under way, and in fact I already have a very good cooperation, and I would like to sign for that, and a great willingness to find some really sensible solutions to put this in place. So we're just looking forward to further work on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134730	Thank you for that to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Liberal Group, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134748	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is, in fact, in agreement with both the content and the challenge on which the motion for a resolution is based. We want to help the municipalities offer opportunities, but these must be relatively unbureacratic opportunities, and there must be legal basis slash tools for them to actually look into and say: Can we prevent the rental of a housing stock that we suspect. The tools they already have can easily be used, but it is the case that the municipalities often find themselves in a situation where they first discover that a home is really bad when people have moved in and in that situation they have a re-housing cost that is not insignificant. That is why we are thinking that it would be very good if the negotiations invited by the Minister would allow us there to try to find each other and that it might end up with us perhaps finding a report at some time when the content of a possible solution can be described. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134904	There is one brief comment, Mr President. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134908	I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the Left. When such a proposal is put forward here, we are always pleased to hear the reactions of the rapporteurs of the various parties. And I have to say that I have been particularly looking forward to hearing the rapporteur of the Left, because I know that he has a past, even a long past, in the municipal world. I would therefore like to hear about the experience of the rapporteur in the municipal world, both in his own and in neighbouring municipalities, on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115134939	Thank you. It is the case that the issue is very well known. I have actually helped to ensure that in the municipality in which I was mayor we had a committee which, as such, had the authority to go out and condense housing. We were relatively fast, and we were also out on foreclosures etc. But the essence is that what is important is that you give the possibility that you can look at concrete properties and say that in the specific property there can be no move in until it is approved. It might be something about putting a flybone in the population register system so you can't move to the home until it's approved. It was a very concrete grip that could be taken and used. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135021	You're welcome. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, who reaches the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135036	Thank you. The Enhedslisten can also support this proposal, but at the same time we would like to point out that there is a major problem when the Danish Parliament adopts a series of laws in November, which means that there are 11 000 general family homes which will no longer be common family homes when we reach 2030. Where are these people gonna live? That is the central problem. I also think it is a problem in this resolution that it has not been adjusted up from the last time it was put forward. The pressure that will be when people move from some major cities and far out into the countryside is because out there they can find a cheaper accommodation that they might just pay for with the low income they've been getting bigger and bigger. It is quite fine that we are now trying to hold a debate and to find out whether we can tighten up some requirements as to what we can rent out to people. The municipalities already have some options, especially if mold is found in some very poor homes. The municipalities will then have the opportunity to intervene. It would also be a good thing if we could see that there were some houses that should not be rented out at all, even if they are officially buildings built for residential purposes. I really miss looking at the big future problem. I do not think that many parties have realised that there is in fact a major problem on the way. What we have seen so far is that some move more or less voluntarily because, for example, they... are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and find out for themselves that with the income they have, it is not possible to stay in a general residence around Copenhagen. It is necessary to move to the outer parts of Sjælland or to move on to Lolland, in order to cope with it financially. A number of people will be exposed to the same thing in the future, namely that they cannot stay in the housing they have, because there will of course be some residential areas where there will be a reduction in the proportion of general family housing from, for example, the Netherlands. 100% down to 40%. Then there are some families who will have to move elsewhere and who cannot afford simply to move to a newly built general home, but who will have to search the housing market to see if there is something cheaper. So the pressure that is out on the housing market in those parts of Denmark where the houses are cheapest will be increased with certainty. It would be a very good thing if we could find some means to ensure that there are no more people in the poor part of the population who end up in a place that is not suitable for housing. I would also like to point out that there are sometimes initiatives which arise without Parliament having adopted anything and which also help to solve some housing problems. I find it exciting, for example, what they have done in Bøvlingbjerg, where they have been a little tired of some Låsby-Svendsen types playing out empty homes, so they made an association that bought houses in that town. And in this way they helped control the renovation of some of the worst homes and then rented them out to people who were interested in moving to the area. This enabled some people to test whether they could live a life in Bøvlingbjerg. For many places, it is a problem to buy a dwelling, for example. In those areas where the housing is cheap, you should not expect to be able to sell that property again. And it can be a leap to move far into the countryside, and you have to be absolutely sure that this is the right decision, so I think that initiatives like those in Bøvlingbjerg are worth copying around. I don't think we can solve all the problems in this field in the Folketing. I think that a popular initiative is also necessary, and I also think it would be good if more housing associations looked at whether they could play a different role in rural areas. I am well aware that it is another trend that prevails, namely that housing associations typically dismantle their general housing in rural areas because it is too small units and so on. But I think we need to look at it a little nuanced, and I think these citizens' initiatives are exciting. I also think it is exciting if we come to the conclusion in these negotiations that we can tighten up in relation to what municipalities can prevent being rented out for housing purposes. But I also see a huge task for those parties which will now vote in November in a short space of time, amendments to the law which reduce the number of general housing in Denmark. That is why those who have tabled the proposal today have a great job to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135535	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135548	I have to say that I am somewhat surprised to hear this speech from the rapporteur. In other words, we are repeating an old lie that 11 000 homes are being demolished in connection with the legislative proposals that are being adopted. The rapporteur is well aware that this is not close to being right. The fact that you repeat it anyway is enough because it is about to be an election campaign. But the rapporteur knows very well that this is not the figure that anyone is talking about. Already in Tingbjerg, plans have been made where you should not tear down, and therefore 11,000 can never ever be that number. But let's just leave it alone. What I am most puzzled about is that we can see Enhedslisten's rapporteur side with Låsby-Svendsen and along with the bandits in suits who buy rental properties on Lolland and let them decay. They have properties that are ready for conditioning, where there are rats and where there is moisture, where there is mold. Then you stand there and say you're not gonna do anything about it. Such a resolution will not be supported here, in which we will ensure that the municipalities can shield people completely from it. You really don't want to do that? Is it really where they say: because of the adoption of a different piece of legislation, we will not support a piece of legislation that will give the municipalities the opportunity to put these speculators in a position of tape?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135656	Well, sir. Kaare Dybvad has not listened at all. We kind of support this. At the same time, however, we say that this is far from enough. We are faced with a situation where 11 000 common family homes are not being demolished, but 11 000 common family homes are being reduced. That is, of course, what lies in the legislative proposals which will be dealt with in the second and third readings next week. And we don't know for sure how to get to it. There may be some homes that will have been converted from general family homes to some youth housing or old homes: the option is there. There is also the possibility that they will be sold, in other words that liberalism will break through, so that they will be sold as condos. But the fact is that with what Kaare Dybvad and the Social Democrats and other parties are helping to adopt next week, the number of general housing is being reduced. One of the things you do is that you do it. in some areas where you have cheap general housing and that will mean that those people will move somewhere else. That is the problem I am saying will move closer and it will make the need to find a cheap accommodation even greater than it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135759	Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135803	I simply have to call on the rapporteur to get to grips with the issues. Firstly, many of these residential areas are not cheaper than general housing in general. Mjølnerparken is more expensive than general homes are generally in Copenhagen. Secondly, there are all those who move from a family home in Mjølnerparken. The rapporteur says that they cannot afford to move into a new general home. No, they haven't, and they can't afford to live in Mjølnerparken either. Those who are moving to Lolland at the moment don't have 9,000 kroner. a month to pay a family home in e.g. Mjølnerparken or in other vulnerable residential areas with. We're talking about people with 3,000 kroner. a month to pay rent for. They are completely unaffected by what is going on in all sorts of other negotiations. I actually think it would dress Enhedslisten to take hold. If the Social Democrats put this on the agenda, which is a huge problem in some municipalities, where people live under conditions that Enhedslisten would never accept in other contexts, then we should take a look at that proposal. If what lies is not good enough, what is it that Enhedslisten would like you to do to ensure that Låsby-Svendsen and his like-minded have no opportunity to exploit people in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135915	Now I don't want Kaare Dybvad to decide what I say that's the way it is. And if you're going to point out other ways of helping these people, we in the Enhedslisten have proposed that there should also be an authorising right for private rental. This would enable the municipalities to have one more tool so that not only people can be assigned to the general sector, but also to the private rental construction. It will also be possible to find some housing at the cheap end, and this will thus strengthen the municipalities' ability to solve housing social problems. We very much support that. We have plenty of housing policy and I'll tell you what I mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135947	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115135950	Just for the sake of good order and just to put things in place: an authorizing right for private rentals could easily be a solution, but here we are talking about some homes, which we do not really want anyone to be assigned to, because they are just such miserable homes that we cannot even imagine having to live in, with mold, with rats, with moisture and with all sorts of other things. It is certainly a very good suggestion to say that those homes should never be rented out to people and that only the owner can live in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140032	Yeah, that's right. That is why we support the proposal in this way, but at the same time we say that it is inadequate in relation to the task which lies and which will be even greater in the future. And yes, if it were the case that the municipalities could point to the private rental construction, then one would have one more option. What is real is that some of the people who live in the homes where, for example, the municipality. come out and find that there is mold, the municipality must help with another dwelling. It would be a good thing if the municipality could both point to something in the private rental that is in a good condition, or could point to general housing, so that in this way it had more opportunities to solve the problems of the people who have ended up in a housing that should not be inhabited by people at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140120	Then Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen came along with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140127	Barely, but I don't know if there's anything wrong with the system in here today, since it doesn't quite work that way. But just to be clear: no matter where there is a shortage of housing, there are certainly different places in the country, but no matter what, this proposal is quite comprehensive in preventing people from ever having to rent a dwelling that is as uninhabitable as it is in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140156	The proposal has led to a debate with the Minister for Housing, and there is no way of knowing in advance what that negotiation entails and what barriers there are for the municipality to pursue a restrictive housing policy. We don't really know that yet. I think it is a good thing that the proposal is being accepted so that there will be the debate in the proposal as such. And if you can come to the conclusion that those professional landlords need some kind of license to become landlords, then I think it's good to limit liberalism and introduce some rules for this housing market to make it better for the tenants. We in the Enhedslisten are all in on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140238	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140241	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for the speech and for the answers to questions. Then I would just like to support the rapporteur in that, of course, we are faced with problems that are across different domains, and there is no doubt that our legislation in relation to general housing can have an impact on how we see moving patterns of vulnerable citizens in Denmark. After all, it is no secret that metropolitan municipalities actually pay socially vulnerable people to move to Lolland, which has also been specifically mentioned here. So I would just like to thank the rapporteur for raising that issue too, and I would like to thank him for his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140329	You're welcome. Then I can make a little ad here. I know that there is a question debate on the way in which the Folketing will be able to discuss what the consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits, the low level of integration and the 225-hour rule have led to so far. As far as I am aware, this is a debate that is going to run in a short space of time, and it is, of course, relevant to the debate we are having here. Because it is possible that there is a figure that some people have had to move because their income has been reduced, and these are some of the people who have come to live in these homes that should no longer be housing at all. So I think it is a good thing that the debate on the poverty-creating legislation adopted in the Folketing is being continued and that some facts are being put on the table next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140421	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Next in line, sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140430	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to say that we have already seen a very welcoming minister announce that he will take a positive view of this issue, which I think is certainly also relevant. In the municipal context, I have helped to condense a great many homes, and I actually believe that virtually all municipalities have their variant of Låsby-Svendsen. So we look forward to seeing what can come of this, and that is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140503	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then we'll give you room. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140513	Thank you. With regard to B 4, the motion for a resolution on the closure of the rental of uninhabitable properties, I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the problem. I have myself and I cannot say that it was a pleasure to have had the opportunity to visit one of these qualifying accommodations on a committee trip along with Mr. Magnus Heunicke in the spring. And it was shocking to see. In fact, I was walking around with a lump in my throat for most of the time because it is under the circumstances that many of our citizens live in many places in the country. Clearly we need to do much more to stop this, so thank you for putting the proposal forward by the Social Democrats. We'll back that up. Having said that, we also need to talk about the fact that it is part of a major structural problem in Denmark in many different areas, and one of them is in the budget law, so that in the alternative, like the Productivity Commission, we believe that the possibility of transferring funds from year to year should be extended, and this means quite specifically that we want to amend the budget law so that a municipality which spends less than agreed with the state in a budget year can spend similar money the following year without being penalised financially. It is because we need to be able to plan our areas and our housing stock and expansion further ahead than just in these limited years, because we have some rules and some legislation that prevents this. The same goes for the fact that we have to look at the demolition pool. We know that we have this large number of buildings that actually stand and fall. KORA says that one in four houses is empty in certain parishes. This is problematic because a main street with dilapidated houses and scattered buildings and broken windows etc. Of course, the environment is disgusting, but it also frightens other citizens from moving in, and this, in turn, prevents some citizens, who may wish to move in, from obtaining loans for their homes. Last but not least, I think we also need to look at these poverty reforms. I am not sure how the party of the proposers actually stands in this area. Are they going to do something about the 225-hour rule, the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit? It is a major problem for one of the proposers' own circles, in the same place we saw that dwindling house. There has been headline on the headline that it may be that the capital municipalities actually export socially vulnerable citizens to these municipalities, and that is simply not right. There we have to recognise that the reforms we have made may have an impact, including our general housing legislation, which is being adopted in the Folketing. So with those words, I just want to thank the proposers for acting on this, and we can only get started too late, so let us act.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140824	Then we can thank the rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140841	Thank you. I'll be very brief. In SF we are concerned that everyone should have the right to live well and in a good accommodation. I say this as a representative of the area where Låsby-Svendsen has the habit of renting out some really, really bad housing. I have seen some of them myself, and I think it is necessary for us to ensure that measures are taken to ensure that no one is forced to live in such housing. I have listened to the commitment of the Minister for Housing that negotiations can be called for in order to meet this proposal, which, incidentally, I warmly support, and I would also like to say on behalf of the SF that we would very much like to take part in those negotiations. So we also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140935	Thanks to the SF. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115140945	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by thanking the Social Democrats for raising this debate, because I think it is actually a very important and relevant debate. Of course, in the Conservative People's Party, we fully share the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, namely that of course it should not be possible to rent uninhabitable properties to weak citizens who are being exploited by residential speculators to live in miserable conditions. We have, I think, all seen these horrible stories that have been out there in the press. We were also with the Rural and Islands Committee down on Lolland here not long ago, where we also saw some of these homes for ourselves. It is clear that, of course, we cannot ignore it when vulnerable citizens become victims of speculators in this way and will live in health-damaging and, at the very least, uninhabitable properties. The municipalities already have a duty today to shut down buildings if they learn that they are uninhabitable, but of course we also want to enter into a dialogue on whether we can find other handles to turn on so that we can solve these problems. We have also noted that the Minister has already called for negotiations, and we welcome this. Of course, we come up to them and look constructively at whether we can find some sensible solutions, and that is why we can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141110	There was just one brief comment. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141115	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. This is in line with my own rapporteur's speech and the comments I made in relation to the popularly said poverty reforms or, in other words, the ceiling on cash benefits, which is what we are talking about. Several municipalities have documented that this is in fact one of the fundamental structural reasons why more and more citizens from the metropolitan area move to these dilapidated, unhumanised homes. How do the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party feel about the fact that we have these reforms that are actually helping to distort and continue this development which we are now trying to curb under a different regime?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141203	In other words, reforms contribute in different ways to making Denmark richer, and I actually think we have a very reasonable level of public services, for example. after the ceiling for cash benefits has been introduced. There must be reasonableness, it must always pay to make an extra effort, and it must always pay to work. At the moment this is the case, and that is actually what is best for all 98 municipalities in the country. There is an increase in employment in all 98 municipalities. That is what helps to raise all the municipalities in the country, i.e. that there is progress in the economy, and that is one of them. because of the economic reforms that have been made, but also because it is just going well in general. That is why it is important that we increase the supply of work so that we can create even more flying altitude in our recovery. This is, in effect, what it is doing at the moment, i.e. that we increase the supply of work. It is really, really important that we do it so that we can make the whole of Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141258	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141300	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's statement on his commitment to reform. But I didn't really get an answer to my question, so let me just quote: In 2016, over 6,000 people who lived on public services such as cash benefits, early retirement and sickness benefits moved from Copenhagen and Aarhus. These people are most of them affected by the cash relief ceiling. Last year 7,259 citizens moved away from public transfers from Copenhagen, while only 2,500 moved to the city. It's Weekly Letter A4 that's been given access to these numbers. Lolland has been receiving social clients from the metropolitan area for years. Last year, the municipality of Lolland received 299 more people on public services. It shows the municipality's own figures. Lolland's mayor, Holger Schou Rasmussen, then says that he fears that in 20 years' time there will no longer be people living on social benefits in Copenhagen. So this isn't something I'm pulling out of a hat, it's dry numbers from the municipalities themselves and from the ministry. So the ceiling on cash benefits has a negative effect. What does the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party want to do about the resolution that has been tabled today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141428	In relation to the motion for a resolution, I have said that we support it. However, in relation to the ceiling on cash benefits, I would like to say that it is not the case that the ceiling on cash benefits is affected. Well, cash benefits are a temporary benefit. That's the starting point. The very best thing you can do for cash benefits recipients is actually to ensure that it is possible to get into employment, and it is actually going really, really well. And it has to be said that it really matters whether there is an economic benefit from entering the labour market. That is why we have introduced the ceiling on cash benefits: there must of course be a difference in entering the labour market; there must be an economic incentive to go out and take a job, so that we have just increased the supply of labour. That's the whole point, and it works. After all, we can see that there are now a great many recipients of cash benefits entering the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141511	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. In fact, we have reached the point where we can give the floor to Mr Seligman. Magnus Heunicke as rapporteur for the proposers. He will certainly have the opportunity to thank him for his overwhelming support for the proposal, including the Minister's support, so it is one of the great days. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115141534	Thank you for that, President. Yes, it is actually one of the big days, because we are dealing with a real problem, which is also part of Denmark year 2018. And when I say it like that, it's because you wouldn't think it was. However, several of my fellow rapporteurs have told us that we have been down there and seen some of the conditions under which people live for rent, in other words, in some dilapidated, health-dangerous plants, as it is, frankly. I have been with the Danish Parliament on some of the bus tours around Denmark, and as recently as last week I was down there to visit another residence. It was a residence in Lolland Municipality where until a short time ago there had lived a family with a child of 3 years, and the municipality had managed at the last minute to buy the dwelling at the foreclosure for the nose of speculators, which otherwise would have continued with the carousel, i.e. with this rental. I brought some building experts down to look into it, and I could see with my own eyes that the moisture drifted down the walls, that the mold had appeared, that there was a definite hole in the roof. In the first floor there was so-called insulation, but it consisted of some flamingo, which was flammable and harmful to health, so that the entire first floor bedrooms were a large fire trap. In addition to the fact that this is quite frankly dishonest and harmful kitchen facilities, bathroom facilities and other things, one must also say that it is not a place to grow up as a child. And what I was told by the social workers was that you typically start to discover that something is wrong, because the kids' clothes smell when they show up at school smells like moisture, of mold, so this moldy dunnies around them. Otherwise they will not be approached, because children who grow up in such places do not have playmates with them. They live in such miserable conditions that they simply do not dare or want someone to come home from class or kindergarten. It is appalling to see such conditions, and it is appalling that there are people in today's Denmark who earn money from it, who systematically seek out the foreclosures, who systematically buy and systematically rent via typically a facebook ad or other, where you have to describe what it is. It is often even said to the families who are in urgent need of housing that this is very typical, as the rapporteurs have also said here that they do not have to pay 3 months' deposits, because they simply do not have that money. The challenge is that they will not get that money in the next few months either. So even if you as a tenant discover that this place is not a good place and that it rains in and is freezing in the winter... there are unfortunately also big, big problems with the place... you owe the money from the deposit, and you don't have them, so you can even be locked in such a situation. We also know that these are some of our most weak people, and we know that they have a pattern of movement that is significantly different from that of the rest of Denmark's families. They've moved around, and some have called them nomadic families. They are short time every place it is about many different movements, to different places, from one place to the other and this means that the authorities may have difficulty picking up on it before the family and children are gone again, moved to a new municipality, a new place. We need to be better at working together on this, but first and foremost the municipalities need better tools to prevent this happening. That is why, as the President also indicated when he gave me the floor, I would like to thank the Minister and the Assembly as a whole for saying that we cannot continue to look at this. And the economic gain that some speculators get by coining the most vulnerable citizens, we must do everything we can to stop. We must give the municipalities better tools than they have today in order to prevent it. Our motion for a resolution says in the first line: "The Danish Parliament instructs the government to call the parties of the Danish Parliament for negotiations in order to ensure legislation to stop the rental of decrepit houses by residential speculators to vulnerable citizens and families...· When the Minister says in his speech that he will call the parties of the Danish Parliament for negotiations for this, it is true what the President says, namely that we have achieved that objective. After all, we are not yet in the finish line, because we will then have to start negotiations, but we have achieved the goal of getting it on the agenda and the goal of getting the Minister and the parties of the Folketing into a job that can provide better tools, and that is a very, very crucial step. And I can only say that we are very, very much looking forward to the negotiations that are now being widely convened here. I will briefly review the individual points made by the rapporteurs, whom I have been able to record in my block. The Minister's comments have been accepted, both in my remarks to him and in his speech here. To the Danish People's Party, I will sign for the fact that there are challenges. And the point from DF about compensation to landlords delayed in the rental, if they get hit by it, then we have to go into those negotiations, because that is a point too. After all, it is important that this should be a tool which is not bureaucratic, but which is used in places where it can actually make a difference. The rapporteur of the Left is also saying that it must be an unbureaucratic thing which does not have to apply to all municipalities, but which the municipalities can choose. I agree with that. The Enhedslisten specifically mentions Bøvlingbjerg, who has this grassroots experiment, as it is, where you buy a home, fix it up and let such a possible immigrant family move in and see what it's like to live in such a place for a few weeks. I've read about it. I haven't seen it yet, but I'm looking forward to doing that, because I think it's quite excellent too. It is also part of the solution. This cannot be the whole solution, let alone the clients we are talking about here, but it is also part of the solution. The alternative is among other things: on the point that this is one thing, and the conditioning of the dwelling comes there etc., but what about the demolition pool? It is absolutely true that we have unfortunately seen that the demolition pool has decreased in recent years and that there is a need to look at the size of that pool. Both the Conservatives and the SF were positive, and I sign for that. Thank you. Then I have been in telephone contact with the Radical Left, which also supports the proposal. Then I can conclude that there is support for the whole proposal. In other words, we are very much looking forward to the negotiations that are now being convened. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142327	A further comment is possible. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142332	I understand that the rapporteur is happy. I would just like to reflect on the fact that it is quite rare for the Social Democratic Party to table motions for resolutions. In fact, it is very rare and it is sometimes also the case that it is difficult to get the Social Democratic Party to vote on a motion for a resolution tabled by several parties. I would therefore like to hope that the Social Democratic Party will reflect on today's victory and perhaps arrange more bus tours in reality and then table more motions for resolutions, because why not put forward motions for resolutions which can be adopted in the Folketing when the opportunity is there? Now it has to be said that so far it's 1-0 on that list of possible victories. So it's just an appeal that the Social Democrats are using this tool to table resolutions. Of course, in the Enhedslisten, we would like to take part in some joint proposals. We can see lots of problems that need to be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142432	After such a good reception, I also believe that we are all aware that agreement is probably conditional on the subject itself and not necessarily on the fact that it comes from us Socialists. I have enough self-acknowledgment to know that's enough. But that doesn't change the fact that we can actually do something on the part of the Folketing to contain this. At the moment, this is the case on the basis of a motion for a resolution, and at other times it is the basis of a debate that is raised by others. However, regardless of how we proceed, it is certainly important that we move forward in this matter. So thank you for the advice of the Enhedslisten. I'll think about that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142509	Thank you. Then we are at the end of the road with both praise and applause and enthusiasm. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142529	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142551	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the government does not support the motion for a resolution tabled. Firstly, there are no problems with the current authorising rules for youth housing, so unnecessary regulation should not be introduced. The current rules for the provision of youth accommodation to students work for all municipalities, only one municipality has said that they want some other rules, and that is the City of Copenhagen. Secondly, my view is that competition between actors is healthy and helps to keep costs down and improve the quality of the services provided, in this case benefits for young students. The introduction of such a limited ceiling on the number of joint instructions as proposed here will put an effective end to all forms of competition for counselling in the area of youth housing. What is more, the motion for a resolution envisages that the individual municipality should be able to force general housing organisations to use the common guide, which is not an option today. So the government does not support the proposal because the existing authorising rules in the area of youth housing work and because the possibility of competition between local actors should be maintained. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142717	There is one brief comment, and that is to Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142722	Yes, the current rules work, but they do not work well enough. If you are a young person who is about to study in the Copenhagen area, it is a maze to find where you are going to live, and perhaps the place of education is at Frederiksberg. If you come from Jutland, you may not think that it is quite natural that there are two municipalities in Copenhagen where you can be written up on a waiting list for youth housing. Sometimes you have to be inspired by good things going on in Aarhus. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at the general housing in Aarhus, you have one waiting list for all the housing associations and you can find that out and there is also for the youth residences. If you go through with this, we will see that we have something that will work better. It becomes clearer for young people that they do not need to be on a waiting list so many places to be lucky for a home. Can't the Minister see that it could work better?
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142830	Well, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen's reference to Aarhus shows that it is easy to do so if you want to do so today. Currently there are two joint instructions in the City of Copenhagen, and the justification for this is shown among other things. the fact that some of the landlords find that when they switch from a common order to another common order, there are lower costs associated with it for the landlords. In other words, it is because they have a better way of operating common direction in one place, at least in a cheaper way, and there are some landlords who would like to take advantage of that. So it seems that it has its justification to have two common directions in the City of Copenhagen. But if you in Copenhagen think it works better with you, you can easily do it. And thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen to show that you just do it in Aarhus because you think it's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142918	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115142921	Yes, but in Aarhus it could probably work even better, because it could be that there were youth homes in Skanderborg Municipality that you could have on the same list. And there I think it would be a good thing if we adjusted the legislation. Now the Minister mentions that competition is good, but there is competition between private rentals and what is common in youth housing and other types of study accommodation. So the competition's already there. I think it is artificial to have these two lists in Copenhagen. And, as the Minister also said, there is a desire from Copenhagen that it should be changed, so that you came up with only one list. So I think it is a good proposal that we have put forward, and it is also clear that it is something that has been consulted under the former Left Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143006	Well, in Aarhus you can also run a common guide for accommodations in Skanderborg if you want to. There is nothing in the legislation that prevents that, you can just do that. But now there is nothing in the proposal that comes from Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, that they should be forced to do so fortunately. However, it is only within the same municipality that it must be compulsory for one to have one common position. So, compared to working in Aarhus with homeowners in Skanderborg, you can already do so today, and you should not do so to a greater extent because you are adopting this motion for a resolution from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. After all, the proposal is not that bad, but it is bad enough in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143046	We thank the Minister and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Van den Broek. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143056	Thank you for that, President. On the part of the Social Democrats, we believe that it is a major problem for housing policy that there is not enough youth housing, study accommodation, that there are not enough study homes of those who are rented out for rents that can be paid within, for example, a su and a study job. So in this way we are in agreement with what I also sense is the intention of the Enhedslisten, which is that we want to ensure that the young people's homes that exist are assigned in accordance with transparent principles. I believe that social democracy has also introduced, together with the Enhedslisten at Copenhagen City Hall, a system whereby a discount is granted to the colleges which form part of a common waiting list, whereas the colleges which prefer to have their own waiting lists do not benefit from the same discount. We really think that this is a sign that at least some sort of grip can already be taken in the municipalities. The proposal before us seems to us to be sensible in its entirety, but there are a few questions that we really would like answers to before we can really agree to it: what does this joint instructions mean if, as the proposal says, one chooses to accept the direction of another municipality from a college or a youth housing department? If, for example, you are going to be able to choose for yourself, then you will be able to choose for yourself. is a dorm in the municipality of Tårnby to join Copenhagen, despite the fact that in Tårnby you may have an ambition to have a common youth accommodation? I can see that in the case of general housing, we are stuck where our support has been obtained, but for the remaining ones, which are, after all, most youth housing, we would like to see that clarified. Then we are in doubt as to what that will mean for, for example, an arrangement such as that in Copenhagen. Well, there are quite a lot of older colleges in Copenhagen, and it is typically those that are made on private initiative, the Egmont College, Otto Mønsted College, which is rented on some special rules. Will it have any significance for them, will they have to join such a waiting list system, or will they be able to maintain what they already have in return for paying a higher price? Then we have some doubts about the issue in relation to the metropolitan area. It can be said that all the universities and educational institutions located in the municipality of Copenhagen, the municipality of Frederiksberg, the municipality of Lyngby-Taarbæk and around other suburbs of Copenhagen, the more or less part of the same overall admission area, i.e. if you go to Roskilde University, there is a very high probability that you live in the municipality of Copenhagen. Is there something in this which is leading up to a solution across the 20-30 capital municipalities that form part of the large area in which you go to settle, so that you could, for example, seek common ground, whether you end up living in the municipality of Tårnby or in the municipality of Gladsaxe or in the municipality of Copenhagen? We would like to know that too. But with these comments, we have not yet done our job on the part of the Social Democrats in relation to this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143433	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143441	I have to admit that this is not really a problem that I have been presented with in the past. After all, I have held some meetings over time. Perhaps that is why I think it might be a bit too much to exalt it into law. The possibility exists today, and the proposers themselves have already recognised this, and we believe that the voluntary way is usually the best way to go. As long as there is no legislation to limit the voluntary conclusion of these agreements around where you might think it is a good idea, we do not need to go any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143523	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143531	Thank you for the floor. What we are seeing is that Enhedslisten will change a system that is actually working well, and we really do not think there is any reason for that. What we see in this way is that there is a problem in one place, and we think that we need to resolve this with local initiatives, and we hope that we can find out. That is why we really do not see any reason to change the rules and we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143605	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143617	Thank you. We would like to follow the line of rapporteurs who advocate that this is a minor problem. And if there is a problem, it is a problem that we think should be resolved locally. If it is a problem for students in Copenhagen that you have two places to write up, I am afraid that it says a little more about study suitability. We need to be careful not to shoot grey sparrows with guns. We're used to that in here and inventing problems that are solved much better out locally. In fact, I think this is an example of it, and in those words I would say that we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143700	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143708	Thank you for that, President. B 8 • Proposal for a parliamentary decision on a maximum of one joint instruction of youth residences in a municipality and the possibility of a single joint instruction across municipalities. The arguments against: 1) The recommendation, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, is that a system that may actually work today should be changed. 2) Can't the young people figure out how to sign up in two places? 3) It may be difficult for municipalities to deal respectfully with specific problems with youth housing, e.g.: if they have a high proportion of disabled people or other vulnerable young people to be given priority. 4) The proposal may make it difficult for municipalities to turn up and down the criteria which they consider to best handle their housing flow. Those were the drawbacks. The advantages: BL and KL have among others. I do not know whether it has already been mentioned that the harmonisation and modernisation of the youth housing area in the draft law L 143 of the 2016-17 collection was tampered with by the government on the grounds that it wanted to carry out further analysis of the consequences of the proposed rules in this area. KL and BL and many others agreed to harmonise the rules in the area of youth housing in order to address problems of incalculable administration. On the other hand, it can be said that it is easy to sign up in different places, but there is already pressure on young people's lives, and they have to meet a lot of demands and expectations about their performance in their study life, while at the same time they may not have a home and are therefore also pressured mentally here. So there may be plenty to keep track of, and perhaps you are even moving from another municipality in the country. So, as a starting point, we are actually in favour of seeing whether we can create a more transparent solution, but it is also with some of the reservations I have mentioned that we have to take in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143928	Thank you to the rapporteur. If I have understood correctly, it is the case that Mr. Kaare Dybvad, the Social Democratic Party, also spoke on behalf of Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left, and that means that we have now come to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF, who speaks on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115143943	Thank you. The search for youth housing today is a long and complicated process. Then it may well be that the attentive listener thinks: What does she know about it? But now I am also a mother and have tried to stand with young people who have faced the situation of having to find this youth home on a lot of different platforms when you come to some municipalities. And if you come from the other end of the country and have to move to a whole new city, it can actually be really, really difficult to understand what kind of place you are looking for and what is really possible in that area. It is of course easy, as long as you are from Aarhus, to find out what lies of accommodations in Aarhus, but if you e.g.. to move to Copenhagen or to Aalborg or to Odense, you just aren't necessarily dressed in advance. That is why we also think it makes very good sense to have one common guide for youth housing in a municipality, so that young students should not seek accommodation in different places with different waiting lists and different instruction criteria and sometimes also for different money. As the rules are today, the system is less effective, I think, and it is very difficult for individual students to see through how and how they should behave in their home search. That is why it also makes sense to ensure greater transparency and clarity for young people in the application process. That is why we are also thinking that it would make good sense to work on a municipality or, for example, a municipality. several municipalities could go together for a common guide across municipalities. That is why the SF also intends to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution if it is put to the vote, but we are also happy to take part in discussions on other options to strengthen transparency in relation to youth housing, possibly in the committee procedure, or if the Minister should perhaps come back to that corner and vote for a proposal or invite negotiations, we are also in favour of it. However, it makes very good sense to facilitate the application process for our young people when it is the case that they have to move from one end of the country to another, when they have to start a study and that you have to be on only one waiting list and not perhaps on both two and three and four lists. But the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115144210	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115144218	Thank you very much. This motion for a resolution, as the previous rapporteurs have said, is about amending the law so that there can be no more than one unit of youth housing in a municipality. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution, and that is because the rules already give it the opportunity today. In addition, as several of the previous rapporteurs have also said, I would also like to say that this is a very limited problem. It is one municipality where there is not one common direction, and that is something that could be resolved locally, so we do not think that there is any need to start legislation on this either. So with these comments I would say that we cannot support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115144307	I would like to thank the rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115144315	It is a little special to table a motion for a resolution which is based on the fact that a Left Government has made a bill which was in consultation. And it has not progressed because of something, perhaps a change of government, a change of minister or whatever it may be, that it was not considered so important, or that the consultation answers did not support the draft law. We do not know for sure, but in the Enhedslisten we have at least intended to go to make it easier for housing-seeking young people to understand it and to create more transparency. And there will be, if you had to keep only one list in Copenhagen, so that you do not have two lists in Copenhagen. And we also think it would be a good thing to arrive at an increased interest in making waiting lists where housing is sought in several municipalities. That would make it easier for young people, and that has been our intention. And so it has to be said that there are some citizens here today who want to strengthen this less effective system that we have now. I would like to thank the SF and the alternative for supporting the proposal, and I would like to thank you for half the support from the Social Democratic Party. The questions that Mr. Kaare Dybvad has travelled here today, I am sure that we can turn around in a committee session so that we can clarify what this will have to do with, for example, what it will have to do with. These dorms that could be fund-owned. I now find that there is a certain amount of voluntaryness in things, so it would be nice to look at the consultation answers from the previous round of the legislative proposal, and that would certainly give us the opportunity to be precise about what it would mean if this resolution were adopted. And there is no provision for it to be adopted with the composition that the Folketing now has. But there is hope ahead. There must be elections within one year, and there will be an opportunity to choose a completely different composition of the Folketing, and perhaps we can get a housing minister who may only have the residential area as his ministry and who will give priority to housing policy. And I really think we need that. We need an increased focus on youth housing problems. One thing is that there are not enough youth housing. Something else is so that for many young people it seems so opaque when it comes to seeking something in the Greater Copenhagen area. I would very much like us to come up with solutions that will make it easier for young people to seek youth housing. And that is what our motion for a resolution is intended to do here, in other words to arrive at the idea that there should be only one unit of youth housing in a municipality and that priority should be given to only one unit of instruction across municipalities. I think that would make life easier for young people looking for accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115144637	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181115144659	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, November 16, 2018, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
