ParlaMint-DK_20180418130012	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Social Affairs (Mai Mercado): Bill no. L 221 (Proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination based on disability). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 141 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the protection of consumers' rights in the purchase and maintenance of electrical appliances). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I have to inform you that the co-questioner on this issue under No. 8 questions addressed to the Minister of Taxation will be answered at the request of the co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130053	The first question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130103	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130104	Will the Minister take the initiative to amend the various conventions to make it easier to expel criminal foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130115	Thank you for the question. The questioner has asked me to report whether we are going to change the conventions we are part of, and to that I have to say that the government's policy is quite clear. We want Denmark to enter into active international cooperation and that Denmark must comply with the conventions that we have signed up to. But it is not the same as not being sceptical and reacting when international rules and systems prevent us from acting in a way that we think is obviously right. We should not be afraid to try to change things when it is needed. This is precisely the thinking behind the government's initiative to reform the human rights system as part of the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. That work led last week to the conclusion of a large and important agreement between 47 countries here in Copenhagen, what we call the Copenhagen Declaration. It is a ground-breaking agreement that will ensure a more balanced human rights system, which will provide more room for manoeuvre for individual countries. This is of crucial importance in the field of expulsion, which is being asked here. At the same time, we must follow up nationally, and we do. In February, the government put forward a bill to tighten up the Danish expulsion rules. With the bill, we go all the way to the border and make use of the increased space for expulsion, so we are working specifically both nationally and internationally to ensure better opportunities for expelling criminal foreigners, and we are delivering clear results both internationally and nationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130301	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130302	It was very nice to have an answer from the Minister, an answer that I have actually missed since last week. What I wondered about last week when I sent my question was that I was told that the Minister could not prepare for it on Wednesday because the Minister had a big conference on Thursday and, funny enough, a very, very big article in the Jyllands-Posten on that issue. And the question I asked the Minister was a question of opinion. And yes, as a new member of parliament, it is possible to get caught up in a few procedures, but of course I am now getting an answer to my question. I think it is important to focus on having criminals expelled, because we have some citizens who have suffered either a rape or some violent crime of some kind that makes that citizen feel offended. And a citizen who feels very, very offended can see that some people who are deeply criminals are not expelled. They walk on the street and you wait for them to get a verdict. It is very offensive to those citizens. It is of course very insulting to them, if we are talking about rape or very serious crimes of violence, that these people are not being expelled, that is, the fact that they can still refer to some human rights conventions. We have seen examples of reference being made to the fact that prison conditions in the countries concerned are tougher than in Denmark. So what is important, also in terms of the citizens' sense of justice, and that they feel safe, is that we make sure that we simply deport these criminals because they help destroy our society. And a broken Dane is a ruined Dane too much. That is why it is very important. I think it is okay to try to focus some attention on the conventions, but we also have to tell the countries concerned that criminals and people who commit something criminal in Denmark are just not going to accept it. Then we have to do it, we have to look at these issues, and fortunately we now have the opportunity to do so in relation to our alien law. We do not think that the conventions should be the ones that overrule Danish law, and we should be allowed to do these things there. So I would like to ask that the Minister of Justice, which we are proposing, be deported at least the criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130504	Well, I find that very difficult to disagree with. If people live in this country and are not Danish citizens and commit rape that was the example, but it can be so much other crime so gross crime, then I think you have given yourself a ticket to travel somewhere else. There, too, we have seen that there is indeed room for manoeuvre, as the Institute of Human Rights has also pointed out, in relation to how the Supreme Court has ultimately judged and how it has been viewed by the Strasbourg Court. That is why we now have a change of law on the way, which I am sure the Danish People's Party supports. That would surprise me otherwise. People shouldn't be here if they commit crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130549	Thank you. Here you go to the questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130550	It's nice to hear that the minister is putting up with this, because people feel really, really offended. We can see that. You have some people who come to this country and who want to be part of Danish society, and then they commit something criminal. And then there is the fact that you cannot have them deported immediately, because reference is made to some conventions which, funny enough, were made at a time when it was a completely different agenda we had. Therefore, it is also important that this signal is sent out that it is a completely different world agenda that we have now, as I have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130622	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130623	I agree with that, and I will try to address what happened last week, because it is actually important. Ministers from more than 20 countries, for not everyone meets ministers, among others. Britain, Germany, France and Russia were in Copenhagen last week, and that is because these are important reform issues. These are important reform issues and it was ambitious. In relation to Article 8, the problem is not the wording. The problem is the way in which it has been interpreted in cases of expulsion. And this is precisely where we will have an increased political space. That is also what needs to be done, because it is the politicians who are supposed to be able to decide how this is to be done, of course, within a framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130706	Thank you. Here you go. That is the final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130708	Does the Minister consider it appropriate for there to be international conventions which stand in the way of Danish interests in relation to expelling criminal foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130718	Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130726	I think that was the next question. Oops, I got to read the question).
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130740	The first question is closed. Then there is a new question for the Minister of Justice from Mr. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130759	So I ask the next question: does the Minister consider it appropriate for there to be international conventions that stand in the way of Danish interests in relation to expelling criminal foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130809	Thank you for the question. I shall try not to repeat myself, because we are a little on the same street here as on the previous question. I do not think anyone is in doubt about my or the government's attitude towards criminal foreigners. Criminal foreigners have nothing to do in Denmark, and foreigners who commit serious crime must be expelled from the country. That is why we must also do what we can to ensure that criminal foreigners are expelled as far as possible. And so do we. As I mentioned when answering the previous question, we reached this agreement last week between 47 countries, which will give us more room for manoeuvre, among other things. the territory of expulsion. And then, as has been said, we have new legislation on the way to ensuring that we take advantage of the room for manoeuvre we see in relation to the international conventions. It is well known that, although we in the government agree with the Danish People's Party far along the way on many of these issues, there may be some things on which we are not so much in agreement. We believe in international cooperation and in compliance with international conventions. Therefore, the government's view is that Denmark has a clear interest in a strong international legal order. We therefore believe that it is possible to do so, while at the same time being very obscene to have people expelled from Denmark when they commit serious crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418130926	But we also see examples of different countries starting to oppose the conventions. Australia has been looking at something about the conventions. We can feel that among other things. Austria is also taking action in relation to some tightening and to doing some things there. We also have some EU countries, among others. Hungary and others who go in and look at what you want in terms of expelling criminals. This means that you can see that there is a bleeding in Europe, especially in the old Eastern countries, which would very much like to take a look at this. So what I would like to ask is, of course, whether you have had a dialogue with those countries that are very positive about having this problem of having criminal asylum seekers and immigrants expelled you are talking about that there are some who are positive and some who are critical and whether you might be able to go with the critical countries, so that we get the best possible tools, get these people together and maybe get a look at the experiences they have, among other things. has done in Australia and in various other places. Because it can be seen, when it comes to conventions, that some countries do not interpret them as harshly as we do in the European countries, that there are some places where they actually have some exceptions to the conventions which enable them to act better on opportunities. In other words, within the existing conventions, in cooperation with some of the other countries, we can actually make much, much stricter demands. Can we find ourselves in a situation where, in relation to the conventions, if the countries in question say that they will not amend the conventions, because some people have some sort of closed agenda in relation to the conventions, we, as a country, will have to send a signal that we must either terminate them or choose to say to those countries that we must withdraw from this cooperation? And, if so, what consequences would it have for Denmark if we took such a drastic step, which many warn very much against?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131113	I do not think there is any doubt that a small country like Denmark needs to be part of a larger context and to have cooperation relations with some other countries, including larger countries. That is why I really like the approach that has been to it, among other things. of the countries which reached an agreement last week. Both Hungary and Austria are partners in the agreement we reached, and they have been with us in this. That is why it is very important that we stick to them. What this agreement offers is that more countries can join together. If there are any cases before the Court of Human Rights where it is felt that they are going too far, then we can simply go along with some other countries and react. This is one of the positive things that I think has come out of the agreement we reached on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131158	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131159	So what is being proposed is that if we come into some situations in relation to some cases where we cannot get someone expelled from the conventions, then there is the possibility of getting hold of other countries, so that, in a partnership agreement, we can go in and say that we are now making demands, for example. these countries that will not receive them, or other things in relation to the conventions, and, as you say, set up in cooperation with them to have the opportunity to deport these criminals. And if so, how many will it be about that we might have the opportunity to demonstrate in connection with such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131232	Now we have to keep our tongues in our mouths, because there are a lot of things in this and there are different conventions. But if we now stick to the European Convention on Human Rights, it is clear that it is not the Convention that we are going to change. But where we can go in and change something is when some countries come together and say: we therefore think that we are on our way out of the wrong track in Strasbourg. Then you can go in and have a dialogue, intervene and say that something is not right here. In fact, I expect a great deal of that, plus that we just have to say that it is also interesting to see the legislation we now have on the way in the Folketing. What is that going to mean here in Denmark? The most important thing is, of course, that we, in a Danish court, condemn people to expulsion. There is more room for manoeuvre, and we will now use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131318	It is of course important that we send this signal, because citizens who feel offended by some people we cannot show, because they are referring to conventions, will ask how it can be done, that we can punish Danish citizens, but others who come to this country and whom we provide protection, and who violate a Danish citizen, must also get this right-of-law awareness, so that when we have legislation that says they are sentenced to expulsion, it must also have a consequence, so that we have them sent out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131348	Last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131349	Well, I agree with that. In other words, there is a bit of an old current in some of these wires, because in Denmark the prosecution has not always consistently made a claim for expulsion. We've seen some cases, but not many, and you've only started doing this now. Now we have a clear position: that is, the prosecution claims expulsion every time there is any possibility of it. Fortunately, this has happened, and that also means that we will see more people being expelled. We also see a lot being deported, and I think that is very good when you commit serious crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131422	Thank you. Then there is a new question for the Minister of Justice by Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. There's a co-questioner, sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131432	Here you go, sir. Langballe for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131435	Thank you, President. The question is as follows: What is the Minister's view that the report of the Ministry of Justice's Research Office in May 2017 showed that there is a clear over-representation of immigrants from non-western countries when you look at statistics of convicted rapists, with 23%. of the rapists are non-western immigrants, despite the fact that they are only 6%. of the 15-79-year-olds in Denmark, where ethnic Danes make up 61 per cent by comparison. of the convicted rapists, and what initiatives will the government take to deal with the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131524	Thank you and thank you for the question. No matter how you put up the figures, we can at least agree that there is a problem. I would like to begin by saying that I strongly reject rape crimes. It is, of course, in every way an insulting crime, a crime which unfortunately has both major physical and psychological consequences for the victim. That is why I must also say clearly that it is totally unacceptable when foreigners come to Denmark and commit crimes, as in the case of rape, but it could also be other forms of serious crime. Yes, it is totally unacceptable when you commit crime at all. There is a sharper focus on the fight against rape both by the government and by the police and the prosecution. In June 2016, the sentence for rape was increased from 21⁄2 years in prison to 31⁄2 years in prison in cases where violence or threat of violence occurred. In addition, a whole new focus has been put on helping the victims as best they can. Then, as part of the gang package, we have put forward a number of concrete proposals for tightening up the expulsion rules so that we can hopefully have more criminal foreigners expelled. I have also stated to the Attorney General that it is my clear expectation that the prosecution will have full attention to deporting as many criminal foreigners as possible. At the same time, it is also important that we focus on preventing rape and other sexual offences from occurring. In the area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, a number of initiatives have been launched to strengthen the knowledge of asylum seekers and newly arrived refugees on democratic principles and equality and sexual morality in Denmark. At the same time, the teaching of Danish standards, values, duties and rights has been strengthened on the Danish courses offered, for example. immigrants and family couples. So, overall, a number of initiatives have been taken, and I think that is important. But most importantly, I think that we have tightened the penalties and that we have insisted that people should be expelled if they commit serious crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131729	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131731	What really makes me sad when we talk about this is that barbarism is spreading in Denmark as well as in the rest of Europe. Take Sweden, where an old article that I read here the other day shows that next after Lesotho Sweden is the country in the world where there are most rapes. I think it is thought-provoking that irresponsible politicians have let this barbarism in. Politics is, of course, a discipline of action, where you then put power behind words and realise them and make them a reality. What I would like to call for is simply to do an automatism which means that if people who are temporarily staying or asylum seekers are raped here in Denmark, they will be expelled immediately. I would clearly prefer that, and I would say that it is fair, because people we have given up in our country should not meet that stay with such little gratitude or with such great contempt for the Danes that they then go out and rape. I just think it scares me. It frightens me that it is not only in Denmark that it is so the worst of it but that it is actually a common European problem with which all other countries are wrestling. Then, to repeat myself, I would like to call for an automatic entry into the judgments they receive, so that they are immediately expelled with the message that we do not want them here in our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418131920	Yes, well, Denmark is not Sweden now, and I also hope that the questioner agrees with me that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has made quite a lot of efforts in the whole area here. We have tightened up on a great many areas, both on the part of foreigners, which belongs to my good colleague, but also on the whole legal aspect, i.e. the punishment. However, as I said, I agree with the questioner, and that is why I have said in this way that I have the clear expectation that the Attorney General will have full attention to getting people expelled. When they commit this kind of crime, I actually mean that they should be deported. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132003	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132005	I should like to congratulate the Minister on his commendation. There should be no doubt that the Minister and the Danish People's Party have jointly tightened up, so there is no lack of gratitude from this. I think it's good. But what I just need in this discussion is this last touch that you could take, where you said that it is not the courts that have to assess it either, but that it is actually something we put into the law itself, namely that if you commit serious rapes, you commit rapes, then you get out immediately. Actually, I would think that was fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132042	Yes, and there I will probably raise the flag that says that I think it is up to the courts to decide. After all, I agree with the view that if you come here and ask for shelter and protection and then commit rape, it is, in fact, a signal that you do not want to be here, I think, or at least you have excluded yourself. But I still think it is up to the courts to take that decision. But I can guarantee, or I feel convinced, that now you have to be careful what you guarantee in this world that in those cases, if that happens today, there will be an application for expulsion from Denmark. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132118	Here you go, sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132129	I think it is positive that the Minister is focusing on this. Because when you're one of them... Looking at what rape victims are experiencing, you can see that half of the rape victims are getting ptsd, that more of them are actually considering suicide, that they have completely destroyed the opportunity to have a family life. And what I think we should be sending a signal about is: If you come to Denmark and do something as offensive as practicing rape against a Danish woman, then it is true. It has to be something that sends that signal. That is what we need to think about when we destroy Danish citizens, especially women, whom we hope for in relation to the Danish labour market and other things. And when we have someone from outside who apparently chooses to have a laissez-faire attitude to it, we must send a signal that it simply does not work out and that if women go out and face such a situation, they must feel that it has a very, very great consequence. So it is important, and as the Minister of Justice presents it, it is also the signal that I hear the government is going to send.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132231	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132232	In other words, I should like to stress that there is no doubt that I am committed to ensuring that as many criminal foreigners as possible, including rapists, can be expelled from Denmark. There should be no discussion about that. And that is also why the agreement that I referred to sometimes last week in relation to questions should precisely ensure greater room for manoeuvre when it comes to expulsions. Because we can discuss automation and so on, but for me it is important that it is the courts that make the decision. There we now have more room for manoeuvre, and hopefully we will also have the opportunity for people who commit such crimes to be expelled from the country, of course. I think it is quite natural that this is how it must be when you commit such crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132312	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132315	It is positive to hear that the government will send that signal, because we have to send that message. Because we do not want to end up in a situation like that in Sweden, where some people feel that nothing is happening. It must not be funny if we get into the situation that Danish women start to feel insecure by coming out into the streets because they know that it has no consequence and because the criminal in question can just go around saying: Well, but I would get some tough conditions in the home country, so I'm just doing what I want to do. So it's nice to hear that the government, among other things. Against the backdrop of some aggravated penalties for rape crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132350	Now that the questioner mentions it, it is a good opportunity to say just now that we are on our way there too. There will be a change in the criminal code in the next session, which states that cultural backgrounds can never, never, ever be a reason for having a different form of punishment than would otherwise have been given. It is clear that it is never an excuse what you carry in your luggage when you commit crime. So I think we are very much in line with that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132417	Thank you, sir. Carsten Kudsk. Then we'll be back to sir. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132423	Thank you. I think we are quite agreed that we leave it to the courts to pass judgment. In principle, however, I do not think it matters what you write into a law. In other words, if asylum seekers come to the country of rape, I would say that it should be automatic in itself for them to be immediately expelled. I simply do not think we can discuss this, and that is why I think it might be a good thing that it was not really up to the interpretation of the courts, but that we, as legislators, said that it was going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132459	Yeah, well, I'm not gonna throw myself in a legal interpretation of this. I guess I just feel like we have a law, and when we have a law, I think it's hard to say that it's a law that applies to some and not to others. We have a law that applies, and the law says that you get a prison sentence of, for example. Thirty-and-a-half years for rape. Then, alongside that, we have some rules on expulsion, some rules on what the prosecution is doing, in other words consistently claiming expulsion. And then the courts have to take a stand. I agree that people have to get out, but I just think it's the courts that have to make the verdict. But we can discuss that further.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132539	Thank you. And the question is closed. The next is for the Minister of Justice of Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132546	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132548	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that crime development, gang activity and radicalisation in Sweden pose a potential security problem for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132558	Thank you. After all, this is an issue that we had the opportunity to discuss earlier, among other things. At a hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs last year at a time a year ago, I think that was about the development of crime in Malmø. And then it was the police's assessment that there were no indications that there was any link between the development of crime in Malmø and the crime that took place in the police circles of Copenhagen and North Zealand. I also mentioned at the time that the Danish police closely monitor developments in Sweden and that there is generally good and close cooperation between the Danish and Swedish police. And I think it is really, really important that there is good and close cooperation. I simply do not have the opportunity, within the framework of an oral S question, to obtain further information from the National Police on the current situation, but if the questioner would like to know more about the updated concrete situation in Sweden today and any consequences for crime in Denmark, I would be happy to answer a written question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132706	Thank you for that reply. And I can already say that I am happy to accept the Minister's offer to gain more knowledge of what is going on on the other side of the Sound simply because we are deeply, deeply concerned when we see how things are going in Sweden. It is my clear impression that Swedish police and Sweden as a whole are in a state of dissolution, in a number of areas. Let me just read something from an article in Politiken last year, where it is described as: "All in all, the police think it's Swedish politics that there exist about 200 gangs in the areas. It is so that the exposed residential areas • the gangs tap together around 5,000 active members and up to 550 benchmark managers. Under them are at least 11,000 people described as at risk of ending up in the gang environments. Just on the gang side, there are some figures you could hardly imagine in Denmark, i.e. that there should be such a violent activity in the gang environment in this way. I am simply very concerned, I have to say, because Sweden is not only a neighbour of Denmark, but we are also a bridge-proof country with Sweden. When we see how this is going on in these vulnerable residential areas where the police are being attacked and how in some parts of Sweden people find it difficult to move out at all by the authorities, compared with a very high number of gang members; compared to Säpo's assessment that there are a very large group of people who are both Islamists and violent, I must say that I find it deeply worrying for Denmark to be bridge-fast with Sweden, which is the bridgehead of Islamism in the West, if you ask us. There I just want to hear the Minister: is there any plan to do anything about shielding us from what is currently happening in Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132857	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132859	There are many elements to this question. In fact, I think it is really, really interesting to discuss, because I think we share the concern about what the questioner is reading. It's crazy, and it's not something that just came over the night. This has been the case for a long time in Sweden, that is to say in Malmø, which the questioner is reading about. That is why I think we can be pleased that it has not come over here. And I guess it could be because we have some pretty much harder punishments with gang packages and other things that take very hard on these types. So I can just say that we will follow this very, very closely. This is also why there is a close dialogue between Swedish and Danish police. Because if we can see even the slightest sign that some of it is moving over here, we have to react very sharply and very quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132945	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418132947	So let me try a more specific question this time: does the Minister plan to tighten up the controls that exist over, for example, the United Kingdom? The Øresund Bridge or by the ferries further north to Sweden with more than the license plate scanners used today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133007	After all, border controls are not the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. But I think we should be pleased that we have these license plate recognizeers. It doesn't really matter. Well, it's actually a good tool. I have not heard that the government is planning to introduce a control there. However, I think the important thing is that we ensure that the conditions we have seen in Sweden do not become Danish. And there I think we have done so much together in this country to ensure that we do not end up in that situation. That we should then have a very, very vigilant eye on what is going on, because it should not move over the bridge, is quite another thing, and I very much agree with that, because we do not want this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133048	Last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133051	Then I just want to hear the Minister's suggestion on how the Swedish police are doing at the moment. There are also a number of articles out about recruitment difficulties that have changed the National Police Commissioner and a large number of things. For me, this is just a clear example of the fact that things in Sweden are simply not working. Swedish police are in complete disbandment, and in this situation I do not understand why one can be content to say that a license plate scanner has been put on the bridge. It is probably good and works and everything else, but we have to introduce something more. Doesn't the Minister mean that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133127	Well I am not an analyst of Swedish politics, and I think that as Minister of Justice in Denmark I should concentrate a lot on what is the Danish task. I can only say that it is crazy that what we see in some places in Sweden can happen. That is something we should take action against, and perhaps so are we. I don't know how to handle it in different neighbourhoods. What I think is important is that we have very, very close cooperation between the Danish and Swedish police, with the officers, so that we know what is going on. But perhaps I can answer that in more detail in a written question, because I think we can go a little wider on it than I can here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133206	Thank you. Then there is a new question from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. And there's a co-questioner, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133212	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133214	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of municipal video surveillance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133221-2	Thank you for the question. If I may use the word classic, I suppose that is what we have here. My starting point is clear: focus must be on proximity and security, and this means, for me, among other things, that we find solid and workable solutions around the country that are adapted to local needs and that way through will increase citizens' security. That's why there's also work going on to strengthen this video surveillance area. For me, this is not about video surveillance for the sake of video surveillance; it is clearly about how we increase security for ordinary Danes and how we can help the police in their work. As the questioner knows, the government and the Danish People's Party in the 2018 Finance Act have agreed on a pool for the police for what I call security cameras. This is about approx. 100 cameras in 50 locations where episodes of violence and unrest occur regularly from experience. I am convinced that this will lead to greater security in places where the problem has been experienced locally. The National Police expect the setup of cameras to begin at the end of May. Then there is also work on municipal television surveillance. After all, KL has asked all municipalities in Denmark how they view their need for video surveillance. The study has been sent to the Legal Affairs Committee. 26 municipalities have replied that there is a need for additional television surveillance to prevent and solve crime or to provide security for citizens, while 21 municipalities have replied that there is no need. 3 municipalities have not discussed it politically and 48 municipalities have not replied. So it has to be said that there is no clear picture of the need for television surveillance in the municipalities, and that is why the Ministry of Justice, on the basis of the feedback that one might say is a little mixed, has taken the initiative to meet with KL, with the National Police and with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior to discuss how we follow up the matter. But I can say to the questioner that there are some cameras coming here in May.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133422	Thank you. And then it's sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133424	We are also delighted when we helped finance them in the Finance Act for this year, that some cameras will come up around and very happy, and praise the government that it will then be implemented. But what I really want to go back to, and what I actually asked, was the municipal video surveillance which the Minister touches on at the end of his reply. I would have liked to hear, very much indeed, what the government's thoughts were about the study that has been made KL to carry out among the municipalities, and which has, of course, been spent a lot of energy on saying, among other things. In its replies in this Chamber, we waited. Now it's here, and I don't know if it's such a mixed picture. In other words, of the municipalities that have replied, there is a majority saying that you would like to have more tools. We in the Danish People's Party agree with that. We could also see that the municipalities had to have more tools. And what's interesting for us is to find out how the government looks at this investigation, i.e. whether the government also thinks this is moving towards having to look in this discussion at the framework of municipalities' opportunities to see if you can't get any more video surveillance. It is our clear starting point that we think the municipalities can stand for this; we think that our city council members around us can handle that. And then it will be close and local and safe, because you have a political discussion about this in our town council, instead of what is today a purely administrative decision. We believe that this will be positive. The minister started by saying that now you're going to have a meeting with the KL and with the National Police. Then we can start over if we're going to meet up with everyone again, despite the fact that we've got this investigation. When the Minister looks at what has been sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs from KL, does the government agree that it must draw in the direction of more opportunities for municipalities to monitor something more? Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133627	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133628	I think we should monitor where there is a need. And if you look at that questionnaire a little more closely, you might ask: how many municipalities have actually seen adversity here? 'Cause I feel like I really like it's the police who have to assess it. In other words, 14 out of 45 municipalities have announced that they have raised with the police a desire for television surveillance and that in four cases the police did not grant permission. I know that Kolding Municipality is one of them, and it has been the subject of discussions here. So most people get permission, and right now there's a process going on in the circuit councils around this, and then we can hope it solves the last thing. So I am thinking that it is not the case that the municipalities are going on unfinished business today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133721	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133723	Well, it's fine to take a status on what the system is like today. What I am asking is how we would like the system to be in the future. Well, there are 14 municipalities that have asked the police, and some of them have got the yes, and some of them have got the no. What I'm asking is, should we change the system? In other words, does this study lead the Minister to think: can we actually look at these rules, because we can see that there may be some political reason to say that we actually dare to trust the municipalities a little more in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133756	I trust one hundred percent in our municipalities, I've been sitting in one myself for 12-13 years. I guess it's because this could also be about criminal surveillance. And that is where I feel that we have a police force which is inside and which assesses when to authorise surveillance. I am not religious in this area; i.e., I am happy to discuss whether a freer framework can be provided. And it would also make sense for me to talk to the Minister for the Interior about it, because it gets so mixed up between him and me. So I'd like to discuss that. We just have to do it on a basis where we say: Well is the need there? After all, there are 48 municipalities that have not responded, and that really annoys me. It would have been nice if 98 had answered this question, so it would have been more unambiguous.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133844	Thank you. And then there is a fellow questioner, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133851	Thank you. And then I'll continue where my colleague left off. Because we would like to see some action from the Danish People's Party. We have stood down here repeatedly and have just appealed to the Minister of Justice to look into this area. But it is not enough just to look and have discussions; action also needs to be taken. So I would like to ask the Minister for Justice: when does the Minister for Justice expect Kolding Municipality to set up cameras in the nightlife where they consider there is a need for it? Perhaps the Minister could clarify that here, because the Minister says that we must monitor where there is a need. There are many in Kolding who consider that there is a need to monitor certain places in the nightlife. So when will any action be taken by the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418133941	I think it is an expression of a slippage in our society if it is such a little coincidence who thinks there is a need and who should decide the need. Well, I think there's something in principle that when we're dealing with this, the police are in. There are some cameras coming up in May, and now it is being discussed in the police circles, that is, in the circuit councils. I'm not the one who's pointing out the places. I think that would be bad, too. Now you get that discussion out in the circuit councils, and the police decide where these cameras are to be hung up. And then it comes here in May. What I say just as quietly is that I fully recognise that this is about the security agenda. But I am also just asking the question: is this a problem which the municipalities across the country think is huge or is it really a problem where four municipalities have not met their wishes? So what I'm saying is that there are some proportions in this as well. I mean, I've read a lot about how you said in Haderslev that it was really, really important. The municipality hasn't even answered this question. Well, I don't think that's good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134050	Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134052	No, I agree with the latter; of course it is not good enough when you have just asked for this. However, in relation to what the Minister of Justice says, the note that has been sent to us and I quote: on the basis of the examination of questions dealt with by the KL's Board of Directors, which has recommended that a solution be worked out, possibly through a change of law, after which the municipalities' attitude to the police on monitoring to a much greater extent than today must be followed by the police. Therefore, I do not think the Minister can just say that four municipalities are not as important as if it had been 98 municipalities. This is important for the four municipalities that need it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134131	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134132	I fully agree with that. I'm just talking about the proportions in the debate. As I also say, it's not religion for me, so you just can't do this. I am also in favour of discussing whether there can be a way of doing so to a much greater extent. And then we just have to agree with each other who pays it. We should then just agree on whether it is the police who are doing it, because in the budget law we are putting down some pool funds or whether it is municipal. And then let's have an open-minded discussion about it. I mean, I'm kind of in on that. I have no such resistance to this. I just want us to have some similar guidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134205	Thank you. I'm afraid there's nothing more for the co-questioner. But that's what it is for, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134215	Thank you. I think it is paradoxical when, on the one hand, you start your ministerial response by saying that you call it a safety camera because it makes people safe and, on the other hand, you do not really have any opinion on whether we should have more of it, roll it out, give the municipalities more powers. That is just what I think the Minister did so said something on the one hand and then said something on the other. And then we don't really know where we have the government. So I would just like to ask the Minister in my final round here: will the Minister have more video surveillance in the public space with some increased powers in relation to what can be done today, or is the status quo good enough for the minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134254	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134256	Well, the minister would like to have more surveillance in the public room if there is a need, so if you can see that, for example, there is a need. there is an increase in crime or somewhere in certain places. Then I think it makes really, really good sense. What we just have to find out is: how is this going to happen, within what framework, and who is going to pay for it? I take it very, very seriously. I'm just saying that it's not like a strip of municipalities have gotten no to get these security cameras up, and that's just where we have to find the balance. I am simply looking forward to those cameras coming up in May so that we know where they are going to hang.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134336	Thank you. And that concludes the question. The next is for the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, by Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134344	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134345	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that a single physical polling place is sufficient to take account of non-digital citizens in the statutory choice of consumer representatives in municipal utilities when the company's responsibility covers 1,982.5 km 2
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134410	Thank you for the question. As the consumer minister, I am very interested that the voice of consumers is heard in municipal utilities. I would like to begin by stating that the rules governing the choice of consumer representatives for utilities differ from one sector to another. The requirement to keep the choice of consumer representatives applies to companies providing consumers with water, heat or electricity. The statutes of these companies shall contain detailed provisions to ensure that consumer representatives are elected. The responsibility for planning and holding elections lies locally with the individual companies, which have an obligation for elections to be held in accordance with the law. It is, of course, important to make an effort to allow all citizens to participate on an equal footing in the election of their representatives. Digital voting in connection with the choice of consumer representatives offers opportunities for consumers to vote easily. At the same time, I believe it is important for companies to consider whether there are some consumers who cannot or cannot use digital solutions. Here it may be appropriate to give them more opportunities to vote. For example, it may be with physical polling stations and the possibility of correspondence voting. I would urge companies to consider how best to ensure that non-digital citizens have easy access to vote. For example, companies can do so. make by writing principles of accessibility in the choice of non-digital citizens into the provisions or in a guide for the choice of consumer representatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134551	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134552	Thank you for your answer. After all, the question is justified by the controversy surrounding DIN Supply, which covers Esbjerg and Varde Municipalities, which had chosen this solution with the only alternative to digital voting being attendance at the main office of the supply company. In the municipal elections last year, the municipality of Esbjerg had 24 polling stations, and Varde Municipality considered that 23 polling stations, like the number needed to reach the citizens, were 47 polling stations in total. I, like the Minister, am concerned that these consumer representatives come into the boards with a strong mandate, and a mandate is anything else equally stronger when you have a high vote and many who can take part in the elections. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister would like to go a little closer to these utilities. So perhaps I would just like to ask the Minister, with a follow-up question, what does he mean by calling for the possibilities to be extended? Is it a letter with good ideas that you send out to the utilities, or can it be that we go a little closer and define what it really takes to ensure that everyone can take part in the elections to these boards, to which they all pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134714	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134715	Thank you again to the questioner for that question. I am concerned that the democracy that exists also works. I am also concerned that it is important for there to be a high percentage of votes, and it must be said, when you look beyond the landscape, that it is not the choice of consumer-owned or municipal companies that have the highest percentage of votes. So quite imagine that we are going to have as many polling places as a municipal election, I would say an exaggeration. However, it would be natural for us to have a dialogue with the Danish Energy Association and to point out to them that it is important that we ensure that non-digital citizens also have the opportunity to vote, and that there is also a reasonable possibility of doing so, including the possibility of ordinary correspondence voting.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134804	Well, I am glad to have the sympathy that you want to take the dialogue with the companies. This is, you might say, a textbook example of some citizens really wanting to vote in these elections. There were even private people who had rented buses to carry older citizens in particular to the headquarters so that they could vote. So I would just like to end by thanking the Minister for wanting to go into the matter and engage in dialogue with the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134835	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134837	Thank you again for the question, which, of course, focuses on this issue. I would say that it not only focuses on this, but also focuses on how to achieve a well-functioning democracy in our utilities, in the municipal-owned companies. How do we ensure that citizens are properly involved? This is, in fact, a relevant issue, which is why I thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134859	That's it. Thank you. The next question is to the Minister for Health by Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134912	Thank you very much, President. And I should like to read out the question: what is the Minister's view of the possibility of having the new medical helicopter based at the central Sindal airfield, which already has the necessary permits in place, and does the Minister see any possibility of advancing the start-up of the helicopter's operation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418134935	Thank you for the question. The Danish Government and the Danish People's Party have decided with the 2018 Finance Act to strengthen emergency preparedness with another emergency medical helicopter to be based in northern Denmark. We have done so because the extension of the national emergency medical helicopter scheme will be even more likely to strengthen the emergency response in those areas of the country where there is a relatively long distance to the nearest specialist hospital. So it's about security, and it's about quick help. We've set aside 45 million. kr. from 2019 until the establishment of the fourth emergency medical helicopter in order to enable the emergency medical helicopter to be put into service per year; 1 January 2019. As I hear the feedback from the regions, it will not be practical to go into operation before, but it is clear that this is something that we are following. This is partly due to the fact that an agreement had to be concluded with a supplier; the purchase, purchase and construction of a new helicopter; and the establishment of the necessary facilities for helicopter and crew. The location of the emergency medical helicopter shall be technically justified and shall also take into account the principles established by the Emergency Committee back in 2012. This is also why a process has already been set in motion, involving professional views, and also with the involvement of the regions, which are jointly operating national emergency medical helicopters. If I should then briefly explain what is in favour of and against a possible location in Sindal, I can say that for Sindal it is a location that will meet the criterion of bringing the sick person to a specialised hospital as soon as possible, if you look in isolation at the northern region of North Jutland, as the questioner also points out. What is against Sindal is that the helicopter will cover an area of much water, that the helicopter does not have a size and capacity to assist in emergency rescue at sea, and that it will also cover a relatively small population base. The helicopter will also not be able to relieve the existing helicopters, as the southern and western part of the North Jutland Region will continue to be better covered by the Skive helicopter. Then there are also some leisure activities in Sindal, among others. parachute jumps that may delay both departure and landing for the helicopter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135156	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135158	First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for this fairly comprehensive answer. After all, there is no doubt that Vendsyssel is extremely pleased that it has succeeded in getting money off the budget to get that medical helicopter. It was originally the case, when people started talking about medical helicopters in Denmark, that Vendsyssel had been cut completely out of the map. They weren't covered in this. There you got a sort of patching solution with an emergency medical car instead, which has also proved to be good and effective in many ways, but of course is not quite the same solution. It was then proposed that the amount set aside for this should be phased out, and there we have had to fight a struggle at local and regional level to ensure that Vendsyssel can also have fair and decent coverage. It's just necessary. It's a great need. The other day on TV 2 Nord there was a broadcast where they gave an example from Karstensen's shipyard in Skagen. They have an employee who has an epileptic seizure, gets hurt badly and needs help. And it's gonna be 37 minutes before there's an ambulance ready. The fact is that the road that goes from Ålbæk to Skagen is associated with incredibly much congestion. We, who are transport rapporteurs, are a little squeezed to ensure that that road is extended, but there are still massive problems. So there are places in Vendsyssel where there is far too long waiting. There, having a medical helicopter based in Sindal, which is very centrally located, at least in Vendsyssel, would do that to the people who, for example, have a medical helicopter based in Vendsyssel. Living in Skagen, Hirtshals and Brønderslev, it will be possible to find that it is something more realistic to be picked up quickly with a medical helicopter there than if it is the case that you have to fly from Aalborg, or as it is today, where there is a medical helicopter right down at Skive, and where it is unrealistic. So I think it would be very good if the Minister could squeeze on further to ensure a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135418	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135420	Thank you. It is precisely for those reasons that the Danish People's Party and the government decided with the Finance Act to allocate money to a fourth emergency medical helicopter. It is because there are parts of the country where we are deteriorating by the appearance of roads, not least during the tourist season, where roads may be sandier even more. It is quick help coming from the air, and therefore a fourth emergency helicopter is an important part of ensuring security throughout the country, including in the northern part of our country. But it is also important to take account of the professional and overall considerations, because there is also a southern and western region of the North Jutland Region, and the fourth emergency helicopter must be involved with the three existing emergency helicopters, and therefore it is important to think together. This is why we have also asked for some professional settings for the optimal location. Then I have to stress again what I said at the beginning, namely that what also speaks against Sindal is that there are skydiving and school flights which may make it impossible to take off in acute situations. This was also the reason why the Skive project was placed in a bar field and not at the existing airfield. It was simply for security reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135524	I think that if there were an opportunity to place something in the immediate vicinity of the Sindal airfield, one would also be very pleased with it. So there are quite a lot of land that can be used for any of this. But can the Minister tell us what the difference is in response time, in relation to whether you have a medical helicopter from Sindal or from Aalborg or elsewhere from North Jutland? Does the Minister have any overview of where to get the optimal response time? So, what are the considerations there? It must, of course, be the starting point for saving lives that response time is as short as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135602	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135603	The whole point of departure for purchasing a fourth emergency medical helicopter is that the three existing ones are reaching their maximum capacity, and if we are to ensure that we do not each time have to assess whether this is the one place to fly or whether that is the other, we must have more capacity, and that is what the government, together with the Danish People's Party, is now ensuring. And then there will be a professional attitude as to how to take account of both what the reaction time is and how to cover the most citizens. For an important part of it is also that you reach out and create security for as many citizens as possible in the northern part of the country in connection with the location of the fourth emergency helicopter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135638	Thank you. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135640	Then I would like to remind you that when you look at how to cover the most or how to reach the most, you also have to look at what the citizens who are in one area have of other options. And if some of the extra citizens you can cover with a medical helicopter are some who can quite well reach the hospital in a reasonable time with an ambulance, then it does not have the same value as being able to give a very short response time to those who cannot be reached by an ambulance. And I would like to ask once again whether the Minister cannot tell us what the difference in response time is if, for example, he is not able to tell us what the difference in response time is. to pick up a patient in Skagen, whether you're flying out of Sindal, or whether you're flying out of Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135715	Last answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135716	There is a professional attitude in relation to the location, which must take account of both how quickly you move out, and also how many you cover. Then I just have to say that the fact that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, is now deploying a fourth emergency medical helicopter, does not mean that the regions can then cut back on the other emergency preparedness. It must also be strong, and it also means that both the local heart rescue, medical ambulances, paramedics are important parts of the whole of having security, also in the outermost regions, also in Skagen, which I can hear the questioner is very concerned about. That's why it can't be an either-or. This is a boat-and-where we should not only look at the helicopter, but see the helicopter as an important addition to our further emergency response in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135754	Thank you. That concludes the question. The next question is to the tax minister, and that is by Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135803	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135804	Thank you. When it is only about the richest half of the deceased single people who leave behind a fortune of more than DKK 300,000, would the Minister agree that it is misleading to claim that a cashier is affected by the inheritance tax, since she will probably be among the poorest half of the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418135824	Thank you for the question. After all, the current debate on the residence and gift tax and on inheritance taxes in general, i.e. whether they should be reduced or not, hits down. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, has implemented a reduction in the housing and gift tax by the generational change of business activities, and by 2020 the price of living and gift fees will gradually be reduced to 5%. And we also have an ambition to completely remove the housing and gift tax for business businesses and also by converting a company into a fund. In this respect, it is obvious to ask whether we should go further along this path, for example. do as in Sweden, where no residence and gift tax is paid in other cases where inheritance or gift is handed over to the next generation. Here's the answer, it wants the government. The government would like that. However, this must be given priority in relation to the other wishes that exist for the reduction of taxes and duties. A reduction in the inheritance tax will benefit a wide range of the Danes. This is true, for example. a cashier or factory worker who leaves a parcel house, provided that the total fortune is higher than the base allowance of DKK 289,000, i.e. just under DKK 300,000. The relief will, of course, depend on the size of the fortune. So to reply very briefly to what is being asked about after this long run, it is not right to say that all the cashiers would have a relaxation, but given that there is a great deal inheriting above the bottom line, there will also be quite a lot of cashiers who will benefit from such a relaxation. But of course everyone else will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140020-2	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is true that this is a discussion we have also taken in relation to the companies, where the government, together with the Danish People's Party, unfortunately chose to spend 1 billion. kr. to reduce the inheritance tax instead of spending the money on, for example, welfare that we would have preferred in the Social Democratic Party. That is why we also voted against this proposal when it was discussed in this Chamber. So in the Social Democratic Party, we understand that you are very concerned about tax relief in the government. Fortunately, we are glad that the Danes have said time and again when they have been asked that they would rather give priority to good welfare than that they would have the tax relief that the government has tried to implement, but fortunately in a large number of areas they have not succeeded in getting through. But the reason why I am asking about this is precisely the renewed debate on the inheritance tax, where a spokesman for the Liberal Alliance party writes under the following heading: 'Dear State, keep your hands off the cashier's inheritance'. That is why I think it is a little relevant. Finally, the Minister replied to this question as to whether it is misleading. When we look at the numbers that AE has made, we see that it is half of the single deceased who has a net worth of less than DKK 300,000 and the poorest 10%. Leaving debt. That is why it is quite fair if the Liberal Alliance wants to abolish the inheritance tax altogether, but it is also about some form of honesty, in relation to what we are discussing politically, that is to say for all the Danes who are sitting and watching today or who are reading this type of speech. So I guess it's not right to present it as if it's the cashier's legacy, since we can see that, actually quite purposefully, it won't benefit the cashier. Many of the poorest leave behind debt. So that is not only misleading, but would the Minister not also agree with me that it would be quite wrong to do what LA has proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140225	I am well aware of the analysis carried out by the Workers' Association's Employment Council. The Ministry of Taxation does not have any figures that can uniquely link the deceased's assets and the income conditions of the heirs. So I cannot, at the purely factual level, de- or confirm whether the figures from the Labour Movement's Employment Council are correct. In relation to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's speech is, of course, right in saying that today there are ordinary people who pay 15%. in the inheritance tax of money that has been taxed not only one, but many times in the past. Typically, it is the value of a house where a high level of current taxation has also been paid, which is why it is quite fair from a reasonable point of view to propose that something be done about the inheritance tax also for ordinary people. I'd rather have it removed completely, but it's gonna take 3.5 billion. kr., and the government doesn't have that money if we have to prioritise other things as well. But I think you can say that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen writes in his article.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140325	I think that is a little too bad, really. I would call it a false trade description, because one is trying to wrap up some tax relief which primarily benefits those who have large fortunes in advance, so it sounds as if it was something that benefited the cashier. I think that is simply a bad way of discussing politics when we can see from the figures provided by the AE that 10%. of the wealthiest forwards a fortune of about 5 million. kr. But would the Minister not agree, without really knowing AE's figures and the calculations behind them, that removing the inheritance tax would contribute to a greater inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140403	Well, when you don't have any clear figures, it's hard to say, but I can confirm that if you lighten a charge in percent, it's so that the more money you inherit in crowns and ears, the greater is your relief in crowns and ears. That is also the case if we lower the tax on labour, and so it would be if we lowered the VAT rate. The more you buy, the more you save in VAT. That is the case with taxes and duties. They are sometimes measured in kroner and ear, but mostly in percentages. When you lower the percentage, your relief or gain depends on how much you inherit and how much you pay. I can confirm that, as did the Socialist Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140448	Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140449	It was a rather long move, but what I understand from the Minister's answer is that if we do what the Liberal Alliance has proposed, in other words completely remove the tax, it will mean an increase in inequality. If you had to do what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen writes in his headline, namely do something for the cashier, so would it be very obvious for the government to raise the inheritance tax for the most wealthy in return for raising the bottom line, which could, of course, give them the slightest inheritance for their benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140529	Here you go, last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140531	Well, I would also like to discuss this with the Social Democratic Party, but as I understand the tax policy of the Social Democratic Party on the issue of inheritance tax in general, it is in fact felt that no one should be relieved. I may have misunderstood. In any case, we are opposed to facilitating the tax on housing and gifts. However, if the Social Democratic Party is now in favour of looking at this issue, I would like to enter into discussions. But the answer to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, as well as Mrs Lea Wermelin, is that if you want to do something about the inheritance tax, whether it is one thing or another, you have to prioritise it into the other economic space we have, and it is therefore quite expensive to do something about the inheritance tax. 3.5 billion kr. It costs to remove it completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140613	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the tax minister of Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140619	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140621	Does the Minister share the view that the inheritance tax is morally sound because a tax is paid on the value which the inheritor has not created, and does the Minister agree that this is not a matter of greed when a 15% charge is levied in Denmark? in the estate and gift tax of inheritance exceeding approx. 300,000 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140641	Thank you for the question, which follows on from the previous question. I would not use the same language as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen uses in his article, but I have to say that I think he has a point so much. I do not think, as Minister for Taxation, that it is reasonable for us to have such a high inheritance tax. I would think it was wonderful if we could tell people whether they inherit little or much that what they inherit is taxed funds. It has been paid tax on many times, and it should not be taxed. On the other hand, there are many other taxes that I would like to lighten, and I would also like to reduce the tax on labour. In contrast to the inheritance tax, there are clear employment effects here. So, I can follow Mr. Knox's lead. Joachim B. Olsen in his argument. I do not think it can be said that it is greedy of the state, for the sole reason that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament who has decided that we have this source of funding. It would then be the politicians who voted in favour, who would be greedy, and could there not also be a single bourgeois politician among them? But I understand the view that people feel that the inheritance tax is unfair, because it is money that your parents have saved in their house or by creating a business for which they have worked, created a lot of value and paid a lot of tax on • we have a world record in paying taxes in Denmark and then there will be a further inheritance tax of 15%. I understand that a great many Danes are not really reasonable, regardless of what they earn. I wish we could abolish the inheritance tax, but that means 31⁄2 billion. kr., which I do not have to give priority to this area at this point in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140843	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418140845	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the Minister is not getting into the same language as our colleague Joachim B.. Olsen, because it is very violent to say that it should be greedy that we are making a general progressive tax on some of the things that we ourselves have not created and which we also know have a very strong inequality-creating profile. If it is the case that the tax is abolished, then it is the case that some of those who have the greatest fortunes are glorified. It was actually quite interesting, I think, that the Minister also mentioned the Swedish example before, because it is true that they have abolished their inheritance tax, but it was put together in a completely different way. In Sweden, housing value is much more taxed, and I do not hear the Minister say that the Swedish example should be copied. So sometimes there are some intercepts, if you just pick up examples from other countries that you don't get in the answers you give. But the Minister also referred to the fact that it would be worthwhile to work, and if the inheritance tax were abolished, it would actually be the exact opposite of what is animated. In other words, for all those who are wealthy in advance and who inherit large fortunes, it will pay less to work if you just allow the fortune to be concentrated. So will the Minister not confirm that it would be less worthwhile to work if we did as the Liberal Alliance proposes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141013	Thank you. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141015	So, in Norway and Sweden there is no inheritance tax, which is why, as I said, I think it is quite reasonable to have the political point of view, and I myself share this view that it is an unfair tax, an unfair tax, which one would like to abolish. This must then be given priority, along with the other things you wish for, and I think you should also look at where to create growth and employment. But it is also fair to have a political argument for imposing a tax or reducing a tax. I do not agree with the questioner on this premise that one can fully morally defend the fact that we have an inheritance tax. On the other hand, as I said, I will not use the same language as Joachim B. Olsen and say that it is greedy to have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141105	No, it's just not greedy. It is actually quite common practice to have an inheritance tax, as we can see if we look around at the countries mentioned by the Minister, even Sweden. But there are also a large number of other OECD countries which have this tax. If an average consideration is taken, Denmark is, in fact, exactly on an average. Now I do not hear the Minister say that those countries are greedy, but does the Minister think that countries such as Germany or the United States have a quite unreasonable tax system?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141141	I really think that in some areas Denmark can learn from the countries in question, where there is a significantly lower tax burden. I believe that there is only one country with which we are competing, and that is France. Unfortunately, Denmark still has a world record of taxation, so I would like to take inspiration from some of the tax systems, just because people are allowed to keep a little more money. My view is that the inheritance tax is an unfair tax, but it is one we have chosen to have. I would like it to be abolished, but it takes 31⁄2 billion. kr., and therefore it must be included in the priorities with all the other good things we would like to have, including spending a lot of money to ensure better welfare for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141228	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141229	Yes, it is a tax we have chosen to have. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that this is both sensible and reasonable. However, I have seen that the Minister's colleague, the Minister for Finance, has also gone out and expressed a positive opinion on the whole abolition of this inheritance tax, and that does indeed mean that although the Minister is now saying that money will be spent on some other things, both I and others could be interested in asking whether this is something the government has on the drawing board, that is to say that this inheritance tax should be removed altogether. Is that something we can expect during this reign?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141302	Thank you for the question. At any rate, it is no secret what is stated in the government base, namely that the government would like to abolish the residence and gift tax for family-owned companies and increase the possibility of converting a family-owned company into a fund, because the two forms of ownership are involved in maintaining Danish jobs in Denmark, in the view of the government, not because we have something against capital funds in principle, but there may be a short aim in its investment. In fund-owned and family-owned enterprises, a long-term goal is achieved, including: Because the values of family-owned companies are built up over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141343	Thank you. That concludes the question. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party, with a question for the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141353	Here you go for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141356	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister agree that the receipt of inheritance is a work-free profit and should therefore fairly be subject to a tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141407	Thank you for the question. As I have had the opportunity to explain to Mrs Lea Wermelin, I believe that values that have been worked hard for their entire lives and saved up for the next generation must be passed on to the immediate family without having to settle with the Treasury first. So I think it would be both fair and fair that we did not have a tax on inheritance in Denmark, but we do at this stage. That would cost 3.5 billion. kr. to do what has been done in Norway and Sweden, and as a social democratic government did in 2005 - in other words, a social democratic government in Sweden - to abolish the inheritance tax altogether. This should also be the case in Denmark, but, as I said, we must find the money for it, and we must prioritise the relief of the tax against other potential reliefs. It can draw on reasonableness that it is an unfair tax and tax. It can drag down that if you spent the 3.5 billion. kr. elsewhere, it would create more growth and more wealth for our society. So the two things must be held up against each other, but I can easily see the wisdom of doing something about the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141528	Thank you. Now the Minister himself mentions the Swedish example, and it is no secret that there is another tax on property gains, for example, and these are some of the things that I do not hear the Minister suggesting that we change here at home. For it is clear that much of the gain you may also leave behind may come from the properties you have been lucky to buy at the right time. Well, when we in the Social Democratic Party are against changing it and lowering the inheritance tax, it is primarily about the cost of welfare. I actually hear the Minister acknowledge this: the money must be there, otherwise it will be missing somewhere else. And then it's all about how it increases inequality, and I'd like to deal with that a little bit. On this issue of inequality, the Minister also replied to my colleague, Mrs Lea Wermelin, that it was really true that, in isolation, it helps to increase inequality by lowering this tax. We are so against that, but what is a little interesting is that the Minister's fellow Member of Parliament, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Joakim B. Olsen and others have advocated that it should, as it were, benefit special cashiers and warehouse workers, and that is why I would like to know whether the tax minister really believes that this is the argument: that it really is turning socially right and that it is the lowest incomes that make the most of a possible change in the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141651	Thank you. Well, what I've seen, sir. Joakim B. Olsen quoted, or the article that has the title: "Dear State: Keep your hands off the cashier's inheritance," I am in agreement with him. He has not said that the whole relief, if you removed the inheritance tax, would go to cashiers, but he has said that there are cashiers who would benefit from this relief. He is absolutely right about that and, as I said, that would be fair. But you have to find the money. In relation to the Swedish example, I really think that if you go into detail this way, you will see that we in Denmark have some of the highest taxation on housing. It is true that we have a different tax than in Sweden, but as with many other taxes, Denmark is one of the countries that taxes such things as housing hardest. So I'm not buying quite, sir. Jens Joel's argument against doing something about the inheritance tax, because Sweden has a harder tax on housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141744	Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141745	Thank you. So let me go to it more, if you can say so, politically reasonable consideration in this, because we know that there is a relatively large difference between what you leave behind your heirs. According to the Industrial Council of the Workers' Movement, they are 10%. most wealthy those who leave their heirs, for example over 5 million. kr., and about half is below the bottom limit of just under 300,000 kr., which we have talked about before. So there is a clear tendency, one might say, that there are certain groups that leave behind a very large legacy. In this situation, I would like to hear the tax minister's comment that it should be for the cashier's sake that something should be done about this. Is that really the main argument for the government, namely that it benefits the lowest-paid most?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141838	The government does not have a policy of abolishing the inheritance tax. I have been asked about my position on it in principle, and I express it. We have a desire to remove the residence and gift tax for business companies and foundations. In order to take it a step further, I would like to say that I can follow Mr. Joakim B. Olsen in what he says. I would use a few other words, but I can follow him in it, and I think that where you would experience the greatest joy in not having to pay 15%. in inheritance tax, would be with a cashier and people with small incomes, while the importance for people who have large incomes and for what they can do as a result of the smaller tax payment is perhaps less. I have also noted that the Liberal Alliance has said that it could also be looked at with the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141931	Next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418141933	So let us take seriously the government's concern, if you may say so, for the cashier and ask the Minister: if they now said that we should have the same 3.5 billion. kr. But that it was really about helping those who would benefit most from the Minister's statement that we were lowering the inheritance tax and that it would have less impact on those with very large fortunes, would the Minister support that we raised the bottom line and, in return, took the money by taxing harder at the top of the income scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142007	That would be against the government's tax freeze, and it would not make it any more reasonable. If you have an unfair tax, an unreasonable tax, and then you make further progression in it, you don't make it any fairer. You're making it less just. So I don't understand. However, as I said to Mrs Lea Wermelin, I would very much like to discuss the relief of inheritance tax with the Social Democratic Party. I do not think it is going to happen because the policy of the Social Democrats in this area, as in other areas, is that the Danes have to pay more in taxes and not less. I think that is an unfortunate policy which the Social Democrats should think carefully about. And if you come to the conclusion that you want to do something about the inheritance tax and lower it for some, I would like to discuss it heartily and find funding for it along with the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142051	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142059	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142101	What is the Minister's position on the park and ride commuter concept and does the government want to spread this concept to several parts of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142110	Thank you for the question. I think that park and riding is an excellent concept which can be used where, on a sound socio-economic basis, it promotes mobility across public transport and individual traffic. In other words, if the investment is in line with the benefits, I think it is a good idea. With this in mind, we continuously focus on linking transport modes, including promoting accessibility to public transport and creating attractive station areas with the possibility of park and riding. The contract between the State and DSB obliges DSB to continuously implement the so-called parking pool provided for in the agreement on a green transport policy. The pool, designed to ensure better access to the stations, has been used to establish parking spaces at the S-train stations in, among others. Herlev, Ballerup and Farum as well as a wide range of stations on the remote and regional lanes across the country. The most obvious example of a current park and ride project is the upcoming Køge Nord Station, which is built on the new track between Copenhagen and Ringsted. Køge Nord Station is particularly interesting because of the location close to the heavily trafficted Køge Bay Motorway. When the station opens, there will be an opportunity to drive from the motorway, park your car on one of the many parking spaces and take the train on either the S- or the distance track, thereby avoiding the congestion of the motorway towards Copenhagen during rush hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142238	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for detailing what the advantages of this park and riding concept are, namely that you get the transport modes combined in the best possible way and use them where they are best. It may be nice for a child's family to hand in children and shop with a car, but when you have to commute into, for example, a car. Copenhagen or another big city, it is therefore somewhat smarter and associated with less congestion and fewer delays to take public transport. So it makes really good sense. The Minister is also kind enough to repeat what is of pools and opportunities to provide support, and also give a few concrete examples of what has happened. This is very positive, and we in the Social Democratic Group are very pleased about it. But when I look at the subject, it is because we see some unfortunate examples of how to do the opposite of promoting park and riding thinking. A few weeks ago I had the opportunity to ask the Minister a question about Solrød Strand Station. In Solrød Municipality you have chosen to make quite strong restrictions on when to stay at the station, and there are also places where you have to pay to keep, so it becomes less attractive. What you hear from many of the country's commuter representatives around the world is that very many of our train passengers organise themselves in commuter clubs, that they experience that there are actually fewer parking spaces and that the parking spaces that are expensive or associated with a time limit and, moreover, are also associated with quite a lot of trouble. You have to go over longer distances, you risk getting wet with rain and all these things. Does the Minister have an overview of whether there have been fewer or more available parking spaces at these stations? Because it may be that we do some individual prestige projects, but if the general picture is that you shut down and make it difficult and so on, then we do not promote the park and riding concept. Can the Minister tell us anything about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142443	I don't have that overview on my feet. I have an overview of what the state is contributing to, among other things. the parking pool available to DSB. The contribution made by the state could of course be increased, but of course it requires that the parties in the Folketing are as interested in finding money as they are in spending money. It is clear that if all parties contribute to making more money available for infrastructure investment, then a share of that money will also be available to increase the opportunities for establishing socially sound park and riding projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142521	However, I think it is a little awkward, and in a way a little disturbing, that the Minister does not really have this overview. One of the key points in the Minister's own mobility work was the huge increase in congestion and the need to combine modes of transport, and if there is something that is a crucial point in getting people to combine modes of transport, it is that, for example, they are: can park their car at a station. It is a pity, then, that the Minister does not have an overview of whether there have been more or fewer. Well, the former minister, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, did a lot to have a close dialogue with the commuter associations. Doesn't the Minister have contacts like this so that you can get information about how things look with the various stations on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142607	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142609	As recently as a few months ago, I took part in the commuter event, where the commuters could present to me, what challenges they see for train traffic in Denmark and their problems therein, and also what opportunities they see. So I have contact with the commuters. But what is being asked here is something that falls within the competence of local government. So what is decided in Solrød about the parking areas around Solrød Station is part of the municipal autonomy. What I am responsible for is the state resources and the state efforts, and the state efforts can be increased. But it requires that parties here in the Folketing are as willing to find money as they are to spend money, and here Mr. Rasmus Prehn also make an effort in his own party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142656	Here you go for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142657	We would like to help find out if we can give different priorities so that we can promote some parking spaces that makes sense. However, I am also thinking that we could start by not laying down existing parking spaces or linking existing parking spaces with higher payment or with a time limit. It is quite true that much of it is under municipal autonomy, and it is not because I am going to stand here and do away with it, not at all. But we must have an overall interest in making public transport more attractive, and there you can have some kind of dialogue with some of these municipalities, where you try to talk to them about what you can do, so instead of making it more difficult to park, you actually make it attractive to use their city to change, so you can also trade there, etc. After all, there may be a lot of advantages for the municipalities by being a commuter hit point, and this kind of dialogue has an interest in the Minister and the State, so that it will be better for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142755	Thank you, and that is the last reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142757	There are certainly advantages in the availability of parking spaces for commuters near the stations. In the case of Solrød Municipality, I remember that the municipality has considered that the negative consequences of the merchants not being able to park near the shopping centre also weighed into consideration, and I do not think that we here from Christiansborg should just override this kind of local concern. We cannot just say that we know better what needs to be done in Solrød Municipality. You have local democracy, sir. Rasmus Prehn, and you choose local politicians, and they make some decisions for the municipality, and then we should not come here and say that we know better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142835	Thank you for your contributions. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, which is also for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and this time the questioner is Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142845	She has the opportunity to read the question to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142849	Thank you for that, and the question is this: is the Minister planning to shut down the bridge guard on the bridge in Hadsund since cameras have been set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418142858	Thank you for the question. There are no current plans to shut down the bridge guard on the bridge in Hadsund. The cameras at the bridge were installed in 2017, in connection with the Vejdirektoratet's establishment of a new valve and boom management system. The cameras are set up solely for security reasons and have nothing to do with whether the bridge is remotely controlled or operated by a bridge guard. As the questioner is aware, my predecessor decided in the post to abandon the original plans to remotely control all four folding bridges due to local insecurity and security concerns. Instead, it was decided that the Vejdirektoratet will create a 1-year trial scheme on Crown Prince Frederiks's Bro in 2020 when the new Crown Princess Marys's Bro is finished. I support this resolution. Once the experimental scheme has been completed, an evaluation will be carried out to assess whether to proceed with remote control of the other bridges in the initial plan of the Road Directorate. I shall then discuss the matter with the transport rapporteurs on the basis of the evaluation. Of course, we will only proceed with remote control of the other bridges if the trial period has been completed in a satisfactory and safe manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143021	I was just about to say: yes, and if there is a political majority in favour of it, I assume. I guess that's the way it has to be. When I have asked the question, it is because I have received a request from bridge guards asking why the hell are cameras being put up all of a sudden. I have already put a written question to the Minister, namely Question No. 463, where the answer also states: "On the Hadsund Bridge, cameras have been set up for safety reasons in 2017 in connection with the establishment of a system for managing the valve and boom. I was a little puzzled, and then I say: what are the new security reasons that have just suddenly arrived since you have to set up cameras? Of course, this also worries the people who work there because they are afraid of losing their jobs. Of course, that's the way it is. I think the reasons for safety are somewhat uncertain, so I would like to ask that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143110	I don't have any detailed knowledge of how cameras help the security of the bridge. But I can say so much that it has nothing to do with planning to remove the bridge guard and switch to remote control of the folding bridge. It is clear that that is not why you have those cameras there, but it is because for security reasons you think it would be good to have a camera.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143137	Thank you. Well, it's so hard. Because if the Minister does not know just what security reasons are behind the sudden set-up of cameras, then it is difficult to move on. Of course, I could have explained my question a little more, but I also sometimes find it a little boring to stand here. But I just want to ask you about it in writing. I am, of course, only pleased that the Minister confirms that there is an agreement that it is a one-year attempt in 2020 at Crown Prince Frederiks's Bro in Frederikssund, and that is how it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143215	I can fully confirm that, and I can then welcome the fact that Mrs Pia Adelsteen is pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143221	We shall now turn to the questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143223	I was about to say that then I don't think I'll ask so much more, but just say that it's nice such a Wednesday afternoon in high sunshine and very warm to be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143233	Yeah, there's only reason to be happy in this weather.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143236	Thank you both for today's work. Then we turn to questions to the Minister for the Elderly, and the questioner is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143245	She is welcome to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143248	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on Bornholm's latest savings proposal in the area of older people, which has just been sent in consultation and is described in the article • Here are the municipality's 13 savings proposals in the area of older people • at www.tv2bornholm.dk on 7 April 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143313	Thank you to Mrs Adsbøl for her question. This is an important issue to address. In the past, I have answered several questions from the Danish Parliament's Committee on Health and the Elderly on saving proposals in the area of the elderly in the municipality of Bornholm, and my position is the same. For me, proper municipal care for the elderly is characterised by having a focus on dignity and on the individual needs of the individual elderly for help and care. I believe that good and dignified care for the elderly is also based on professionalism and respect for the lives and habits of the individual citizen, and that is the case, whether we are talking about baths or whether in other ways we provide care and care for our elderly. The government parties and the Danish People's Party have in recent years given a significant boost to the area of older people, among others. with an annual dignity billion, and on the 2018 Finance Act we have among other things. □ ECU 5 million in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium scale projects. kr. annual to a boost in the area of the elderly for better staffing in home care and in nursing homes, nursing centres and free care homes. In my view, we have provided the municipalities with a good basis for providing good and dignified care for the elderly based on the needs and wishes of the individual for care. The municipality of Bornholm, like the other municipalities of the country, has been given a share in the many funds which in recent years have gone to a boost in the care of the elderly. After all, the municipality of Bornholm has received a total of 18.4 million. kr. I am also surprised, as the Minister for the Elderly, to see the proposals for savings put forward by the municipality of the region in consultation. As I understand from media coverage, this is a proposal for possible savings. Regardless of what the municipality of the region decides, the municipality has a duty to provide the elderly with assistance that corresponds to their individual needs and resources, because it follows from our legislation and the obligation that the municipality cannot escape.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143521	Thank you for your answer. I am aware of all the good initiatives we have taken on the part of the Danish Parliament and which the Danish People's Party has also contributed to, but I have not seen the Minister be in the press and take a strong stand against this, which is why I am very surprised when there are 13 such savings proposals in the area of older people. Among other things: With the help of washing without water, you save 2.6 million. kr.; baths are reduced from once a week to every two weeks; the ceiling should be noted for mental assistance and support, which will save 1.1 million. kr.; and cutting cards for activities outside the quality standard are abolished. I believe that, as the Minister for the Elderly, we should go out and distance ourselves from this, particularly in view of the fact that there are some who are making a savings proposal with a ceiling, because the setting of a ceiling on some things, I believe, is directly illegal under the Services Act. For how will the Minister ensure that older citizens continue to be given a concrete and individual assessment, including: When you look at Bornholm's newest savings proposals in the area of older people, where you want to set a ceiling on mental help and support? What does that mean? In my world, it is illegal to set a ceiling on something, because then you go beyond what is in the Services Act in relation to the individual assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143653	I personally think it is sad to see what a municipality can do to put forward savings proposals. It is a proposal from the official body, and I would like to say that it is a proposal and that it has not yet been adopted. But it is about the fact that the law says that the individual citizen must have the help he or she needs from the resources he or she needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143721	Now I know that this is a proposal that has been submitted for consultation. And one can tear oneself into the hair when one hears how anyone can even send something in consultation that baths are reduced from once a week to once every two weeks, or that one will set a ceiling on a certain help precisely in order to derogate from the rules of the Service Act. So my question to the Minister is: what will the Minister do if these savings proposals are adopted? It is not only in the municipality of Bornholm, but it may also be in another municipality that you are very creative in relation to this. How will the Minister ensure that we can continue to have good care for the elderly, which can easily be improved in many places?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143804	Well, as a minister, I am responsible for setting up a good framework and setting a course, and I think we have done so in the last three financial laws. We have created dignity policies, and together with the Danish People's Party we have lifted the area of older people and finally here for better staffing. So the fact is that Bornholm just on the last three finance laws has actually got 18.4 million. kr. in the area of the elderly, for better care for the elderly. And that's an amount that comes every year. So I feel like I see this as a savings proposal. I cannot at all understand why it is possible to send it out, but I would like to see how the local politicians, who are now going to be on the target for this, accept it. Now let's see what happens when they have to decide. It's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143901	Then comes the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143903	Well then, I would like to hear something from the Minister, precisely because I understand that the Minister agrees with the Danish People's Party that it is totally unacceptable that baths should be reduced from once a week to once every two weeks. Here it will be precisely the individual needs that are crucial. There will be some who need a bath more often, and they will suffer, just as they will not comply with the rules of the Services Act. But then I would like to hear: has the Minister had contact with the Municipality of Bornholm to make it clear that this is actually unacceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418143940	No, for me this is a proposal from the office over there, and that proposal has not yet been adopted. So I haven't had any contact with Bornholm. Now I think we should wait and see what might come of this. And again, I think it is the local politicians who have to decide on these things. But there should be no doubt at all that I do not think this marks a worthy care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418144005	Thank you both for today's contribution. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418144014	The debate is open and we warmly welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418144043	Let me begin by stating from the outset that there should in no way be any doubt that the government shares the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the SF's desire for a consistent line towards parents who send their child on a re-educational journey. It is no place for parents living and staying in Denmark not to follow the rules and values that we in Denmark live by, but to work directly against their children's integration into Danish society by forcing them on a reeducation journey because they have become too Danish or in other ways do not meet parents' expectations. The government therefore fully agrees with the proposers that it is unacceptable for parents to force their child on a re-educational journey and that it must also have serious consequences for parents when they make such a decision. That is why the government, as an element of parallel society, has also put forward proposals on this very subject. I fully recognise that the objective of B 75, which we are discussing right now, is the same, but the proposal raises a number of issues which make it impossible for the government to support the proposal in its current form. Before going into the issues that we think should be looked at, I would like to draw up the government's proposals. Our proposal is that parents who send their child or children on a re-educational journey which is a serious danger to the health and development of the child should be punishable by up to four years' imprisonment. In other words, the actions of parents must be criminalised. And if such a criminal relationship has been committed by a foreign parent, it must be possible for it to result in expulsion if possible within Denmark's international obligations. And it is a very central point in the government's proposal that the penalty be imposed on both foreign and Danish parents. The motion for a resolution merely involves the withdrawal of parents' residence permits. The proposal will therefore, by its very nature, only affect foreigners who are staying in the country because of a residence permit, but not those who have become or become Danish nationals. However, the study shows that the vast majority of the children and young people who the municipalities are aware of have been or are on a long stay abroad are in fact Danish nationals. A proposal to withdraw the parents' residence permit will therefore by its very nature not affect parents who have Danish citizenship, and at the same time it will mean that foreign parents who send their children on a re-educational journey are treated differently from the parents who have Danish citizenship. As also stated in the motion for a resolution, in 2012 in the context of the examination of motion for a resolution B 18, it was considered that the system for the withdrawal of a parent's residence permit could raise serious issues in relation to the prohibition of discrimination in Article 14 of the Convention on Human Rights. The answer to this is not given only by pointing out that a rule of involvement should only be applied if, after a concrete assessment, the involvement can take place in accordance with Denmark's international obligations. This is because the questions that can be raised concern the rule itself as such and not only the application of the rule. For this reason, the government cannot, at this stage, table a legislative proposal in the form proposed by B 75. Finally, I understand the motion for a resolution that the authors of the motion hope it will help to prevent reeducational journeys, which are, after all, an attack on the child. I share that view one hundred per cent, and the government's proposal will therefore have a primary preventive aim. But I also understand that it is the opinion of the proposers that if the child has already been sent away from Denmark, the whole family should follow. That would mean that when a 12-year-old girl, for example. has been sent on a re-educational trip to Somalia, she has to stay in Somalia, and then parents and her siblings follow because their residence permits are withdrawn. In my optics, however, we have a duty to protect children who are subjected to abuse, and it must be with an initiative that has the greatest possible effect. The focus must be on hitting the parents, but it must also be on protecting the children. Regardless of the legal issues raised by the motion for a resolution, therefore, we must also deal soberly with what measures best guard against parents forcing their children on re-education trips abroad. I therefore believe that the resolution does not have the sufficiently far-reaching consequences for parents that are really needed. In my view, the government's proposals go both further, but it is also a more targeted approach to reeducational journeys than what has been proposed here in the resolution. I have already mentioned the outstanding issues relating to Denmark's international obligations, but at the same time I would like to say that it is absolutely crucial that we tackle these matters. I also recognise that the government's proposals may be extended and thus have a greater impact, and that is why I would like to conclude by saying that the government is prepared to examine whether, in addition to the proposal made by the government in the new parliamentary year, it will be possible to point out other initiatives as a safeguard against reeducational journeys than what is now in place. So it has to be seen as an invitation for us to have this whole area looked through. As I said, I believe that the government's proposals are sharper than what is here, but if we can combine things, I think that this is an essential and good thing, because the objective is common, and that is that we should not send our child on a re-educational journey.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418144822	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418144828	Thank you. Of course, I think it is good that the government has also come into play. Our proposal, as the Minister rightly says, is that if the child is sent out and you take the child's residence permit from the way it is, the rules are today, you also have to assess whether you can take the parents' residence permit from them, and then the family has to leave the country. Not surprisingly, we in the Danish People's Party think that this is a good proposal. But does the Minister not agree that it must be better to be able to expel those who can be expelled or to send those who can be sent out immediately? It must be preferable, rather than going to prison, for a few years, that we should pay for it and that they might be sent out at some point. Is it best not to send out those who can actually be sent out? Then, of course, you can punish those you can't send out with prison. Isn't that the best solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418144921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418144922	In other words, the problem is, as I am reading this proposal now, that of those, such as the one we are discussing here. has a Danish citizenship, of course gets a huge discount here. There's not much going on with them. I know that about three quarters of the cases in which children have been sent on reeducational journeys are about people we cannot send out of the country. I think that is obviously a huge weakness in the proposal we are discussing here today. But that is not to say that there are not some things we can look at in relation to perhaps combining the two proposals. Because I agree that if you have committed something like this, it would be appropriate to send these parents out, but I do not think we should punish the children. I think there should be an opportunity for these girls, for example. will be able to return home. I do not think that we should double punish a Somali girl who has become too Danish, if we may say so, by sending her first on a reeducational journey, and then we cannot help her back to Denmark. I will punish the parents, but in return I will punish the parents severely, and I think that we should do this by putting them first in prison, and those who are not Danish citizens will then be able to be expelled from the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145044	But today, as I remember it, I can be wrong, but we can check that in some cases a child can come back to Denmark. So that is possible today. However, if the three-month rule is completely removed, which I understand the Minister is calling for, I would say that it is a weakening of the current rules. For then part of the consequences will also be removed, namely the one about parents seeing that it has a clear consequence if you send your child away, which must then stop them from sending the child. So I would advise against that, and I think that is a weakening of the current rules. But I really think the Minister still owes it to him to answer the question. For it is quite fine with the Danish People's Party that we put them in prison, which we cannot expel, but does not agree that in those cases where we can expel where we can send out, it is better to send them out immediately than that we put them first in prison and have to pay for their stay there, etc.? Why don't you let them get out of here right away? After all, they have made a decision that their children have become too Danish. Their family is not part of society and does not want to be part of society, so let the whole family go out immediately, and in cases where we cannot, because they are citizens, we can then put them in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145147	But that is not exactly what is in this proposal today. Because there's the fact that those who can be sent out have to be sent out, and that the rest gets a huge discount on this, and that's what I think is so wrong about this proposal. Because we are in a situation in which three-quarters of me are actually Danish citizens and therefore cannot be sent out, and we have to deal with that. As I see this proposal, it would not be appropriate to adopt it as it stands here. On the contrary, I think we should get together and try to see if we can combine things. Because our objective is exactly the same, and that is that we do not want reeducational journeys to take place as is happening now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145232	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145235	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. In my view, what matters is not, nor is it for the SF that it is the proposal, as it stands, the letter-by-letter, that is adopted. The crucial thing for us is to help these children who are being sent on reeducational trips today, and there I just find that one has been rather sluggish in the cover for a number of years when it comes to getting legislation like this done here. Now the Minister is saying that it is because there are some questions about this proposal as it stands that one should wait, and the Minister also says that one would like to look at further initiatives. So can the Minister explain what the process towards the next proposal, which then comes from the government, will now be? Will negotiations be convened to look at further initiatives? And when can we expect something to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145320	Well, if sir... Jacob Mark had read the government's proposal on parallel societies, and Mr. After all, Jacob Mark is fully aware that the government is putting forward a bill in the new session. So I don't quite understand why, sir. Jacob Mark says what he does. Because it is quite clear that we are making a proposal that criminalises this particular area and that makes it possible to punish parents. Those who are not Danish citizens will ultimately be able to be sent out of the country, and those who are Danish citizens will be given a prison sentence if they are sentenced to it. Because we can't see these young girls and young boys being sent on reeducational trips. But it all depends on what happens here in the Folketing, what the future process in this is. I can say that I myself was a little surprised that exactly the Socialist People's Party wants children just to be sent to Somalia on the heels of their parents, rather than protecting children here in Denmark. I think that would suit the Socialist People's Party too if they meant it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145436	I think it is a good part of the government's proposal to change that part of the legislation. I believe, however, that many parents will stop sending their children to re-education altogether if they threaten to withdraw the residence permit from them, so we will support the government in that and I think it is an excellent initiative. Now that does not mean that it always comes to the Chamber when the government proposes it. Right now, many of the government's initiatives are falling apart, so I just want to make sure that this actually happens. Then the Minister said that, like that, further initiatives will be looked at. There is just what I want to hear: is there going to be a debate on this? Because I think there are further initiatives that can be taken, but that requires that we sort of sit together, as the Minister calls on us to do. So when could it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145515	Now I just say in all silence that the Socialist People's Party itself is co-authors of this and that in the very last sentence of the proposal itself says: "But the child has already been sent away from Denmark, the whole family should follow. That means sending an 8-year-old child to Somalia, which has nothing to do with it. Well, I'm just a little surprised that it's just SF's attitude to this. It's fine if it is, but then I just think that you should stand up for it and not stand here today and say: No, but we may not quite mean it anyway. Now we see how the further process is going to be. However, I can at least note that there is a relatively large and broad support in the Folketing to do something in this area, which is why I can only announce that the government is making a proposal, but that I would like to see us somehow combine the proposals that lie there, namely B 75 and then the proposal that the government is making, which is already described in the proposal we made, on parallel societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145616	Thank you, Minister. Welcome to sir. Mattias Tesfaye, draftsman of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145625	Thank you. A few weeks ago, a young Danish guy was sitting in my office. His family was immigrated from Pakistan. During his teenage years, he has been left with relatives in Pakistan three times. They believe that he has become too Danish and that he should be brought up differently. Parents are particularly dissatisfied with his homosexuality, and they believe that if he reads the Koran enough times in a Pakistani provincial town, his sexuality will change. His assessment was also that the parents did not really see these reeducational journeys as particularly controversial, almost on the contrary. Of course, it seems completely crazy, but for this young guy it was also very serious. He experienced the stays as a prison stay, and he does not really have a problem with being a young Muslim homosexual Dane. Social democracy, like the majority in the Folketing, is of course on his side in this discussion. Although most immigrants and descendants are doing very well in Danish society, unfortunately there is a widespread reluctance that the children should stay for Danish, with a minority of immigrants and refugees who have arrived in Denmark over the last few decades. Recently, the Ankestyrelsen published a report showing surprisingly many reeducational trips. I think it said that in Copenhagen alone, 580 have been registered since January 2015. I agree that the inventory in the City of Copenhagen is slightly different from that in the rest of the country, but it is still quite surprisingly large figures, at least for me. Since then I have been in discussion with several experts, people who work with this, and they really consider that both the numbers of the Ankestyrelsen and the City of Copenhagen are greatly underestimated. To take action against these attacks on children is therefore absolutely necessary. And with this motion for a resolution, we and the Danish People's Party propose that parents should be able to lose their right of residence if they commit such an attack on a child. The proposal instructs the government to draw up a concrete proposal for amendments to the legislation. We are convinced that such a proposal could help to reduce the number of reeducation journeys. Losing your residence permit is so serious that rumors will spread quickly in the relevant environments and thus protect children. We have also noted that the government has already announced that they will come forward with a similar proposal in the autumn, and this must then form the basis for joint cooperation to deal with this. I also noticed in the Minister's speech that there is an invitation on the way to us, and we look forward to that, of course, and we would like to say yes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145919	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's from sir. Marcus Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145926	Thank you very much. As I understood the rapporteur, the rapporteur described a situation in which a minor with Pakistani roots had been sent back to Pakistan to learn that homosexuality was wrong. Does the rapporteur think that if this happened, the penalty for this minor would be that the parents and the whole family were also sent to Pakistan and that they could then stay there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418145950	Not necessarily. That is why I say in my rapporteur's speech: in the extreme. Because we need to be able to make a lot of reservations. For example: is just the first reservation, of course, whether his parents are here on an ordinary residence permit or whether they are also Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150011	Does the rapporteur agree with the wording of the text here, on which the Social Democratic Party co-signs: "But if the child has already been sent away from Denmark, should the whole family follow? It is a relatively simple yes or no question. Does the rapporteur agree with the text signed by the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150029	I also noticed that that discussion was there just before, and I was just looking into my old papers, because I remember that back in 2012, when I was in the Folketing, we had the legislation changed on the basis of a specific case with a student from Ørestad Gymnasium. In this connection, Section 9 of the Aliens Act was written to place particular emphasis on the child's upbringing and family and social networks in this country. And in the paragraph, the best interests of the child are also mentioned. Of course, I think it is essential to stress the social and family ties of the child with Denmark. We are also hearing what the Minister is saying, and we are, in fact, in agreement with the emphasis being placed on the children who have become too Danish and who are being sent to Pakistan or Somalia. The woman I mentioned earlier was sent when she was 17 years old and only returned when she was 25 years old, and then she was refused a new residence permit in Denmark. Of course, that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150135	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150138	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. It is quite true that in 2012 we discussed both similar cases, but also a similar proposal, which was then put forward by the Danish People's Party. Back in 2012, it was Mr. Morten Bødskov, who was Minister of Justice, and he said at the time, with the whole apparatus of the Ministry of Justice in his back, that in the vast majority of cases it would be disproportionately to take the residence permit from the parents. This proposal then says that it will only be done if it is not contrary to the conventions. Are we not just risking that this proposal is really just a blow to the air and that it really is not going to have any real significance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150224	Thank you for the question. I do not know how many will be covered by it, but I think the questioner is right that it will not be all, and I think that also former Minister of Justice, Mr. Morten Bødskov was right about that. That is why we are also listening to some of what the Foreign Minister is saying here, namely that there is also the possibility of saying that it is being made punishable for everyone, that is to say also for Danish citizens and also for foreigners with a residence permit in Denmark, but where it would be unfair to send them out. We are very interested to discuss this, because we are interested in all parents being met by a sanction and not just those where it would be proportionate to send them out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150308	I just have a follow-up question: does the Social Democrats think that the only thing that parents who send their children on a re-educational journey should meet is sanctions? Isn't there other things they need to meet with, or other measures you can take? The questioner might sense that I'm thinking that this is such a rather empty proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150327	Yeah, I can tell. But I believe that Enhedslisten must be careful not to underestimate the importance of losing your residence permit if you send your child on a re-educational journey. That is something people can understand, because if there is one thing they have very dear, then it is their stay in Denmark. Unfortunately, I think that there are many parents running around thinking that this is not really seen as very controversial by Danish society. If since January 2015 the City of Copenhagen has only registered 580 cases, it can not only be villains. Then I think it is also an expression of the fact that many parents see this as a completely normal and integral part of raising children in Denmark, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150415	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. The reason why the Danish People's Party does not now have the floor is that Mr. Martin Henriksen is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution and will therefore be given the floor at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150440	Thank you, President. This motion for a resolution comes to my mind at a very, very strange time. It is not long ago that the government presented a ghetto plan, which among other things. will take hard action against reeducational journeys. In addition, a broad majority at least broadly supports our ghetto plan, and this also applies to countering reeducation journeys. That is why I think it is a little funny to have this debate now, when we know, as a matter of fact, that we agree on the objective. In the government, we believe that it is a good idea to put an end to reeducational journeys. We do this because children are often sent on these trips by their parents because they have become too Danish. It's completely abnormal to me. We in the government are fighting precisely for foreigners living in Denmark to acquire Danish values so that they can live a well-functioning life here in Denmark and contribute to Danish society. We know that it is absolutely crucial to put in place early and ensure good integration from childhood onwards. That is why I very much share the ambition to stop reeducational journeys. For this reason, I am also looking forward to implementing the paragraph on criminalisation of reeducational journeys in the government's ghetto plan, which, of course, I know the proposers are familiar with and broadly support. In the paragraph of the ghetto plan, we are both, as the Minister said, more far-reaching and concrete in terms of how we are to combat reeducational journeys. As the Minister said, a large majority of those who are sent on reeducation trips already have Danish citizenship, and therefore the proposal here is not the most appropriate. We are, on the other hand, proposing, among other things: a penalty of up to four years in prison if you send your children on a re-educational journey, and that will therefore also have an impact on, for example. those who have permanent residence permits and those who are not Danish nationals. That is why we support the forthcoming legislative proposal that we are putting forward on combating reeducational journeys, and we do not support this resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150650	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150655	Thank you. For the sake of good order: I do not think anyone would mind that in cases where people cannot be sent out, they should be punished and put in prison. Very good. But is Mr. Marcus Knuth doesn't agree that in those cases where we can send the family out right away, should we do it? Is Mr. Marcus Knuth does not agree with it, or is it such a fundamental view of the Left that we must pay for them to be in a Danish prison, which sometimes, if you look at the conditions that are in the countries from which they come, may offer such a fair relationship? Is it really such a cardinal point for the Left that we must make sure that we pay for them to be in prison for a few years before we see, perhaps, send them out at some point? Wouldn't it be better for the Danish authorities to just say, if it is the case that they have made the decision that their child should go on a re-educational journey: we can do that quite quickly; we take your residence permit, then you can go with your children out of the country, because you don't want to live a life in Danish culture and in Danish society etc.? Isn't that preferable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150754	The priority for the Left is that children should not be sent on reeducational journeys at all, and that is where we should have looked at what is the most effective instrument. If it is the case that a majority of them already have Danish citizenship in the statistics, then the proposal as it stands here is not the most effective. And for those who would then be affected by the punishment that we would like to propose, namely up to 4 years in prison, it would also have an impact on their stay in Denmark. So I believe that our proposal has a much, much broader and much more appropriate effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150823	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150825	But like the minister, Mr. Marcus Knuth is not on my question, and that's fair enough. Now, sir. Marcus Knuth saw one more comment, and then you can also stop answering that, and then I have no more chance of coming back. That's the way it is. But that is why I would like to call on Mr Seligman to do so. Marcus Knuth to consider, if not, sir. Marcus Knuth will answer the question, which in all its simplicity is: The best thing is to combine the two proposals, it is the most effective. If you combine the two proposals, it will be the case that if we can send the family out immediately, we will. Is it not preferable to have them in a Danish prison for a number of years and then pay for them sitting there, rather than for the Danish taxpayers to pay for it? Let us then have a quick process so that the public sector can also become more efficient and then we send them out immediately. Is it not preferable in those cases where this can be done and in those cases where it is not possible to do so, we can give them a penalty so that they go to prison in Denmark? Isn't that the best solution, sir? Marcus Knuth?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150918	I do not think it is to answer more directly. I'm sorry if I wasn't direct enough before. So there may be cases where this is not the best solution. In the text of the proposal, the rapporteur himself proposes that this should apply in all cases. I understand from the Social Democrats that they do not seem to mean that anyway. In all cases, when the child first sits in e.g. Somalia, then the whole family must be sent without exception, and I do not think that is necessarily a good idea. There is also something called the best interests of the child, and I believe that there is a risk of punishing the child unnecessarily. We believe that the parents should be punished as hard as possible for this, and that is one of them. criminalisation, up to 4 years in prison. And if that is appropriate, then of course you also have to look at the residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418150956	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth, and welcome to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418151004	When parents in Denmark choose to send their children for long periods abroad to counteract the influence of Danish education, Danish friends and Danish culture in a broad sense, this is a serious problem. I am not talking here about a few weeks of summer holidays in Pakistan or Turkey, but about long-term stays where children miss important learning in school in Denmark and may even be forced into Koran school or something like that in the family homeland. Here we believe in Enhedslisten that Danish authorities have a great responsibility to take action. The school and other public authority representatives shall keep a close eye on signs that a child is about to be forced onto a journey which is not in the child's interest. And all children should know that they can safely approach their class teacher, their club teacher or other adults they trust if they have a fear that parents or others in the family plan to send them on a journey that they do not want to go on. In cases where one spouse is under social pressure and control from the other spouse or from other family members in relation to sending a child on a re-educational journey, the authorities must be ready to listen, advise and intervene if the spouse is seeking help. And when suspicion arises, the authorities must respond quickly and, if necessary, involve the police and ensure that conversations with the child are conducted in a confidence-building framework outside parental control, so that the school and the social authorities or the police can get to the bottom of whether there is reason to fear a return journey or whether it is just a short and ordinary summer holiday. It is essential to prevent and prevent reeducational journeys. For if the child is only out of the country, it may be difficult for Danish authorities to do something, even though there are good examples of children returning to Denmark after being sent on a reeducation journey and despite the parents' opposition, they are fighting for the place in the Danish society to which they want and are entitled. The proposal before us today is closely linked to an earlier proposal from the Danish People's Party. The proposal we are discussing today, where the Danish People's Party has received the Social Democratic and Socialist People's Party as co-sponsors in a new and exciting constellation, says that the inclusion of parents' residence permits should only take place if it can be done in accordance with Denmark's international obligations. Most of the time, it can't. We know this from the debate in 2012, when the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Morten Bødskov from the Social Democratic Party among others. with reference to the international conventions, explained why the SRSF government could not support the then proposal of the Danish People's Party, B 18. The current proposal is justified on the grounds of the poor children who are forced on re-educational journeys. But if you really care about the child, does it seem to involve the parents'residence permit? Is it based on the child's best interests? No, we don't think it does in the Enhedslisten. After all, the children have the residence permit by virtue of their parents' residence permit, and if you take the residence permit from the parents, you not only cut off a child sent on a re-educational journey from your parents, but also from returning to Denmark. In the Enhedslisten, we would very much like to help strengthen both efforts to prevent and prevent reeducational journeys and the work to track down children sent off to give them a way back to Denmark. But we do not want to take the residence permit from anyone, either parents or children. As you may have guessed, in the Enhedslisten we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418151401	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund and welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418151408	The proposers want to include residence permits for foreigners who send their children on re-educational trips. I think most people can agree to the goal, because you send your children back to a home country, in fear that they have become too Danish, you have clearly demonstrated that you do not belong in Denmark. Today we can only withdraw the residence permit for the child who has been on a re-educational journey, and it is, of course, an unsatisfactory legal situation to punish the victim alone and not the perpetrator. It makes intuitively good sense that it is the parents who have to be punished for this, but the problem arises a little in the way that the Aliens Act has implemented the possibility of including the residence permit in these cases, because the real punishment is not for the re-education journey, but for stays abroad, which last over 3 months, and which interfere with the teaching or integration of the minor. So we are not punishing what is going on abroad, but what is, so to speak, not going on at home. This may be done because it is not easy to define legally what a reeducation journey is and then a much easier solution has been chosen where the offence is much easier to detect. But if you want to punish the parents for the fact that the child has had too long a stay abroad, which has disrupted school, then you get into some Convention difficulties. I understand that this is a problem, but I would say that in this case it actually allows us to make much better legislation than we have today, because we should have heard a number of terrible stories from these journeys and, of course, it must be punished by prison. In relation to the part about the withdrawal of residence permits, the policy of the Liberal Alliance is that a very small tolerance should be given to foreigners who commit offences in Denmark. If you are not a Danish citizen, the general rule should be that you are deported when you are convicted of a criminal offence. In our view, then, we should strive to criminalise this kind of crazy behaviour and then constantly work for stricter practices in relation to expulsion. As you know, we have a number of challenges with the courts, but that is also being worked on. So we do not support the proposal in question, because we believe that the consequence should be imprisonment if we help to organise violations of children's rights, even if they take place for less than three months over the summer holidays of schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418151705	Thank you, Mrs Lindahl, and warmly welcome to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418151714	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate on reeducational trips, because this is a really, really important debate. There came, among other things. a report which gave some figures on how many people are supposed to be sent on a re-educational journey, but before I come back to that report, I would say that it is absolutely essential that children should not be sent to the country of origin against their will. It is absolutely crucial because it is essential for the child's best interests that they are not forced to do something they do not want to do, and so I can say straight away that the proposal that lies here, which will include the residence permit for both adults and the child, will not be supported. The alternative is quite clearly against this, and we are, because we simply do not believe that it is in the best interests of the child that this child is in danger of having his residence permit withdrawn because, contrary to his will, he has been returned to something that must be absolutely terrible. There are several stories that describe these experiences, about children being sent back and being held in captivity. Now I have gone through some of the press material, i.e. articles, and from them it appears that a 14-year-old girl who lives in Denmark and has Lebanese parents in spring 2016 tells her schoolteacher that she does not want to go on summer vacation with the family in Lebanon. The school then talks to the girl's parents, and they say they're just going on vacation, and the school shouldn't be worried about that at all. Then it happens that the girl unfortunately does not return after school summer holidays, and then you find out that she is still in Lebanon. We have to be able to do that. Then I noted in the Minister's speech in connection with the parallel society initiative that it is proposed to criminalise these parents who send their children on a re-education journey, but at the same time the provision that the child's residence permit may be withdrawn after three months' stay abroad, and I think that is very, very positive. I think it is right, very positive, that the government will remove it, that it will be possible to remove the child's residence permit. When we come to the government's proposal and there I very much hope the SF's rapporteur also asked that we, as parties, be involved, because one thing is the punishment, and now we have not seen the play out, but to make a separate penalty provision on this in order to make it apparent that it is illegal, I actually think that the alternative may well be able to back up. What is most important, however, is prevention, and when you read all the cases that have taken place, one of the things that are consistently pointed out is that it is incredibly important that the professional staff, i.e. the primary school teachers, all the football trainers, all the adults with whom the child has contact, are able to handle this and be able to involve the parents and ensure that the child is not sent back. It takes an overall effort, including with the parents, so that when you pay attention to these matters, you can have a dialogue with the parents and make sure that this does not happen. This is one of the things that we have also supported in SIRI, the Danish Agency for International Recruitment and Integration, which has made some of these educational packages which precisely qualify the professional work. So that will be some of the things that we will of course place emphasis on when the government comes forward with its legislative proposal. Then I think many numbers are given from up here. There are 204 cases in this report, but there is no evidence that they are reeducational journeys. Then there are 130 cases where it can be said that it has negative consequences, but it does not necessarily have negative consequences in relation to the more religious. It is, among other things, that they are lagging behind in school and so on, and that is bad enough, I think, but in fact there are only 21 cases in 9 municipalities where it is absolutely certain that it is against the child's will. Regardless of these figures, it is an extremely important agenda that we are not in any way in danger of sending children on vacation or re-education, or what we should call it travel, which has negative consequences, etc. for the child. When we then have to debate the government's proposals in relation to the punishment, it is that several lawyers ask what a reeducation journey really is. It takes extremely much to prove it, because it can be a family visit, and it has to be proved beyond doubt that it is a reeducation journey, and that is again why we are also saying: prevention, prevention, prevention; involvement in families, so that this is not happening at all. And if that happens, and I think that's one of the things the government should address, it's about arming the embassies out in the countries to make sure these kids get home quickly if they get in touch with the kids. So we are voting against this resolution, but we are very much looking forward to seeing the government's proposals, because there are some good tactics in it, and then we hope to be invited to discuss it, because some of what we, as I said, think is important is also included in such a proposal is prevention so that it never happens, and there we know that involving parents at an early stage helps. So these should be my words on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418152346	Thank you. And welcome to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418152355	I think that many good words have been said, including by the alternative rapporteur here. We in the Radical Left are also opposed to this proposal, but I think we are broadly in complete agreement on that. It is totally unacceptable to send your child on a reeducational journey and to deprive your child of the opportunity to be part of the society in which you have put it. That is totally, totally unacceptable. What's the point here is we're helping these kids. And I hear the invitation from the minister to look through the whole area. I really think that is sensible and worthy of all honour. I find it difficult to find professionals who believe that withdrawing the residence permit alone solves the problem, and I hope that is what we are here for. But I feel like the former rapporteur. I believe that we can take part in very large parts and hopefully the entire government's proposals in this area, especially if we could supplement some of the things that professionals say will also work, namely to allow these young people, whom this is very often about, to report confidentially to authorities, educators, teachers and the municipality. Today, the municipalities have an obligation to report and have to tell the parents, and that is one of the obstacles to it. In the same way, unfortunately, according to many professionals, this proposal will mean that far, far fewer young people will report on the problems and the risk they are in to be sent on such an unacceptable journey away from their daily lives. Another proposal, which is, of course, also controversial, is the possibility that young people themselves may voluntarily retain their passports or that they may be deprived of the passport in situations where there is a clear and reported risk, so that it will be impossible to carry out such a re-education journey. In any case, we would very, very much like to take a look at how we really solve the problem, and we look forward to the government, hopefully and if possible, inviting a little wider. We are very open to this. But we cannot support this proposal alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418152657	Thank you very much to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and welcome to Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418152702	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good debate, where I hear that all parties are actually prepared both to focus more attention on and more efforts against these reeducational journeys. For me, the whole debate on reeducation trips starts at a much earlier stage than this motion for a resolution, namely with a story about a boy named Ahmed, who is growing up in a vulnerable residential area, one of those discussed in the context of the parallel society package right now. Ahmed then comes to a small village school in a small town where he comes in as the only immigrant boy at a school with 120 children, where otherwise there are only children who are really white in their skin and have white hair and look like such children who have never had any pain in their lives. Then Ahmed comes in. I think this is something the municipality has decided. At first Ahmed is treated as if he were something completely unnatural, for the children have almost never seen anything like it: "There comes a boy who looks different than us." Ahmed was such a very intense, he was a little a problem child and had been for a long time, and that was also why he had been moved out there. He had such wild eyes that glowed with life, but he also caused a lot of trouble. At one point he starts running out at that school with some boys in the sixth grade, who are very, very quiet and quiet, who have grown up in that small village community, who love to play football and play computer games, and what else you do. At one point Ahmed stops running with the boys down from the parallel community... that exposed residential area where there is a lot of trouble... and instead he spends all his time in the small village, and it goes really well at the school he goes to until he disappears one day. Then we won't see him again until after three years, when we meet him at a town party in Køge. He has lost all joy in his eyes, he is a completely different person: he has been sent on a reeducational journey. We did not understand why he went away; the municipality did not explain anything; the school did not know where he was; no one did anything. And the eyes that had previously beamed with life suddenly didn't shine at all anymore. Today he's a criminal. Already at that time, I decided that I would never look at this with a mild eye. It was absolutely crazy to allow it, but at that time I did not know very much about politics. When I came into the Folketing and could see that this trend was not decreasing, it was not the case that fewer children were sent on a re-educational journey; it was certainly not the case that the problem was gone; on the contrary, I thought that now we have to do something about it. In 2016, Etnisk Young received an anonymous counselling service • very many inquiries. That was among other things. inquiries from girls who had been sent to Koran schools in Somalia and Iraq, where they got beaten and were put to do hard physical work. That year alone, in 2016, Ethnic Young received 100 requests for reeducational trips, and it was a new record. 18 of them came directly from young people who were held abroad by their own families. So you can create a lot of palaves around this: Who says what, and when is what done? But what we kind of decided on in the SF, when we saw the numbers, was that we wanted to do something about that. Shortly thereafter, together with S, we presented a common package against reeducational trips. One of the tools was to remove the residence permit from the parents because we believe it can work preventively. I find it very difficult to see those parents who know they're losing their residence permit, sending their children away. However, our package also provided better training to equip professionals to spot young people. That was one of the things that was missing from the school I went to. It could also be to strengthen airport staff when it comes to spotting young people. We would also like to examine whether children's passports can be used to a greater extent if they are suspected of being sent on a re-educational journey. In general, we would like to get some more solid figures on how big a problem this is. Then we decided to put it in the Chamber to put pressure on the government to do something. Because now you've been talking about this for a very long time, but nothing really happened. That is also why I can say calmly that I do not believe that the proposal here is necessarily perfect. In fact, I think that many of the trends in the government's proposals are sharper. This is also typical when it comes from a government that has an office behind it. What is important to me is that something is being done now. That is why the proposal is in this Chamber, and I am therefore delighted that it appears that it is actually becoming a reality. We look forward to the debates that will be held in the autumn, where we can extend the palette of tools against reeducational journeys, because it should not happen to any young person that it is sent on a reeducational journey, just as it is happening today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153213	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153218	Thank you very much. May I ask the rapporteur whether, before he went to the platform or before today's debate, the rapporteur has read all the comments on the proposal, and whether the rapporteur therefore of course agrees with the whole text here, including the last line: 'But if the child has already been sent away from Denmark, the whole family should follow.'
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153244	Yes, I am aware of that, and it is the case that the best interests of the child are always above everything else when social workers have to assess a case. So I'm not so worried about that formula, because if there are children left in that family, it wouldn't be in the best interests of the child to be sent down to, for example. Somalia, or wherever it may be. What this proposal will mean is that children will not be sent on reeducation trips in the future. This will certainly mean that significantly fewer people will be sent on reeducation trips in the future because parents do not dare to put their own residence permit at risk. In fact, I think that this is a very good thing in the government's proposal that children should not be allowed to have their residence permit. I didn't think we could get a majority for that, to put it plainly. And it wasn't SF that introduced that rule. That is why I think it is a little hypocritical to hear the bourgeois today look it up as if they are the great saviors of the children. It was the bourgeois themselves who introduced the rule without punishing the parents when they made the rule. I think it is excellent that we now want to criminalise reeducational journeys. I think it is good that it is also said that it is the best interests of the children that come first, but it is also in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153346	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153347	Well, in the sentence that is here, there is nothing about the child's best interests, and I really wonder if SF is in favour that if the child has already been sent away from Denmark, the child should be punished by the whole family being the ship on the next flight afterwards. It makes absolutely no sense, and that is not in keeping with what the rapporteur says about the best interests of the child. Can the rapporteur not see why we are wondering about this? Is it really the attitude of the child, without making all sorts of outside talk about the child's best interests and international obligations, that if the child is first sent away, the parents should also be sent as an automatic reaction?
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153423	In other words, it is the case when you make legislation that the child's best interests are above all else, and when we have even written in clearly and clearly, and this was not stated in the previous B proposal that you have to live up to your international obligations, it is even clearer that you have to look after the child's best interests. But the answer is yes. Today, because of the bourgeois majority, if a child is sent on a re-educational journey, the child loses the residence permit. There we would like to send the bell-clear signal that if the parents send the child, then the parents have to go with them. I don't want the parents to be protected in this game. I think it is an improvement on the proposal that the government is now going to reverse it, but do not dive into such a specific sentence. We want the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153502	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153504	Thank you. Well, I also wonder where the child's best interests are in this proposal and, as we have mentioned earlier today, we had a similar debate in 2012. At that time it was Mrs Anne Baastrup who was the SF's rapporteur, and I would just like to quote a little of what she said in the debate, when it was then the Danish People's Party that had only put forward the proposal: what the Danish People's Party is bringing in here is a scrambled attempt to punish a little more. But is that what's moving something? Is it not at the heart of the Danish People's Party simply to remove some people who have a residence permit in this country; is that not the reason behind this proposal? Because where is the concern for the child in this proposal? Now perhaps I would like to pass on Mrs. Anne Baastrup's question to Mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153556	But I think it is simply an error of assessment. In other words, criminalising reeducational journeys, as the government is proposing, or saying clearly to parents that if they send their children on re-education trips, they risk losing the residence permit, is to care for the child's best interests. It is to prevent children from being sent out in the future, and I also hope, when the government comes up with its proposal, that Enhedslisten will be in on it. Because I think it will actually prevent reeducational journeys in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153626	It's just that there's a lot of focus on the parents here anyway. I very much agree that we must prevent these reeducational journeys. But wouldn't we do much better by ensuring that Danish authorities, both in Denmark, but also at the embassies abroad, can help these children and know that it's safe and nice places for these children to come and tell us what is happening, where the authorities will then have an opportunity to intervene? Sir. Jacob Mark says it himself in his answer: this is about the parents, not about the children. We really miss the child's best interests in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153702	But I don't think it's a either-or. Well, I understand that Enhedslisten focuses on it because it's easier, but for me it's not a either-or. We can both criminalise re-educational trips, we can say that parents who send their children on a re-educational journey break so much with Danish values that they should not have Danish stays and, at the same time, equip the professional staff in schools better and equip airport staff better and give the authorities better opportunities, and that is also what the minister is invited to discuss today. So for me, it's not a either or. However, if the rapporteur asks me whether I think it is working to tell the parents that they risk losing the residence permit if they send their child away, I would say that I believe in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153741	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark, and welcome to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418153756	Thank you. Each year, parents send at least 100 young people with non-western backgrounds on longer stays, most often in their native countries, because the young people have become too Danish. This shows a survey of the so-called reeducational trips made by the Ankestyrelsen, and we even got it fleshed out when TV 2 last year showed a documentary called the missing girls, who among other things. follow the high school student Jasmin Osman from Vejle, who flees a Koran school in northern Somalia. Here she tells how she was lured there by her parents, both with coercion and threats. In other words, this phenomenon must stop and it must have consequences. This must have consequences for parents, and that is why we agree with the proposers of the intention, in principle, that something should be done in this area, and that is actually what the government's plan for parallel societies shows. It is clear that parents' actions must be criminalised and punished by up to four years in prison and, if parents do not have citizenship, they must be able to be expelled. Why can we not support this motion for a resolution as it has been formulated? We cannot do that because it involves a few problems. Firstly, the resolution will only affect those parents who have a residence permit, and not those with citizenship. It turns out that in most cases of reeducational travel, parents have citizenship, and this is not the case in the motion for a resolution. That is why there can be discrimination here. Another problem is that, if the resolution is adopted, you will punish the girl whom you want to help often girls, but there are also examples of boys, i.e. if you implement what says that the whole family must be deported. We want to hit the parents and not the young, the victims. We must also have a better chance of including the child's passport if there is reason to believe that the child is being sent on a re-educational journey. Last but most importantly, we want to remove the provision that the child's residence permit may be withdrawn after 3 months' stay abroad. Indeed, a clear signal must be sent to parents that it is the parents who must be punished, not the child. That is why our call to the proposers is: let us wait until the final bill comes from the government, as we believe that the proposal for the withdrawal of residence permits cannot stand alone. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418154105	Thank you so much. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418154116	Thank you for the floor. After all, in the Danish People's Party, we think that the Minister has been quite a long time to respond to the problems that exist with reeducational journeys, and now a majority outside the government has put forward a proposal. Then the government comes up with a number of initiatives, and that is, in fact, a good thing, at least as far as the initiatives that we support from the Danish People's Party are concerned. However, the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to have a legal basis in the Aliens Act to withdraw the residence permit from resident custody holders who do not have Danish citizenship if they send their child on a re-educational journey abroad. The rules of the Aliens Act on Reeducation Travel were tightened in 2010. Today, the residence permit of a minor foreigner may be withdrawn if he or she has remained outside Denmark for more than 3 consecutive months on a re-educational or other stay abroad of negative importance to schooling and integration, as stated in Section 17 of the Aliens Act. 2. However, we do not consider it sufficient that only the child's residence permit can be withdrawn, as it only has indirect consequences for the parents who send their child. It should also have consequences for the parental authority holder's own temporary or permanent residence permit if he decides to send his child on a re-education journey abroad. The Danish People's Party considers it an improvement in the current legal situation that a right to withdraw parents' residence permits in certain cases should be introduced if they send their child and that the involvement will have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. It will send a very clear signal that reeducational journeys are not tolerated by Denmark, not tolerated by the Folketing. A parent couple's decision to send their child on a re-educational journey is often made because the child has become too Danish from the point of view of the parents, which means that the child behaves Danish and takes into account the standards that are typical of Danish children. This behaviour on the part of the child does not, in our view, represent a problem, but rather an indication that integration is moving in the right direction. When parents make such a choice, it is obvious that they do not really want to live their lives in a society such as the Danish one, and this should have consequences, including for parents. The Danish People's Party hopes, first of all, that the resolution will help prevent reeducational journeys, since this is an attack on children and young people. But if the child has already been sent away from Denmark, the whole family should follow the Danish People's Party's view. It is a good proposal and it is a necessary proposal. The Danish People's Party made a similar proposal in 2012. Unfortunately, no other party wanted to vote in favour of this. That is why, of course, I would like to thank the Social Democrats and the SF for being able to speak in favour of this proposal, which we have tabled together. I hope that the government will also end up supporting the proposal. The minister then has his own proposal. One part of that proposal is about removing the three-month rule, as I understand it. There I would urge the Minister to reconsider that part, because it is a weakening and relaxing of the current rules, which, of course, removes some of the consequences of sending your children on a re-educational journey. If the parents know that the child is coming back, then it may be that they think that then there is no consequence in sending the child out, and therefore it may be that more will be sent off on a re-educational journey, if you can be sure that the child always returns. On the other hand, the government's proposal to put parents in prison, in other words to punish them and put them in prison, will be a strengthening in cases where parents cannot be sent out of the country immediately. So allow me to think that the best compromise is to adopt this proposal and then introduce prison sentences in cases where people cannot be sent out of the country. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418154516	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are no brief comments. Would you like to speak more? I regard silence as a 'no', and the negotiations have therefore been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180418154541	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 19 April 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
