ParlaMint-DK_20180119100025	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 64 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a temporary end to student loans for foreign students). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180119100051	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 23 January 2018. It's first, sir. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the questioners for a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119100114	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has raised this question solely as a result of a deep and real concern for Greenland. As you know, we are talking about a country with only 45,000 inhabitants, i.e. roughly the same number as in Vordingborg Municipality. Greenland is part of the Kingdom of Denmark and as such covered by the Constitution. Greenland is represented here in the Folketing, everyone in Greenland is Danish citizens, and everyone in Greenland can get a Danish passport. Everyone in Greenland has the right to move to Denmark at any time and from day one has all rights. That is why we, as Members of Parliament, have the right not only to respond but also to see that Greenland is heading towards economic collapse and therefore a social disaster. We have here in Things adopted a dull trend, namely that we are very much allowed to engage, interfere, if you will, in all sorts of circumstances in all sorts of countries, when we experience economic and social breakdown, but when it comes to 45,000 Danish citizens in Greenland, we sneak away from any responsibility, certainly by a ridiculous fear of being colonial. This request would not be necessary if Greenland's Home Rule Government and Greenland's Landsting were in full swing to solve the country's structural challenges. Unfortunately, this is not the case. On the other hand, there seems to be a strong concern to create an independent country as soon as possible, while at the same time failing to tell your people exactly what dramatic consequences for living standards and welfare an independent Greenland will have, as well as neglecting to review and expose the very long series of economic obligations which the State, after Greenland's independence, naturally no longer assumes. I look forward to hearing the Prime Minister's answer and also to hearing how my colleagues in the Danish Parliament view the development of Greenland and their suggestions for what can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119100320	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the PM, here you go. You are very welcome to photograph from the press gallery. I just want to ask you not to use a flash. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119100332	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important inquiry debate with the theme Greenland's independence process and economics. In May last year we discussed the same subject in this Chamber in a similar debate on questions, and then I explained the setting up of the Greenland Constitutional Commission, and I also gave the status of the constitutional work. After all, the Commission has continued at the initial stage of its work and it is therefore limited what has actually come from new, further information since the May discussion. So I will confine myself to highlighting a few key questions about the work of the Commission. As I have been informed, the Commission is in the process of establishing its secretariat, and this summer, among other things, there was a meeting. appoint a Head of Secretariat. In August of last year, the Commission has been on an inspirational visit to Iceland to inform itself about Iceland's independence process and constitutional work, and during this year the Commission will hold a conference to highlight the importance and importance of the work and purpose of a Greenlandic constitution. In principle, the Commission is working with a time frame of 2-3 years from the establishment. The composition of the Commission has changed as a result of a member's change of party and a member's leave from Inatsisartut. The Commission will therefore, as a result of the changes, temporarily have 6 members and continue its work after a break. In connection with the changes in the composition of the Commission, Naalakkersuisut has decided to offer the Greenlandic municipalities the opportunity to nominate one of the mayors of the country as appointed to the Commission. In relation to the understanding of the work of the Commission and its publication, I understand that it is the approach of the national government that the Commission only some time in its work, after among other things. The Commission's final proposals will therefore be submitted to the people of Greenland, and this is the starting point whether there will be a constitution or parts of a constitution that will apply, while Greenland is part of the Kingdom Community, i.e. a kind of identity document, whether you like, or a constitution that will only apply to an independent Greenland. As I have said before, and I would like to repeat this here, a future Greenlandic constitution must respect the Constitution if the Constitution is to apply while Greenland is part of the Commonwealth. As I have also mentioned earlier, it is clear that if the Greenlandic people, in a referendum, sign up to a constitution for an independent Greenland, in other words decide on autonomy, then it means that there must be negotiations between the government and the Naalaksususut on the implementation of Greenland's independence. This is clearly the result of the Self-Government Act. I cannot pre-empt, nor should I anticipate, whether the work is organised in a way that leads to a situation in which there should be such negotiations, i.e. about autonomy and, by its very nature, I cannot anticipate the outcome of such negotiations either. However, I have made two key points in this regard in the past, which I would also like to reiterate here. Firstly, it is absolutely essential that there is clarity as to what the purpose of the process is. I therefore continue to appeal for a clear speech to be made here. I assume, therefore, that there will be a dialogue between the government and the State of Naalak before a proposal is put to the vote, if necessary, so that there is no doubt as to the scope of a referendum. Secondly, I do not see a situation in which the state's grant or task solution continues for a longer period after Greenland's independence. That is my line, and it is a line that was also broadly agreed politically in the Folketing during the debate last spring and which was reflected in the adoption. A Greenland on its own feet presupposes a self-sustaining economy. At present the economy is good in Greenland, growth is high, unemployment has fallen, and this is mainly due to higher shrimp quotas and favourable prices for fish products. However, Greenland continues to face major economic challenges in terms of growth, employment and fiscal sustainability. As the Greenland Economic Council has pointed out for a number of years, there is a need for reforms that need new revenue. The Council's latest calculations show the need for budgetary improvements of approx. 1 billion kr. or 7%. And it is therefore calculations based on the fact that Greenland has the position that Greenland now has as part of the Kingdom Community, and that we have a block grant and a partly Danish solution to the problem in Greenland. So far, there have been no reforms in Greenland which have reduced the sustainability challenge decisively. We cannot rely solely on new revenue or invest our way out of the problems. That said, business development is, of course, part of the self-government's response to the challenges, and here self-government has given special attention to the exploitation of Greenland's raw material potential, but also to the development of the tourist industry. In this context, Greenland focuses a great deal on the development of infrastructure in the form of more and better airports, such as: can increase tourism, which can then once again contribute to growth and new jobs. Work is currently being carried out in Greenland in the first phase with investments of just over 3.5 billion. kr. or barely 25%. by BNP 25 per cent. of bnp is a large amount. I am not able to come up with any historical example from Denmark that can match an investment of that magnitude. After my best memory it will be equal to 55 of the aircraft purchases we are about to make, that is 55 times the purchase of those aircraft of type F-35, so it says something about what kind of investment you are thinking about. The self-government itself seeks to raise 2 billion. kr. of the 3.5 billion kr. through extraordinary dividends from the self-owned companies, while the remaining amount is assumed to be loan-financed with a guarantee from the treasury. There is not yet detailed information on the economy of the projects, i.e. any thoroughly worked transparent business case, but it is Greenland's Economic Council's assessment that the projects are overall not profitable and that it increases the risk of self-government finances. That is why, a few weeks ago, I discussed the issue of new airports with the chairman of the Naalaksuisut, Kim Kielsen, and I indicated in this connection that I understand and fully respect the desire and vision for a better infrastructure in Greenland, also from a development perspective, of course I do. However, I also expressed concern about the possible risk that the projects pose to Greenland's economy if, overall, they do not prove to be economically viable. That is why I offered Kim Kielsen that we, from the Danish side, provide administrative assistance when details of the economics of the projects are available, and it is expected here later, in the spring. In addition to the sustainability challenge, Denmark's economic relationship with Greenland overall consists of three elements. Firstly, Denmark's contribution this year to Greenland, i.e. the block grant, amounts to 3.8 billion. kr. or just over half of the total income of the Danish Treasury, so for every 2 DKK that comes in the Danish Treasury, one comes from Denmark. This makes it possible for Greenland to have significantly higher welfare than would otherwise be the case. Secondly, as you know, Denmark carries out a number of tasks in Greenland, which Greenland itself has the opportunity to take over, and it follows from the Self-Government Act that Greenland itself finances the acquisition. But until that happens, it is Denmark that finances. Denmark has expenditure on the 30 or so areas which have not yet been taken over in the order of approx. 0.5 billion kr. This includes, among other things: financial matters, police, justice and criminal justice. So a block grant of 3.8 billion. kr. and the solution of things that could, in principle, be taken home for just over 0.5 billion. kr. $4.3 billion. kr. Thirdly, the wealthy authorities deal with a few areas which can only be transferred to Greenland by independence. It follows from the constitution, and that includes among other things. foreign, defence and security policy. In the field of defence, Denmark spends more than 0.5 billion. kr. annual in Greenland. The funds go mainly to the supremacy of sovereignty, but also to the search and rescue capability; this is an important task, as we saw in the tragic natural disaster at the Karratfjord in West Greenland last June. With the agreement to strengthen the defence solution in the Arctic, an additional 120 million will be added. kr. annually to the area. This is therefore a block grant of 3.8 billion. kr., on tasks for 0.5 billion. kr. that can be taken home and about tasks that currently cost 0.5 billion. kr. increasing to something more, and which are really rich tasks, which, if the kingdom community dissolves, to some extent must be handled in Greenland. It just makes me say quite quietly that, overall, there is a situation where, in order not to exaggerate things, you face a very, very big economic challenge if Greenland is to be independent. Now independence is not just about financial resources; Greenland also needs an education boost to strengthen economic development. The Greenland Economic Council has also pointed this out, and I know that Naala Suisut is very aware of this issue and gives it high priority. Many of the areas that Greenland has not yet taken over require highly specialised labour. This applies in the financial field, and this applies in the field of airport, to mention just a few examples. Of course, you can choose to enter into cooperation agreements with Denmark or otherwise buy services from outside, if the people themselves do not have the necessary competences, but this is probably not what is thought of or desired in Greenland. On the part of the government, we would like to cooperate further with self-government in the field of education, if there is a desire for it, and that is generally the government's approach to the kingdom community. I am fully convinced that good cooperation between our countries benefits our peoples the most. I am fully convinced that a strong national community is in the interest of all three countries and in the discussion here in Denmark and Greenland's clear interest. I respect the fact that others have a different attitude... It is the construction work outside (referring to the construction work at Christiansborg Palace Square, from which it noisy of our gross domestic product. I should just like to finish by saying that I respect the fact that others have a different attitude, but I must also say that I do not entirely agree with the economic reality of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119101505	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then we'll move on with mr. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119101522	I thank the Prime Minister for a very factual answer to this question. There is no doubt in my mind that the Prime Minister seriously sees the economic, social and constitutional situation in Greenland. It is essential that this is the case, and I thank the Prime Minister for that. Allow me to make it clear that, without State subsidies, Greenland would not be able to survive economically, and even with block subsidies Greenland is already financially at its knees. As the Prime Minister points out, the Greenland Economic Council has estimated that over the next few years budget improvements of 1 billion will have to be found. kr., and this, according to Danish conditions, would correspond to demands for budget improvements of 100 billion. kr. It is a staggering amount, it is a frightening amount, which would either lead to catastrophic public cuts or throw Denmark to the lions on the international loan market, especially if it were to prove that there was no possibility of restoring the economy over a number of years. For this reason, it should be expected that Greenland's local government and Landsting were busy preparing significant reforms, especially in the miserable education system, as well as in business reforms, now that the Greenland political leadership must have realised that the dream of raw materials billions is finally over. But no, Greenland's politicians don't have time for this sort of thing. They have other grander plans: independence. That agenda has surprisingly all the political parties committed themselves to. The process is set in motion, it cannot be stopped, they all rejoice, and Greenland's management therefore seems completely indifferent to reality. Even the most staunch Greenlandic politicians even talk about Greenland being an independent country on the very 300th anniversary of Hans Egedes's arrival on the island. It's in three years' time in three years. The plan, even with neutral glasses, is not viable. The Greenlandic economy is running in these months, so to speak, on speed. The many crowns which are now being cheerfully served on fishing seem to blur the senses, so that nobody talks about the horrific structural problems. They seem so abstract that they are completely packed away in the normal public debate. Politicians, instead, in the public debate, express a very different story: that independence is the solution one It is, of course, a deliberately distorted image. It is concealed to the people of Greenland exactly what dramatic and scary consequences for living standards and welfare an independent Greenland will bring, as well as neglecting to review and expose the very long series of financial obligations which the state, after Greenland's independence, naturally no longer assumes. A responsible Landsting and local government would have long since presented all these consequences to the people of Greenland and then, rather than using all the energy to conjure up utopian images, instead purposefully throw all the effort into solving Greenland's economic and social problems. In my party, we find it difficult to believe that Greenland's political leadership has the ability and will to remedy the situation. I shall therefore make the following points - and I shall say that it is on behalf of the Danish People's Party that no one else, unfortunately, has agreed to do so: the proposal for adoption by the Danish Parliament finds that even in a situation where 55.7 percent of the income of the Danish National Treasury is provided by the State and where significant financial expenditure such as, among other things, the Federal Republic of Germany. citizenship, the Supreme Court, the EEAS, border controls, defence and security are further provided by the state, ruling Greenland day by day towards economic collapse. The Danish Parliament further notes that the construction of three major airports at a total cost of just under four billion kroner will dramatically speed up the process, as the Danish Parliament regrets that the autonomy seems to be lacking both the will and the ability to solve the structural challenges of society, while the leading politicians spend all their energy on establishing independence. Parliament deplores the profoundly serious situation that self-government has put citizens in in this way. • V 27).
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102011	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further discussion. Then there's a questioner. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102025	Thank you. I would actually like to start by saying that I both appreciate and acknowledge the great commitment that Mr. Søren Espersen has in Greenlandic society and which I really believe is from a deep concern, as Mr. Søren Espersen himself said. And I kind of share a lot of the concerns that Søren Espersen has. Having said that, I have to say that I very much disagree with the solutions which Mr. Søren Espersen sees for himself. And I understand from the public debate that we have had over the past few months that we have had, among other things. The Danish People's Party is considering whether Denmark should put Greenland under administration. I'd just like to know what you're really imagining. It was a proposal put forward by Thorkild Kjærgaard in a chronicle. What exactly do you imagine would happen? So, are you going to deploy Danish social authorities, more Danish police on the streets? Do you really believe that taking responsibility from all of Greenlandic society for their own future will meet some of the major challenges? Because I have to say that I really think that historical experience tells a different story.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102139	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102141	We have not proposed the suspension of autonomy, as it is true that Professor Thorkild Kjærgaard did in a chronicle in Jyllands-Posten the other day. I have a fear that if there is no significant change in the way the Greenland political leadership controls the country, then at some point it will come to the situation that Greenland collapses economically. In this situation, Denmark cannot stand on the sidelines and see that this happens, and I do not think, if we are talking about an independent state. I think it will come if there is no dramatic change in political developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102225	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102237	That clarification was of course important. Well, it is in a future scenario where Greenland has gone bankrupt, if I may say so, that Mr. Søren Espersen can see that Denmark like to put Greenland under administration. I'm glad to hear that. But if there's anything else, like sir... Søren Espersen and Dansk Folkeparti believe that Denmark should do now, or do you really just want this question to air your concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102257	It is not only in a situation where Greenland has acquired full autonomy that an administration could be called upon to speak. It is clear that if Greenland is an independent country, it has run, and then Greenland itself has to save itself out of it, just as other failed states have to save themselves out of it. I am talking about a situation towards independence, where, as I say, it may not be necessary for decisive economic reforms to take place. I would like to say that we have done so with individual municipalities. I mean, Farum was put under administration, and didn't that happen on Djursland too? Denmark has a tradition of intervening before the accident occurs. And that is actually what I am calling for here for the Greenlandic politicians themselves to do. Because they don't want a collaboration with Denmark about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102346	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102350	I'd like to say Happy New Year to Mr. Espersen, and thank you for the question debate. After all, Greenland is a democratic society. The country is led not only by some politicians, but by some politicians, whom the people have voted in to be able to do a good job. As far as the independence process is concerned, it is not a new process, but it is a process which has been going on for many years already since a previous generation than mine. In this context, on the road to the self-government agreement, it has been important for Greenlandic politicians to involve the Greenlandic citizens as much as possible, and in this context the population has also been inside and had a very large share in the drafting of the self-government legislation today. It is the people who are behind the Act of Self-Government. It is a democratic process. What does the rapporteur say that it is not just politicians who come up with ideas, but that it is the people who are behind them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102455	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102456	Well, I have not contested that Greenland is a democratic society and that the people are behind it. Of course you do. Then there's something that might be wondering. Let us just take as an example the three major airports where we do not intend and have not done so on the part of the self-government to present an economic forecast of what is going to happen, how the money is to be provided. It has been said that half of them will be disbursed. From which treasury? Where do you have 2 billion? kr. Lying for it? What's gonna happen after that? Is there any hotel capacity for all this? How is this all gonna work? You don't tell the people what's happening. I am a diligent reader of the Greenland newspapers, and the Home Rule Government of Greenland simply does not want to present it. You have started, and then there will be something later, and I blame the politicians for that. Then it is clear that the people cannot keep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102556	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102558	Nor should we believe everything the newspapers say, nor should we leave one's knowledge solely based on what the newspapers say. That would be completely wrong. Just as the Prime Minister highlighted it so well, growth is high in Greenland and unemployment has fallen, and Greenlandic politicians and voters are behind the need for investment and growth in Greenland. It is not just to free us from the block subsidy, but to provide a better everyday life for the country's citizens in general. Having said that, I would just like to ask the rapporteur what advantages the rapporteur sees there can be for Denmark when Greenland goes and becomes independent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102647	The only advantage for Denmark will be that we save 4 billion. kr. every year. For the Greenlandic population, there will be no advantage in independence until the moment when the Greenlandic politicians have restored the economy, got the wheels going, created a business development, got a proper education system. By year it may be in the interests of the Greenlandic population, but not now. This is not the discussion we have in Greenland at all. After all, it is about here and now and that the Constitutional Commission must be completed soon, and we are hurrying. After all, it is not about how we solve the country's problems so that we can become self-employed. That is where I blame Greenland's self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102725	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102731	Thank you very much. And thank you very much to the rapporteur for addressing this issue. I think it is important to say that we also share a number of fundamental values between Greenland and Denmark. It is respect for human rights, it is respect for democracy, and it is a welfare society that we have also been greatly inspired by in the way that Danish society operates. That is why I also think it is extremely important to respect the Greenlandic electorate, and I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party believes that this is respectful in relation to the Greenlandic electorate. Do you think that the way to solve the challenges is to roll back developments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102814	I think it is very respectful to note that these are Danish citizens who have a political leadership that does not have the will and, in my view, also the ability to control Greenland financially. It doesn't have a pat on it. Sorry about the term "human rights." This is an economic debate, a very, very pragmatic debate on how it can be done to be independent when 55.7%. The cost is already being paid by the State; how it is possible to build three huge airports worth almost 4 billion. kr. This is a pragmatic discussion. There is simply not the money for it, but still you continue. Respect for Greenland, I believe, to a large extent, that I have. It is out of respect for 45,000 Danish citizens living in Greenland that I have raised this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102907	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102909	In Greenlandic democracy there are many different political positions, just as there is in Danish democracy. After all, there are many people in Greenland who are concerned about the economy and who express their concern politically, but also very much in the social debate. I think it is important to allow for the possibility, in the various nuances, also in Greenlandic politics, of the Greenlandic political system. After all, we are some who have some of the concerns and who also work on a daily basis to see that those concerns are expressed, as in the debate in Greenland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102949	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119102951	I don't really have anything to answer there. I think it is clear that there are different political nuances in Greenland. But so far I have to say that all the Greenlandic parties have set the course for independence. A Constitutional Commission has been set up which is in full swing with the work and which is already in full swing with planning, for example. the three major airports. That is what I see. And that is what we are talking about from an economic point of view: it is not possible. So do not tell the people of Greenland that it is possible, because there is no such thing at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103031	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103035	Thank you. Happy New Year to the rapporteur, too, and thank you for your speech. I have two questions in relation to getting the rapporteur to reflect a little more on what work has been started in Greenland. I think that the assumptions expressed by the rapporteur can sometimes become a little one-sided and indefensible. In his motivation, the rapporteur says that we have a ridiculous fear of not being colonial masters and that that is why we are not acting here. Could it also be that we are perhaps witnessing a nation that is building a national identity, which may also be why this commission has been set up as the one that the Prime Minister also speaks as an identity document?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103131	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103132	Well, I'm sure that's true. I don't want to question that. But what has been set in motion I could also understand from the Prime Minister's speech, but it is possible, I have misunderstood it, you don't even really know what is. So, is it something that should be within the framework of the constitution and where the Kingdom community continues, or should it be a constitution for an independent state? Even we have not been able to get proper answers to that. We are certainly a party to the case. Why can't we know? I am convinced that there is a lot of cultural desires in the people of Greenland, who may see something shining in being an independent nation, but it just requires that you have the economy in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103215	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103216	Now I hear the rapporteur again using the economy as a lever to dictate a lot from Denmark, and again we do not leave a process of equal and respectful cooperation to take place in Greenland. The question of what the document is to be used for is, of course, also a process which they themselves are in the process of clarifying, and before we then demand an answer to them, we have to respect them and give them the time to develop their vision for their country. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103257	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103258	I just think that when there is talk of a Constitutional Commission, we have a Kingdom Community now that all three parties have an interest in what is going on. And yes, of course I use the economy as a lever, because the economy is a lever for all There is nothing I can't immediately think of anything that doesn't have a basis in the economy when we're discussing here in Parliament. That is where it starts: if we have money for it, we can manage it, there are opportunities for the future, etc.? That's what we're working with within everyone. You don't do that in Greenland's self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103334	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103337	Thank you. I would like to correct the rapporteur a little. I have twice quite specifically heard Søren Espersen in debates suggesting the possibility of putting Greenland under administration, i.e. not in the future or after a bankruptcy, or whatever, but quite specifically. I would first like to know whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that this is true. The second is: if the rapporteur compares Greenland with the fact that we can put Farum under administration, with what right does the Folketing have that option? How is this described? As far as I remember, Greenland is not a municipality in Denmark, Greenland is actually a country with which we cooperate in the kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103430	The last thing first: the Constitution sets the framework for it. 90 seats in the Folketing are so abundant to abolish self-government. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Whether or not 90 can be obtained is another question, and I really do not think there can be. However, there are of course no obstacles to our being able to abolish Greenland's autonomy here in the Folketing. On the subject of being under administration: yes, I have aired that as an opportunity, certainly. I think, as I said to Mr. Simpson... Martin Lidegaard, also that the situation will come that it will be necessary. I hope that's not gonna happen. But if the Home Rule Government of Greenland continues not to solve the country's structural problems, then it will be necessary, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103518	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103519	Thank you. The second question is a little more fundamental: does the rapporteur believe that a country, a people, a municipality, anything, develops best under the administration of a domination or through the development of a democracy in parallel with the development of the economy? It is actually a trivial question, and I hope that there is only one answer to it, but I would like to hear the rapporteur. Because it sounds like putting people under administration can solve anything. I believe that it creates more problems because it creates a lack of ownership to develop one's own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103602	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103604	I do not know, but I think Farum is quite pleased that some time ago it was put under administration. I think so. It is not my impression that there are problems there anymore. But look at such a word as Mr. Christian Juhl uses supremacy. Is that so, sir? Christian Juhl sees the state's efforts in the Kingdom community, that is to say as a domination, where there is full autonomy in Greenland, full autonomy in the Faroe Islands, and where the state subsidises with funds both places and also helps solve a number of problems? Is that supremacy? It is such an expression, which I actually think belongs more to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl's past. I didn't expect us to hear it again today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103647	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103652	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that it is fine that Mr. Søren Espersen is interfering in the debate in all areas of the Kingdom community. As far as the Faroe Islands are concerned, he does, and I welcome that. Many others have also interfered in the debate on Greenland's economy in recent months. However, this change has been made in relation to the fact that there are more and more people, including those who are reasonably high-profile, who are talking about directly suspending self-government. Now I understood sir. Søren Espersen's answer, both to Mr. Martin Lidegaard and Mr. Christian Juhl, that the Danish People's Party is not strapped to their wagon and that one does not want to suspend self-government. However, the rapporteur says that Greenlandic politicians, in other words Greenlandic politicians without exception and in general terms, do not have the ability and the will to do what is necessary to avoid an economic disaster in Greenland. If sir... Søren Espersen says that self-government should not be suspended and that these politicians do not have the ability and do not have the will. No one has the ability and will. What does he think Denmark should do?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103809	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103811	I had hoped that today we could send a clear message to Greenland's self-government that it is not acceptable with the way it operates financially. That's what I was hoping for. That is what our proposal for adoption says. I hope that won't be necessary. Having to suspend self-government is not something you look forward to, but I am just saying that the situation can easily come if you do not pull yourself together and solve the country's structural problems. I would say that, if I may say Greenlandic politicians, it is because there is not one party in the Landsting that has not set the course for independence, that is not one. I hear stale voices from individuals who may have a different view, but who wisely keep quiet about it because it is not very popular in Greenland. I also have a rewarding hope that one day there will be a party in Greenland that could give this counterweight. I hope that happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103906	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119103907	Thank you. There are certain parallels with the Faroe Islands, and sometimes I have said in the Faroe Islands myself that the debate about separation from Denmark may look like something similar to escapism from the problems faced and that it will then be a kind of identity policy. There may be certain aspects of it in the Faroe Islands and sometimes also in Greenland, and it is unfortunate if what is at issue is that the debate on secession is a kind of escapism, which I sometimes think also applies in the Faroe Islands. But I also think that, when we talk about suspending self-government, it is escapism, and if we get these two positions against each other, i.e. a separation from Denmark from Greenland on the one hand and the suspension of self-government on the other, we get the total confrontation which does no good at all. Does Søren Espersen agree with that interpretation, in that understanding?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104015	Thank you. It is always good to start with the question, because then you will have it delivered before the comments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104020	I do not see anything particularly escapist in saying that there may be a situation within not so long when Denmark will have to temporarily suspend self-government in Greenland because of the economy. Is that escapism? I would rather accuse many of my colleagues here in the Danish Parliament of being an escapist when it comes to Greenland, because there are my colleagues who are good at keeping their mouths shut. I would say, then, that this is a pragmatic discussion. I have said this from the outset and it is an economic discussion: is there money for it? Is there money now even with the block grant? There isn't even one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104057	Thank you. Then there are no more comments, and then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104107	Thank you. Social democracy has always expressed respect for the desire for independence in Greenland, and I would like to repeat that today. Greenland has chosen to set up an independent committee, and it is for me to look up to the Greenlanders to decide what should happen next if anything is to happen. The Social Democrats naturally believe that the formulation of a Greenlandic constitution must not conflict with the constitution, nor is it new. It must be up to the Greenlanders to find out when they are ready for independence. I do not believe that the Greenlandic people are ready for this yet. They need a much higher level of education and a much greater development of their businesses, of mining and tourism before the economy is so strong that it can bear independence, as the Greenlandic politicians know. Of course, it is also necessary for the Greenlandic people to know. When the request for independence comes at some point in the future, an agreement must be made between Greenland and Denmark. We are absolutely sure that will happen at some point, and we expect laws and rules to be respected in the process, including the Constitution. In addition, we in the Social Democratic Party do not think that this is a particularly appropriate way of trying to influence the process that is political in Greenland. We stand by the agreement that the Danish parties, however minus the Danish People's Party, have entered into with Greenland on behalf of Denmark. This also means that we respect the drafting of a constitution for Greenland. The constitutional work is part of a process of autonomy, and it should therefore not surprise anyone, especially in the case of Greenland, where virtually all parties support autonomy in one form or another. There is no doubt that the Constitution is highest in the legal hierarchy of the Kingdom community. If Greenland adopts a constitution, it must comply with the Constitution if you want to remain in the Kingdom Community. I would like to conclude by repeating that, of course, we Social Democrats stand by the Self-Government Act as an agreement between Greenland and Denmark. This means that the block grant from Denmark to Greenland follows the provisions of the Self-Government Act, and this means that it is entirely up to the Greenlandic people to decide whether or when they will be an independent country with the consequences, including the economic consequences that it will have for the country. I shall read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of all parties in the Folketing except DF. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that the self-government law is based on the desire to promote equality between Greenland and Denmark and increase Greenlandic self-determination. The Danish Parliament notes that the Greenlandic people are a people under international law with the right to self-determination and that the Greenlandic people can decide on independence as long as the process takes place within the framework of the constitution. If the Greenlandic people make such a decision, they will, in accordance with the Act of Self-Government, involve negotiations between the Government and the Government with a view to achieving independence for Greenland. The Folketing considers that the question of Greenland's independence cannot be seen independently of the economy of a self-sustaining Greenland. The Danish Parliament notes that the economic situation is currently favourable in Greenland, but notes that the Greenland Economic Council continues to point out the need for reforms and new revenue if a sustainable economy is to be ensured in Greenland. The Danish Parliament notes that the Self-Government Act requires a standard of Danish responsibilities in Greenland corresponding to the standard in Denmark, taking into account Greenlandic conditions. • V 28).
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104513	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further discussions. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104526	Thanks for the post. Now we are in the Kingdom community, and there I suppose we can talk freely about what we think of the different countries and parties and something like that within the Kingdom community. I assume we can. So I would really like to ask the Socialist rapporteur in such a pragmatic way: is she confident that Greenland's autonomy is capable of solving the country's economic structural problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104556	As a starting point, I believe that we should have confidence in it. As things stand now, there is not an economy in Greenland that allows you to become self-employed. But that is not to say once and for all that this is never going to happen. In our adoption text we also write that there is a favourable development in the economy of Greenland at the moment, and it is a hope for all of us that that economy can become even stronger. If Greenland succeeds in achieving a strong economy that can be strong enough for independence to come into play, then we can only welcome it. But we're not there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104643	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104645	But is there a favourable development in Greenland's structural development? I don't think there is. You are catching a lot of fish at the moment, but even if you imagined that they could catch ten times as many fish or twenty times as many fish or fifty times as many fish as they are doing today, it would not solve the country's economic structural problems. I note that the rapporteur said that, as a starting point, she believes that Greenland's autonomy is capable of and has the will and ability to solve the country's economic structural problems. Is it just a starting point, or is there little doubt about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104721	I mean, there are other sources of income than fish. The fish are currently moving around a little because of climate change, but there are also other sources of income, and there is no doubt that tourism will grow in Greenland. Nor is there any doubt that there is a basis for greater industrial development than the one currently in existence. is in Greenland. We can, for example. just take the port of Nuuk, which has expanded a lot in recent years, and see how important it has been in relation to extra activity and many more people in work. So, of course, there are options. As I see it, the people of Greenland cannot today cope with independence, but we must not close the door to them and say that this can never happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104812	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104816	Thank you. I would just like to point out that not all parties in the Parliamentary Chamber, apart from the Danish People's Party, were included in the proposal, because Tjóðveldi is outside. We have our own proposal, which I will explain later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104831	Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104833	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. It wasn't encouraging. I think you have wool in your mouth when you say "if" and "when." On the other hand, I heard the rapporteur say that she had said before that the Social Democrats supported independence, and she wanted to make that clear. I should just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that, on the basis of what is here, there is an earthly chance of becoming independent? In other words, we are dealing with an economy which is already glaringly far away from reality, yet the rapporteur stands by and says that we want independence. This does not just concern Greenland or Greenlandic politicians; it is for the people of Greenland that it should be a good idea, i.e. whether you have autonomy or whether you are still part of the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104940	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119104942	The way it is presented today, I think that the Danish People's Party is like closing the door and saying: this is never going to happen with them! I do not think that should be the message from the Danish Parliament. I think that the message to the Greenlandic and Greenlandic politicians should be that, as we see it, there is no possibility of it today, but that this should not mean that it will never be possible in the future. It must be a decision that the Greenlandic people make when the conditions that must be present can also be met, including, of course, the economic conditions which I then very much agree with the Danish People's Party in certainly are not present today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105034	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105037	We have a challenge with the fact that no plans have been made for the process. It has been set in motion, but there are no plans for where it will end. We are not aware of where those plans might lead. The rapporteur says that there are other options than fishing, even if it can swing both to one side and to the other. Søren Espersen says it very clearly when he says that if you fished it fifty times, it would never save it. The rapporteur points out that there may be other sources of income, such as raw materials and tourism. So the development of raw materials is not going to take place at all to this extent. You have to sail almost half the world's population to Greenland, where they each leave a hundred kroner note before it corrects this. I don't think it's gonna happen. If you think that Greenland should become independent, what about all the tasks being carried out by the Danish state now? Who does the rapporteur think would do so under the same conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105149	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105150	The questioner says that we do not know where it is going, and it is true that we do not know, because it is a process that has just begun. And it can be difficult to demand answers to anything once you have started the investigation work. Then the questioner says that mining will not happen. How does the rapporteur know? Well, you can't stand here today, mid-January 2018, and say it's never gonna happen. It is difficult, yes, and the companies that have bought the concessions that are are not yet ready to extract, because elsewhere around the world where they have some concessions are easier to extract. But that day can easily come, where some of the things that lie under the rocks up in Greenland are so valuable that they are taken up. I do not think we can be so consistent in our statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105249	Thank you. Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105254	It has been the case in recent months that there has been a legitimisation of the generalisation of Greenlandic and Greenlandic politicians, as was the case with the Faroe Islands not so many years ago. When you're generally referred to as someone who can't, it turns off a spark, a desire to prove something else. What is the rapporteur's view that the debate in Denmark generally refers to Greenlandic and Greenlandic policies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105339	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105341	It is bad for our relationship with Greenland that you have a tendency on the Danish side to do so, and it is not just politicians; others outside this house also tend to generalise about Greenland. I think it is based on ignorance about Greenland. It is based on a lack of knowledge of the many different parties that are there and in ignorance of how the parties work, and not least in ignorance of Greenlandic conditions. We could say the same about the Faroe Islands. Actually, I think we could. It is just not at all a problem in the context that is in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105423	Thank you, and then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105424	We hear very often, when there is discussion about Greenland's independence and the process of independence, that there are some who say: I believe in it and I do not believe it. It cannot be done, and it can be done. We have that discussion at home too. I also think that this is a perfectly natural discussion, and the problem we have in terms of the economy is also at home. It is not the case that Greenland wants independence whatever it may take, and we just do. It's not. The world is much more nuanced than what is being highlighted by the Danish People's Party today. I think it is important that the Folketing stands firm in recognising the Greenlandic people under international law and in knowing that Greenland has the right to self-determination, and we have chosen that self-determination according to the constitutional framework. If we stand together about this, I also believe that we have a pleasant relationship between Denmark and Greenland, as long as there is mutual respect, also according to the agreement we stand together. Does the rapporteur think that the process we are in must be changed, or should we stick to the good agreement we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105542	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105543	In fact, I think that the adoption text that I read out before confirms what the questioner says. Yes, there is mutual respect. There is close cooperation between Greenland and Denmark at many levels, and I think we should continue along this path. We should not be blind to the problems that are; I would like to admit that to DF, but we must see if we can help along the way instead of scolding and saying: Now we are taking power from you. Let's take it home. It's not conducive. So I can confirm that we in the Socialist Group at least stand by the agreements that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105625	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105626	Growth has been high and unemployment has fallen in recent years, and it also looks positive for the future, as Mr. Prime Minister Highlighted it. I also think it is extremely important, when we talk about the independence process for Greenland, that we not only look at the block grant as the only point to be discussed in the relationship between Denmark and Greenland. How does the rapporteur view the good relations that Greenland has, also in a process where independence is discussed in Greenland? Does it benefit relations between Denmark and Greenland that we have these discussions that we have in here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105706	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105707	I understood it that way about the discussion we have today No, I do not think so, but I do not have the attitude that we should not talk about these things either. It's not like we have to tuck in and say that we shouldn't talk about this, and now we close our eyes and ears, and then Greenland has to take care of everything itself. I believe that there is cooperation at so many different levels, which could also be helpful at the stage where Greenland is discussing whether to be independent or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105749	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105752	Thank you very much. And thank you very much to the Social Democrat rapporteur, both for the rapporteur's speech and for the fine comments. Next year, it will be 10 years since we were given the self-government law in Greenland. It is true that when you point the finger at someone, a number of fingers are also pointed back at you, and I think it is important to stress that, despite this very important debate, it is important to remember that, in this way, we also have a large number of tasks here in the Folketing, which we have not been able to solve. We are not in a position to ensure that these 32 areas have, as it were, reached a standard that is sufficient, I would say. It is, of course, the case that the Act of Self-Government states that one must work for a standard that corresponds to the Danish one. It may well be that in this process, because it is a process for the Greenlandic people that you do not necessarily want to have a Danish standard on the long track, but that you might want to set up the different areas in a different way. And I think it is important to allow and allow the Greenlandic people to go through that process. And I want to know if the Social Democratic Party agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105903	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105904	After visiting Greenland six times now, I have no doubt that there are ways to do things in Denmark that are not so useful in Greenland. And it is clear that when legislation is to be made and agreements are to be made, it is necessary to take account of Greenland's conditions. And that is exactly what we have also said in the adoption text, namely that the Danish Parliament notes that the Act of Self-Government requires a standard of Danish responsibilities in Greenland that corresponds to the standard in Denmark, taking into account Greenlandic conditions. So for me it is quite natural that there are different ways to do things in Greenland than we would do them in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119105954	Thank you. And then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Well, you just have to be kind enough to press when you want a second comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110005	Thank you very much. In Greenland we are in the process of a nation building, you might say; we are in the process of building up a society as we would like it. We've had home rule since 1979, and things take time and things sometimes take a little longer than you might wish they would. But it is important to respect that process. As far as economic development is concerned, a Constitutional Commission has been set up, and we do not really know what the outcome will be at the end of the day. That is why I think it might be a little early to take this debate in the Folketing. Perhaps this should be done at a slightly later stage, when the Greenlandic people have had better opportunities to discuss these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110047-2	That is what I said in my speech. So there's no disagreement there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110052	Thank you. And that was the last comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110059	Thank you. Greenland has always had a unique place in Danish history. Through our common history, we have a unique unity across distances, which is used very much by Danes, Greenlanders and, of course, also by cousins who travel across the kingdom community to live, work and experience. In the form of my role as rapporteur for Greenland, I have attached a particularly close and personal relationship to both Greenland and the Kingdom Community as a whole, which is why I personally would find it very, very sad to lose such a central part of not only our history but also our realm identity. I will, of course, respect it at any time if a democratic majority wants independence, but I must add here that I sincerely welcome the strong and solid kingdom community that we enjoy today. It is natural and beneficial to take up the debate as we are doing here now, bearing in mind that there has been economic progress for Greenland in 2017. Greenland's independence is clearly dependent on the ability to create a sustainable economy and growth. Greenland's growth is based primarily on fishing, which accounts for a very, very large proportion of export earnings, and when fishing goes well, it is of course reflected in the Greenland economy. However, the economic progress in Greenland does not mean that the fundamental structural problems of the economy have been resolved, because an economy based primarily on one export, as I see it right now, is not sustainable in the long run. A self-supporting economy is a clear prerequisite for Greenlandic independence and if you take Denmark's block grant of 4 billion. kr. out of the Greenland State budget, it corresponds to about half of the total income of the national treasury. In addition, Greenland as well as Denmark and the Faroe Islands face the challenge that when there will be more elderly people in the future, there will be fewer people to pay for society. The only way to meet this challenge and ensure future welfare is to introduce reforms and develop a forward-looking business policy. The need for reform has also been pointed out by the Greenland Economic Council. That is why I do not think that political autonomy should be given priority at this stage, since economic autonomy is ahead of us. I very much hope that instead we can have a constructive debate across the Kingdom community on how to actively strengthen Greenland's economy through reforms. In addition, I also think we should look at how we can strengthen the cultural ties in the Kingdom community and increase investment in both Denmark and Greenland. It will strengthen not only the economy but also the feeling for the Kingdom community, which I believe is an important part of our entire Kingdom community. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110400	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110405	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for his good cooperation in drawing up a text for adoption. Thank you for your efforts. From Inuit Ataqatigiits side we work for a self-supporting economy. We also know that Greenland has taken the business area back a long time ago, and when we talk about the economy and economic development in Greenland, there is no doubt that something different is needed to ensure a stronger economy. Now it has been brought up here with the airports and the airport project, and with regard to Qaqortoq airport there is a recognition that it is a political project; it is not an investment project. With regard to the airports in Nuuk and Ilulissat, investment is necessary in order to create some growth. The recognition that Greenland is taking some political initiatives to ensure that some growth is created in Greenland's economy, I think it is just a matter of supporting. I want to hear what the rapporteur of the Left thinks about those ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110512	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110513	When you look at how difficult it can be to travel around to some of the parts of Greenland where, as I see it, there are great opportunities for growth in tourism, such as Ilulissat, I particularly see the airport project in Ilulissat as something that could make a big difference to Greenland's economy. There has been enormous growth in tourism, for example. Iceland, where people fly in for the weekend from Europe, from the United States, and I see a huge potential in something similar in Greenland, if you can develop these projects. But I am also well aware that these are projects of huge size compared to the Greenland economy, so I can just say that I hope that Greenland will be able to move forward and find investors and ways of realising it here, because I see this as one of the ways to create a decisive change in the Greenland economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110611	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110617	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I will have the opportunity later, I think, to comment on Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's latest reply, which was that one of the airports, we now understand, is a political project. That is, we are talking about 25%. of GDP, and the Prime Minister explained that, according to Danish conditions, this would mean a payout of 55 times our combat aircraft purchase. And then it was called a political project, because it is such a thing that sparks the mood. I'm gonna ask sir. Marcus Knuth the same question I put to the Social Democrat rapporteur: is the rapporteur confident that Greenland's autonomy is capable of solving the country's long-term economic problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110706	There is no doubt that Greenland, and this is also part of the debate we are having today, is facing an economic development which is strong, highly worrying, but I trust that Greenland's autonomy is an independent democratic body which is doing everything it can to strengthen the Greenland economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110742	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110743	I am now using airport buildings in particular as an example in a situation in which we are so financially squeezed. It is true that good fishing is being done at the moment, but as I mentioned earlier, it is not enough to solve these problems. But in the middle of this, you're using 25%. of GDP. Is this particularly wise, is it evidence of a leadership that has understood the seriousness of an economic situation in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110816	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110817	I do not agree with that, because it is difficult to travel to the different parts of Greenland. One typically has to via Kangerlussuaq and with the weather conditions that are, it makes it very, very difficult to move on to Nuuk, very, very difficult to move on to Ilulissat. I see, as I said before, a huge potential in tourism growth in Greenland, not least based on what has been seen in Iceland. If you are to be able to come to Greenland on a weekend visit as an American or European tourist, you need to be able to fly in directly and not risk being trapped in Kangerlussuaq for several days. So I believe that the expansion of airports, especially in Ilulissat, is something that is important for the expansion of Greenland's economy. We can then discuss how it is financed, and I think that is an interesting debate to take, but I think that we need to improve the Greenlandic infrastructure if we are to be able to create the growth opportunities in tourism, for which I believe there is potential.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110917	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119110920	The rapporteur on the Left recommended or asked the Greenlanders not to give priority to political autonomy. Is it not the driving force of every people in the development of one's country that one also has a desire for independence and democracy? I would remind you that in Denmark, for several periods of history, we have just used that drive to overcome other things. At one point there were even thoughts in the Danish royal house that we should be part of the German Empire because we were financially totally bankrupt in Denmark. Nevertheless, there was a feeling that independence, democracy and self-government were now the best thing to do, and so we also got out of the strange thinking that prevailed at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111014	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111015	When we look into reality and face the enormous economic challenges that Greenland faces, I think it would be a strange priority to spend so much time discussing an independence which, for economic reasons, will of course lie very, very far in the future. I therefore believe that time is better spent discussing this issue: how can some of the reforms which, among other things, can be implemented? the Greenland Economic Council recommends?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111052	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111055	But isn't it just about two legs, that is, striving to have independence and influence on one's country and at the same time working to make the economy work? I guess that's basically what we're doing in the Danish Parliament for Denmark. And have we not, precisely through the Kingdom Community, committed ourselves to helping Greenland get into the situation where they can both be independent and economically sustainable? So, I believe that this is the solidarity we have reached between the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark that we do so together, and we help each other with the forces and the economy and the resources we have together when someone has more difficulty with it than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111135	Well, I think we are making it very clear both in our government base and now in the text that we are adopting here that we respect the possibility of self-determination. But that does not change the enormous economic challenges that Greenland faces. We are discussing something that I think is a very relevant project and a very relevant subject, for example. how to expand the possibilities of flying directly to Greenland. And I think that is the relevant debate to have. At the same time, of course, we can discuss self-determination, and that is what we are doing right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111208	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111211	Now it is the case that we are not looking at restrictions as to what Greenlandic self-government can or cannot do. Nor is it the work of the Folketing to judge it. But one thing is certain: regardless of independence, it is important and necessary for Greenlandic society with reforms, and investment is necessary so that we in Greenland can meet the potential we have for economic growth for the benefit of the Greenlandic population, but also make us independent of the block grant. It is quite natural that we want to get rid of it, I think, even Having said that, it is also incredibly important for me to point out that it is not the Greenlandic Naala Suisut alone that decides what the route and line should be for the Greenlandic political world. There is a parliament, Mr Inatsisartut, behind which has also adopted the Finance Act and how Naala Suisut should give priority to their investments in society. It is a democratic process all the way through, for which I think there should be a great deal of respect. Whether we are capable of it or not is not the discussion here, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111314-2	I am not quite sure whether I should understand it as a comment or as a question. I do not know whether the rapporteur can repeat it a little more clearly. I heard it more as a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111330	Any questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111338	Is that my second question? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It can be said that Greenland is a fantastic country, and we also see that Greenland has a very great potential for strong economic progress, not only in terms of our fisheries, but also in terms of the raw materials sector and certainly also tourism. In order for a country to be more economically self-supporting, it is incredibly important to look at new opportunities and large investments. When we talk about the airports in Greenland and the cost that is, and also the Prime Minister highlights, it is important for Greenlandic society to see that it is not just an expense, but that it is an investment to get the funds back to something quite different that we can use it for. I think it is important to make Greenland available, but certainly also to ensure that we have more air seats so that we can benefit from our great nature, which the whole world also wants to see. I think that is the right direction to take. I personally also think that this is the right way to invest. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111434	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111434-2	Thank you. Now I get it a little better. I very much agree that investment is, of course, part of the way forward. In relation to the airport projects we are discussing here, I wholeheartedly support, as I said before, that this would benefit, among others. an area such as Ilulissat to have direct flight there. This is something that would not only strengthen tourism, as we have seen in Iceland, but I also believe that it is something that would strengthen the Kingdom community, i.e. also benefit ordinary Danes or Faroese people who would like to go to Greenland. After all, it is an obstacle that you have to pass Kangerlussuaq over and over again, where you risk being stuck for several days. So yes, infrastructure is a key part of the development of the Greenlandic economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111520	Thank you. Then perhaps I should just make it clear that you also have the right to just make a comment. You don't necessarily have to ask questions. Here you go, sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111529	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am aware that the rapporteur has been very concerned about the economy, and I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur believe in this economic project? If you went into any financial institution and sat in front of a first-year bank student with a budget with no income, but with a very, very high consumption, then I do not think you would be allowed to run this through. In that case, at least there was a very good incentive to get into a television programme which takes care of sluggish economies. So I just have to repeat my question: does the rapporteur believe in this economic project? The rapporteur must then, in fact, decide whether this is a shorter or a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111633	I would like to thank Henrik Brodersen for commending my abilities as an economist. I must disappoint, however, by saying that my primary achievement as an economist was when I worked for the investment bank Lehman Brothers, which failed with a world crisis, so I do not know if I am the right one to ask. But at least I think, and I think I have said that a few times already, that something needs to be done about the Greenlandic infrastructure, at least when it comes to flying directly to, for example. Illulissat or Nuuk. The fact that you always have to pass Kangerlussuaq is therefore a serious obstacle to the development of the Greenlandic economy. Then you can, as I said to Mr. Søren Espersen, discuss how it should be done and whether the approach that autonomy is looking at now is the most profitable one. There is at least one Danish investment company that is interested in helping to finance it. So I think we can clearly look at how these projects are to be financed, but I believe that there has to be a development of the Greenlandic infrastructure when it comes to airports if you want to ensure a better Greenlandic economy. I think that is also something that will strengthen the Kingdom community, because it will also make it easier for Danes to visit Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111750	Thank you. Last question from Mr. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111754	Thank you. People have a desire to travel, and now most of those who want to have been to Bali, the Galapagos Islands and all sorts of other places, and you also look up to see the beautiful, magnificent country that Greenland actually is. But when you can get there quickly, if these airports are built there may also be the advantage that you can get out of there quickly. Because what are all these people that we are now flying into Greenland actually going to do while they're there? After all, there is no plan for where to spend the night and what is of different experience possibilities besides of course being able to photograph the magnificent nature that is in Greenland. That's what we're calling for. One is that it is invested so massively in that it must be possible to fly to and from Greenland, but one can ask where the rest of the experience is besides of course photographing ice cream and it is beautiful, I recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111856	I now think that Iceland as an example shows that with very high growth a tourism economy can be expanded, including the construction of hotels, etc. Illulissat, the city would build the necessary hotels etc. In other words, there are already a number of cruise ships which are passing by and which may not have been on the same scale five or ten years ago. Tourism is something that will benefit the Greenlandic economy. I do not see it as an obstacle to Greenland's economy that there should be more tourists. On the contrary, I would see that as something positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111940	Thank you, and that was the end of the questioning round. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119111959	There is no doubt that the Danish People's Party has almost always, even before the Self-Government Act, thought that Greenland should be placed under administration. One has some idea that it is best for Greenland that they be put under administration. And then I don't really care what Mr. Kim says. Søren Espersen thinks about my choice of words in this context. It's not a way forward, it's a way backwards. In the Enhedslisten we recognise the right of every people to self-determination and democracy. We recognise the provision of the Self-Government Act that Greenland can decide autonomy. On the way, they can take back a number of matters whenever they wish. We also recognise Denmark's obligations under international law to facilitate such a development in accordance with UN resolutions, to put it a little more clearly than the rather strange confusion of statements in this debate. Democracy and self-determination are the only sustainable path to development, including economic ones. We welcome the work of the Constitutional Commission and trust that it can be done in a good and democratic way for the benefit of Greenland. We recognise that Greenland's society has serious economic and social problems, but also sees positive things. And I think it is a little sad to hear a debate where we should always only mention the negative things when there is actually momentum in a number of areas in Greenland. Fishing is in good development. Air Greenland, when we are talking about aircraft and such things, contributes positively to the Greenland economy as one of the few major airlines. Tourism is developing and even developing in relation to previous rapid development, I would say, and there is huge potential, as has already been mentioned. The municipalities have launched an effort in the social field, and especially in the area of children, it is necessary, and it is also positive to see that some areas have in fact now been addressed which have not received the necessary interest before. The education system is developing. And that is how we could continue to mention areas if we wanted to be nuanced and sober, Mr President. Søren Espersen. We believe in the Enhedslisten that the kingdom must contribute financially and otherwise if Greenland asks us to. It's a solidarity we promised each other when we made the kingdom community. We welcome Greenland's commitment to foreign policy and security policy in the debates and seek influence. Greenland makes a very positive contribution to the Kingdom's foreign policy in many areas, and it is very productive, not least in the question of the Arctic. Imagine what Denmark would be in the Arctic debate if it weren't because we were in a community with Greenland; we would have no access whatsoever to the discussion and the solutions that might come out of it. We will support Greenland's path to independence and expect the Kingdom community's solidarity aid to that process. We can imagine a future kingdom community between three independent countries when the Faroe Islands and Greenland decide to become independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119112334	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119112335	Thank you. I just need to get something straight. So, Denmark must help if the Greenlanders ask for it. Now I myself have been sitting in the Greenlandic-Danish Committee of Autonomy for a long time, together with Mr. Christian Juhl's party colleague Line Barfod, and there was nothing about it. Law at the request of the Greenlanders established that the block subsidy was fixed on 2009 money. There was nothing with extra help. We wondered why the Greenlanders wanted this, but we agreed, of course, to what the Self-Government Commission did. Mr. Christian Juhl, that Greenland must also be helped financially after it has gained independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119112422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119112424	I believe that, in addition to the block subsidy, we must help to the extent necessary. And so do we today in a number of areas. After all, the Prime Minister's statement was precisely an outline of the areas on which a figure is not usually put, but which are also, what to call it, an aid to state-building. After independence, it may also be necessary for the Kingdom community to continue and for us to help each other there in solidarity. I also believe that there is enormous help going on from Greenland to Denmark at the moment, for example. in connection with the initiatives in the Arctic, where Denmark gets a location that we wouldn't even have if we didn't have Greenland in the Kingdom Community. So in this way it goes both ways, and I think it should also do so according to independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119112512	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119112514	After all, the areas mentioned by the Prime Minister, which cost money, are those which have not yet been taken over by Greenland's self-government. This has nothing to do with the block grant. Well, the things that haven't been taken home, of course, the state finances. But that is not what we are talking about, it is the block grant. What was mentioned as an example of Denmark doing a whole lot of things, for example. The presence of the fleet in Greenland, which is also of great civil importance. But I have to make it quite clear: When Greenland has gained independence, Denmark must continue to finance Greenland in the view of the Enhedslisten. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119112551	Denmark should not finance Greenland, and I do not believe that Greenland is asking for independence until the day when they have an economy in balance and when they can decide to do so themselves, for example. like the Faroe Islands are currently doing where they say they want to be free of support from Denmark, because support money is not natural money, and therefore it is not good for the country's development. After all, this is a very, very positive situation, and I believe that Greenland will also find itself in that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119112619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119112635	Thank you for the floor. I think that we all know about having a good friend who suddenly doesn't call quite as much as in the past, and you get the feeling that a friendship is slipping a little into the sand, but that, unfortunately, you don't quite know why. I can also get that feeling when I follow the debate on Greenlandic independence, because on the one hand I can easily understand the desire to step its very own path, but on the other hand I believe that both Greenland and Denmark can continue to benefit from close cooperation and to go hand in hand with what is now once called the Kingdom Community. As a representative of a party created at a breaking-out and a desire for more freedom and independence, I and the Liberal Alliance naturally want to support the desire of the Greenlandic people for the same thing. It is vital for us that the process for the development of the Kingdom community, which is here and which will also take place in the future, should take place in respect of the constitution and the agreements that we have already concluded with Greenland's self-government. In the Liberal Alliance, moreover, we want continued constructive cooperation throughout the Kingdom community. We want to maintain a strong and cooperative Kingdom Community, which means that we also support the desire in Greenland for greater autonomy. It is in this spirit that we must develop continued cooperation in the Kingdom community. We must respect each other and we must cooperate in the many areas where Greenland and Denmark share common interests. The Liberal Alliance believes that, as Greenland and Denmark wish and are prepared to do so, we are transferring more responsibility and more administrative tasks to the autonomy of Greenland. But I also believe that there is a fall group that we must take great care of, because the mere fact that responsibility has been transferred should not prevent us from still helping each other, giving each other good advice and lovingly pulling each other off the edge of the abyss if we have come a little too close. That's what good friends do. From the Danish side, we must support economic development in Greenland towards a liberal open market, so that the Greenlandic community is best geared to a possible future increase in autonomy. For constitutional independence will also mean economic independence, and in that case Greenland will have to be prepared to be able to cope without the financial subsidies that are being obtained today. We have just entered the hundredth anniversary of Iceland's independence, and on this occasion I think it is obvious to draw parallels and learn lessons from the experiences we have had both before and after 1918. Iceland's independence stands for me today, not as a clash with the past, but as the start of a new and strengthened cultural and economic community with mutual respect. That is what I and the Liberal Alliance want and hope for the continued cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. Then I would just like to say in conclusion that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption which has been read out in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113033	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113039	Iceland took full independence while Denmark was occupied. I do not think that was very well done, but let it be said that that is not what we are discussing today. The rapporteur is talking about greater autonomy, and I would like to ask for a definition of it, because there are a number of areas that Greenland can take over as soon as it wishes. So this is not something we should give Greenland. You can take that. There are then some things that are excluded; it is the EEAS, defense and security and the Supreme Court. There are a few things that cannot be taken over unless you become an independent country. So what is meant by the concept of increased autonomy? We're talking about either-or here, not increasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113123	In fact, I think we can talk here about an increased degree of autonomy and transfer of several administrative areas, and that what I also said is done in a mutual understanding when Greenland is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113141	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113142	No one disputes Greenland's right to take exactly the areas home as they wish. It was grounded in the self-government law, so it's not that we're very generous because it's happening. So, if Greenland wants to take those areas home, you can do it, and then you probably have the economy to do it. So it's no part of giving. I just want to make it clear that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113207	I'm very fond of Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen's clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113212	The next question is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113216	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. And Happy New Year to Mr. Carsten Bach. I think that was a very good introduction, as the rapporteur had, in that we might see it as a good friend slipping away a little and where it feels weird what happens to this relationship. Then I got a picture that if the good friend can experience himself time and time again being talked about generalizing and condescending on television, there may be a reason why the good friend becomes a little more reluctant to maintain a relationship. Can the rapporteur recognise that we in Parliament do not mean the rapporteur, because I really think it was a very good and actually progressive speech and attitude on the subject, as the rapporteur put it today, but the government constellation and the support party that has today put this question should perhaps have a greater degree of equal and respectful dialogue when we talk about the future cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113323	In every context, we must have an equal and respectful tone when we talk about all friendly relationships. It doesn't really matter whether it's our relationship with the Greenlandic people or whether it's our relationship with other people. In fact, I also think that in the dialogue and debate in the Folketing there is, to a large extent, mutual respect and so on. So I don't recognize the picture that I think the questioner was trying to draw just before.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113359	The next question is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113403	I myself believe that Greenland will become independent; it is only a matter of time. And when we talk about the block grant from Denmark to Greenland, what will happen, what will not happen, and one thing with the other, I would say that I think it is extremely important that we also recognise and respect the situation that the majority of Greenland wants independence. And that's where the road for Greenland leads. It will also be appropriate for the Folketing to follow what will happen after Greenland has reached where the economy is so strong that we start to hold negotiations between Greenland and Denmark and discuss what will happen thereafter. I am calling for such a little debate about what a win-win situation can be for both Denmark and Greenland when we get there, instead of seeing Greenland as a country that cannot stand on its own feet because of the block subsidy. How about looking at what opportunities Denmark has to be part of Greenland's future development, so that you might see a win-win situation? What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113503	In other words, all development is, you might say, like that per year. definition a matter of time. And the development that I also described, and which I see before me, because the relationship between Greenland and Denmark is, after all, an increased degree of autonomy. And at some point, as I also said, there may be a situation where the Greenlandic people want to take the final step forward to complete independence. And then we'll have to take it when the time comes. The questioner may also have noticed that I referred to the edge of the abyss. Because I think that it has also been put forward in the past, and as has been pointed out, among other things. by economic presentations and other means that there are some conditions in Greenland's society and some decisions that have been made in Greenland, which may lack a certain amount of solidity in terms of financial responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113607	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113608	Financial responsibility is Greenland's path to a stronger economy. Everyone agrees whether it is here in the Folketing or in Greenland. We agree that Greenland needs a stronger economy than we do today. Having said that, Denmark is also aware that Greenland has a great potential for economic progress through investments that are necessary. Perhaps it could be a good idea for Denmark also to think about the opportunities that Greenland has, whether it is politically moving towards independence, and also to contribute to investing for the benefit of our partnership and equality for the future. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113646-2	The developments I also described in my rapporteur's speech point to a more liberal and open economy, independent of state subsidies and other things. I think it is quite natural and there are certainly a number of potentials for economic development in Greenland. I am not going to stand here as a politician and be wise in what areas it would be best for Greenlandic society to focus on. I think there are others who are far better at that than I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113721	Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113724	Thank you. Let us think about the idea that we are making it clear that it is still possible, that this is what the people of Greenland want and that this is what we are working towards. Of course, there is no plan for it, and you do not quite know where it ends up. But let us now think about the idea that Greenland will be independent in 5, 10, 20 years' time, how does the rapporteur view the issue of handling the things that Denmark is doing now and here I am thinking in particular of everything with coast guarding, defence, etc. etc.? Will it still be under Danish auspices? Will it be under NATO? Will it be anyone else who should take over these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113815-2	After all, it can be very difficult to speculate about the tasks in Greenlandic society to be carried out far away in the future. Now I allowed myself to compare a tiny bit with Iceland in my speech. Now the questioner himself mentions NATO in this context, and perhaps we could also try to draw a parallel to Iceland. Now I'm just guessing like another fortune teller about something that is probably a long way off in the future, and I don't think that's what we're gonna spend our time on here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113853	Sir. The brother.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113854	No, but this is an important subject after all. Surely no one could imagine that there was such a large area as completely unguarded an area as large as no one took care of. The Americans are very, very happy that Denmark solves the tasks we do up there because they are then free of it. But I am also of the pretty firm belief that if we sailed the last ship away from Greenland at 8:00. 12.00, then the Americans would sail a new quarter over. No one is interested in such a large, strategically important land area being completely unguarded. What does the rapporteur think this could lead to?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119113946	Well, I am the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance in Greenland. I am not a fortune-telling woman, and I cannot and will not stand on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and predict a development that no one knows and which is badly set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114003	With that, we can thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and move on to the alternative rapporteur, Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114014	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement on the work of the Greenland Constitutional Commission. In the alternative, we are following the work of the Commission with great interest, and we are also waiting for a result with excitement. We must respect the democratic processes of Greenlandic self-government, which is why the alternative is favourable to Greenland's work on a constitution. We also support the adoption text, which was read today by Mrs Karin Gaardsted. We would also call for the Danish Parliament to maintain its focus on creating economic, social and environmental sustainable development in Greenland, where we do not lose sight of the block grant. I'll get back to that. The alternative still wants reconciliation in Greenland and between Greenland and Denmark. It is important that the Folketing recognises the aim of the Self-Government Act to promote equality and increased Greenlandic self-determination. That process needs to be supported. If Denmark continues to want a kingdom community in the future, albeit on different terms than we know it today, we should focus on a good dialogue between Greenland and Denmark, where a fundamental principle must be equality. In the Kingdom Community we have a historical, identity and cultural common wealth, but we also have a great deal that we do not agree on and that we do not share. We should consider that an enrichment. The alternative is to have a spacious kingdom community where diversity is a strength, and that is why we support the desire for a Greenlandic voice. I have noted that the constitutional work is going on in two stages, which is why it is also important to deal with the work of the Constitutional Commission as a matter of strengthening democracy in the Kingdom community and strengthening democracy in Greenland. In the constitutional work, therefore, inclusion is crucial, so that the Greenlandic people have an experience of being heard, that they are talked to and involved and not just talked about. In this way, the work of the Constitutional Commission can be an important contribution to democracy, to co-ownership and to community in Greenland, and we believe that this is worthwhile on the way forward. In Denmark, we should consider the Constitutional Commission as a good opportunity to listen to the Greenlandic people, listen to the Greenlandic politicians to be informed about how Greenlanders understand themselves and their position, including what strengths and challenges they themselves believe to have. There I would like to thank my colleague Sjúrður Skaale for having previously spoken that he is experiencing a generalisation in the Folketing about Greenland, Greenlandic parliamentary politicians and the Greenlandic people, and I think that undermines the equality and progressive debate that we should have together. In addition, the rapporteur for DF focused on an educational and social area that was horrible. I do not know whether these were the words used by the rapporteur, but I do not think it reflects reality either, because we can see that the attention that Greenland's parliament and politicians have in the areas actually takes up a lot more than the attention to a constitution. When I look at the budgets of the self-government, I also see an awareness that reflects that over 50%. are allocated to education, to social areas, and it is excluded from general public services. The implementation of the Self-Government Act is still ongoing, and there is still a great deal of political work to be done in Greenland and Denmark before the Self-Government Act is fully implemented. And here we are talking about a work where Denmark should support a development in Greenland that promotes a higher degree of independence. Greenland also has a number of challenges in creating a self-sustaining economy, but, as I said earlier, there are many good projects and initiatives in Greenland that are not allowed to be involved in the debate. The clear focus on the block grant is not fruitful. And there I am actually pleased that the rapporteur from the Left can go in and argue that it may well be that the financing of, for example, airport expansion needs to be considered, but that the need for us to expand, the need for us to take care of the infrastructure in Greenland in relation to tourism, is something that we must speak in favour of. We should focus more on actions such as a common Greenlandic-Danish investment fund that can support and promote development potentials in Greenland such as the aforementioned tourism, research and use of minerals. It must always be our concern to work together to create and enable new solutions within a sustainable economy and development, where we also remember and take into account future generations of Greenlanders in Greenland as well as future generations of Greenlanders in Denmark. In conclusion, the alternative is enthusiastic about the Greenlandic courage and the Greenlandic hope, and we recognise the nation building that is under way. We want a positive and sustainable future for Greenland within a new framework and hope that we can develop an even stronger community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114620	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114622	It is just the thing about airports and tourists that will then flow to when they are built. I just want to say that if tourists want to go to Greenland for a few days, they don't care about changing planes. There are hundreds of thousands of Danes who change planes when they go to the small Greek islands of the Aegean, etc. You're happy to do that. I was supposed to change planes when I was going to Michigan, U.S.A. It was annoying, but I got off anyway. So let's just leave it alone. It is said that this is the way the Greenlanders are heard and that we must listen to the people of Greenland, and I would like to ask: when in recent times has the people of Greenland not been consulted? Which Danish government has not listened to Greenland in recent times? It is not fair to portray it as if someone is shouting, and then nobody here in Denmark wants to listen. That's not fair. I just want to hear: when has it happened that a Danish government in recent times has not listened to Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114718-2	Let me start with the first, that is, the comment by the rapporteur that tourists are happy to change flights. So, I do not know what the rapporteur is basing that position on. Is that your own attitude? Okay, good. Secondly, there are several examples of Greenland not being sufficiently involved, whether it is in relation to the International Whaling Commission or other measures. However, I often hear rapporteurs express the wish for greater involvement of Greenland and the Greenlandic mandates in the work. I also believe that we can see that in the negotiations on Thulebase there has been a need for much greater transparency and a much greater responsibility on the part of Denmark to enter into a real negotiation before we saw that agreement and those contracts being given to the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114818	I should just like to remind you that as far as the direct charges are concerned, the rapporteur must remember that. Thank you. Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114825	The government and parliament listened to the Greenlanders when they wanted home rule in the late 1970s. And when they wanted autonomy in 2009, people were listened to. Otherwise, the Danish Government follows to the letter the things put into the self-government law, and every time there is an opportunity to bring Greenlandic politicians or leading ministers in Greenland to negotiations that affect Greenland, it happens. It is, as many have described it, a sunshine story to what extent Denmark and the state listen to the kingdom community. So I just want to say again that this is a totally unfair description of what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114918-2	I think that's more of a comment. Thank you. And I'm sorry, I charged the rapporteur with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114925	Okay. The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114929	There was just one paragraph in Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen's speech, I noticed, and I just need to be updated about the alternative's environmental policy. Did I really hear that the alternative supports Greenland spending 25%. of their national product on building four airports?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119114949	No, I have to say that the alternative does not support. However, we support the planning of an extension of the infrastructure. So, the way it's financed, like Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth also mentioned, is, of course, something that Greenland should discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115011	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115013	So I don't think that Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen has to let go that way. So, the rapporteur specifically mentioned the four airports. If you're trying to get rid of something about the fact that there was something about funding, I have to say that's not what I'm asking. I am asking about the environmental policy of the alternative. In other words, regardless of the financing, does the Alternative now believe that it is a good idea to build four new airports in Greenland with the dramatic environmental consequences of expanding airports? Yes, it is quite okay to mean it, and I hear Greenlandic politicians mean it, but does the alternative think that this is the way to go such an environmental policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115043	Thank you for the question. If I said that in my rapporteur's speech, I would like to express my regret, because not all four airports are the ones we support. We support an extension where it makes sense to expand tourism in Greenland. In relation to aviation and environmental challenges, the rapporteur is also quite right: we do not believe that it is just aviation that should save Greenland's economy at the expense of the environment. We don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115111	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115112	Thank you. To follow up on Mr. Karsten Hønge's question: When the alternative thinks that it is only the initiatives that make sense, you like to think you want to support, what are some airport projects that, in the alternative, do not make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115131	As I said before: if I have said that it is all four projects that we supported, then I would be very sorry. That's not what I meant. However, I believe that we should look at enlargement in relation to, for example, enlargement. Nuuk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115149	Is it then the three other projects besides Nuuk, which are thought to make no sense and so it is believed that the Greenlanders should quit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115158	No, I can't say that now. It's not my decision either. I support extending and thinking in the element of airport infrastructure in terms of expanding their tourism. But it's not my decision, so I'm not gonna make a recommendation. And, as I said, if I have supported in my rapporteur's speech that it was all four airports that should have a stamp from here, then I am sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115226	The next question is Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115231	The Greenland economy needs new revenue and new income for the national treasury so that we can promote the welfare society in Greenland much more than we do today, and investment is necessary. We are discussing the process of autonomy today and we are making it sound like we are building airports. But having said that, I think it is important to see it in a wider perspective, and it is that Greenland's overall local government and overall Landsting agree with each other that it is extremely important. The infrastructure in Greenland today is far too weak to help promote Greenland's economic growth to the extent that we want it, and that is why it is important. In order to be able to finance the repatriation of responsibilities that are subject to Danish jurisdiction, it is important that the investments that will ultimately and in the long term bring economic development in Greenland and that we focus on it. Does the rapporteur see a possible win-win situation in this case with possible Danish investors?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115339	Absolutely. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that we should look further at the possibilities for this Greenlandic-Danish investment fund. In addition, there is a great deal of research which can also be supported in Greenland and which can benefit a future economic profit opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115358	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115401	I also think that the Kingdom Community deserves a look at the opportunities that Greenland can bring with it, also at a time when Greenland has gained its independence and that it is beginning to develop the Kingdom Community towards a partnership in other forms. I also think it is important to look at the fact that Greenland will still be there and that Denmark will still be there, whether Greenland has become independent or not. I also think that one can look at each other's potentials to develop, what should one say, the partnership we have built up over the past 300 years, and how can we work towards strengthening each other's positions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115441	I fully agree, and I think it is a fine analogy that it should be a partnership so that we do not push too much national will down on the dialogue. It has to be where we find a balance between finding a partnership and then maintaining some national or national Community interests. So forward-looking, it's an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115515	With this, we thank the Alternative rapporteur and move on to the radical rapporteur, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119115517	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking up this debate again. There are many rapporteurs who have made the comparison that the relationship between Denmark and Greenland can be compared to a friendship where one party is on its way out. I do not really agree with that. I think that if it is to be compared with something at last, it must be compared to a marriage, because on the one hand there is paper on it, we can safely say that there is both a constitution and a self-government law. On the other hand, the two countries have lived together for good and evil for many, many years. Very many Greenlanders and Danes have married and had children. Many of the Greenlanders living in Greenland today have Danish blood in them, and many Danes in Denmark have Greenlandic blood in them. It is then a marriage in which we must say that there is a little crisis, and we must also recognise that one of the spouses is in fact seriously considering leaving the marriage and, at least, wants greater autonomy, perhaps even full autonomy. What does the other mate do in this situation? Yeah, well, I think there's a little something here that Mr. Søren Espersen and Dansk Folkeparti risk playing the role of the wronged, angry husband who believes that by shouting a little louder and threatening a little, he can knock the spouse into place even though I acknowledge that it happens out of great love and veneration and despair that the spouse wants to leave the marriage. But I think that if you were a marriage counselor here and sat down and looked at the relationship, you would try to focus a little on what kind of problems are in the marriage and what kind of problems the other party thinks can be solved by leaving the marriage. If we then jump out of the metaphor and into the serious reality, I really think that some of what Danish and Greenlandic politicians can agree on is that a number of very serious problems are beating on the door of Greenlandic society. After decades we still have both decades in which Denmark had the main responsibility and decades in which the Greenlanders have had the main responsibility for social conditions in Greenland, which none of us can stand to look at. Too many children have serious problems. We have the most classic problem in the education system, and we have investments which, despite obvious opportunities, are still waiting for them. I therefore share the view expressed by several of the rapporteurs today that divorce will not solve any of the problems in itself. I also believe that better cooperation in the Kingdom Community has a much greater chance of solving many of these challenges. However, what must be our task as Danish politicians is, perhaps also a little more offensive than we have been used to, to convince our Greenlandic spouse that this is indeed the case. I think we are somehow partly responsible for not moving anymore. It has also been a code when I was Minister for Foreign Affairs that we wanted to put the right of initiative in Greenland, with Greenland politicians, to develop and strengthen the Kingdom community, also with a view to solving some of the challenges we see here. However, I do not think that much has happened about that strategy, and perhaps it is time that we, who wish the Kingdom community well and wish it well, also try to make some suggestions on how to strengthen the marriage, strengthening the Kingdom community, could actually address some of the issues that are so important to the Greenlanders. I personally am convinced that if Greenland wants greater autonomy and it is the Greenlanders in their right to do so and wants to overcome the problems they are struggling with today, then the way in the first place is through strengthened cooperation with Denmark, not the opposite way. But it doesn't help much that we have that attitude in Denmark if Greenland, the Greenlandic people and the Greenlandic politicians do not have that attitude, which is why I would like to have a debate here in the Danish Parliament and perhaps the Prime Minister will start it today. I know that the government, for example. works with an investment fund that we also worked with. It's been on the road for a long time. It had already been when I was sitting there as Secretary of State, but there are such things that we've been talking about for a long time, and where you think: Ahr, couldn't we just get that ball rolled off? We have talked about the challenges for a number of Greenlandic children at the end of the serious reports that came up. How far have we come with increased resources for the police? How far have we come by taking initiatives? How far have Greenlandic politicians come here? So a little more honest talk, a little more focus on the challenges that will make Greenland a better place to live, may bring out all the parties and make the marriage more happy before it ends up in a divorce that could basically well end up making the problems bigger and not less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120052	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120057	Thank you very much to the Radical Left rapporteur. I very much agree with many of the things that came out in the speech, and I myself, when I have been around to make presentations in Denmark about Greenland, used this picture with that it is a relationship where one side has a leg on its way out of the door, and where it can be difficult for the other party to engage and know where Greenland is actually relative to, for example. These 32 areas. Is it some people you want to take home in a short period of time, or are they some people you really want to maintain, as things are right now, just in a different political form? Personally, I think it is important that, if you want self-government and the relationship that now exists in the Kingdom community, you consider it to be a wheel. It is a wheel that must always be in operation, and I think it is extremely important that you also look at what these are for some areas that Greenland could take home. It may not be the big, heavy areas that should be taken home, but it may also be about looking at some smaller areas, so you keep this wheel going. We could also take an issue such as foreign policy, which I know the rapporteur is also very concerned about, and talk about how we could help to develop Greenland's foreign policy role. I think that is an extremely interesting question. When I'm around giving presentations, I'm often asked: Would it make a difference if Denmark acted differently? I think that is quite an interesting question, because the arrow often points out that Greenland does so and so many things wrong. But it is also quite interesting to look at whether it would make a difference if Denmark acted differently, so I will pass that question on to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120238	That is a number of very good points, I think, which the questioner is raising here. A relationship, including the kind we are talking about here, is something that is constantly evolving. It is a wheel that turns around and you are constantly faced with new conditions outside of marriage and therefore also have to find new ways of acting together. If we talk foreign policy and that is a good example, could it make a difference if Denmark acted differently? So, I really think that when Mrs Aleqa Hammond was President of the Government, we had great success in inviting Greenland to the meetings we had when we had visits by foreign foreign ministers, in whom we knew Greenland had an active interest, also in attracting investment. It was something that made both Greenland and Denmark bigger in those meetings. For many of these countries, among others: Japan, I remember, represented by the Japanese Foreign Minister, had, and has, a great interest in the Arctic. So it made the meeting bigger for Denmark that we could also deliver, if I may say so, a Greenlandic participant at the top level. But that clearly also made the meeting more interesting for the Greenlanders, because Denmark was also a guarantor to Japan that there is a community of kingdoms here that is united, and we are not opposed to Greenland, and we would like to contribute. So this kind of action is a good example, when we take foreign policy, of the fact that the two sides could benefit from each other even more than they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120403	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120410	Thank you very much. In addition to the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland, we have shown a willingness on the part of the Danish Parliament to help strengthen conditions in Greenland. The Danish Parliament helped to allocate 10 million. kr. for e.g. to strengthen efforts for children and young people in recognition that what is going on is really serious compared to at least part of the children and young people who are in Greenland. The vast majority of children in Greenland have a good childhood, fortunately, but there is a group that needs help. I also think that Greenland has had to go through a process of recognition that perhaps there is a need for us to work together with some others to solve some of these challenges. Another example, which the Prime Minister also mentioned, was that of providing administrative assistance, and it can be both financial assistance, but also legal assistance, in relation to the development that Greenland is going through. I think that is quite a good example, and perhaps we could really do something more about developing in cooperation, and you could just ask this question about how we can jointly help to ensure that it is a wheel that is constantly in progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120523	I am very much in agreement, and I am also pleased to have the opportunity to say that I actually also find that there is a little grain in the political debate in Greenland at the moment. There has been a period when it was a very dominant agenda in Greenlandic politics to talk about this independence, while there was actually an amazing little focus on the challenges you had right in front of you. I really think that there has been a more constructive tone, and that is also why I think it may be time for Denmark to see, too, to open up a little and share new ideas with the politicians in Greenland who have an interest in it again, based on mutual respect and an understanding that Greenland has new desires for greater autonomy. However, as I have said, it is my conviction and I may feel increasingly that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen too is a good example of the fact that in some areas the way is to strengthen cooperation, so that we can achieve it, even if we want to take back more areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120625	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120627	Thank you. I mean, it gives you certain associations when you're talking about a marriage. In Denmark, at least, we are mostly used to marriages of equal value. I don't know if it could be said that this was a forced marriage, but one could at least say that it was an arranged marriage. In any case, it has not been on an equal basis that it has been concluded. It has been one party that has decided that we are now together, and then it has slowly developed into a more equal relationship in my view. And then I guess it's not bad that one party says, "Hmm, maybe we could be friends without being married, and maybe we could even be better friends without being married." In Denmark, we have a principle that even after a divorce you agree on economic conditions and support each other. Well, I can, for example. I should like to mention children's money and the wealth that has been built up together; it is also something that, after a divorce, may be divided. I mean, there are happy divorces, too. I think that we should look both at the moral and ethical aspects of being equal and then say that if there is an economically strong party and an economically weak party, then we must share the estate in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120749	I think that when it comes to the whole debate on our common history, I will probably place myself and my party in the middle of the debate that has taken place today in the sense that I do not think one should be pale in order to recognise that there are things Denmark could have done better. Denmark has also taken steps and carried out actions that have not benefited Greenland and Greenlandic society, so there is, it can be said, no reason to glorify Denmark's position in this way. But I do not subscribe to that story about Denmark as a big, bad colonial power, which without even involving the Greenlanders has only injured Greenlandic society. A large number of decisions taken in the 20th century were taken after consultation with the Greenlanders, at the request of the Greenlanders. I would also like to say that the vast majority of the decisions taken were made on the basis of the desire to make Greenlandic society good. And that is why I believe that both sides must take care to make it such a very black-and-white matter. In the whole question of the economy, we are probably there, where we must at least see that it is a matter of a very short period of time when, as an independent nation, we can expect to receive very massive financial support. And I don't know if I'm gonna keep wandering around that metaphor, but if we're gonna compare it to a marriage, then after all, such a spouse's contribution is a very, very small part of a divorced's finances.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120933	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119120936	Now I tried to nuance the debate and that is why I mentioned it. Because I sometimes think that we only talk about all the bad things that are in Greenland. I also think that one should try to look at what the possibilities are and where we can support each other. It doesn't have to be with the economy alone, which Mr. Søren Espersen asked about it; it is also the intangible values. In two areas, Greenland places Denmark well and gives Denmark almost invaluable access to influence. I am thinking of the Arctic debate, where Greenland's location gives us an excellent opportunity to interfere in a very, very major political issue in the future and, moreover, to influence that debate, which we do mutually as in an equal marriage. The second is in NATO, where we get a huge goodwill and discount, because the Americans are allowed to be in Pituffik, in other words at Thulebasen. And you can't make up for those things, I can't at least. And that is why I think we should also remember to balance things and say that it may well happen that it is a relatively cheap thing that we help Greenland build up as an independent state, because in return we get a whole lot of the other way, which is hard to make up for money. Personally, I do not think that the Americans should be at Thulebasen, but they are there, and they have given Denmark a huge influence in terms of security since the 1950s.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121058	I very much agree that in this discussion we should not do everything about money. And I also agree with that several times I have said that Greenland makes Denmark bigger and gives us some big foreign policy gains around the world. When it comes to the concrete NATO contributions, I do not know how important Greenland has been. What we have to bear in mind here is that Greenland itself, if you tear yourself loose, must have solved its security situation somehow. It is not only the southern part of the Commonwealth that has been protected by NATO; it has also been the northern part of the Commonwealth. And Greenland is in the world we now live in, quite exposed and therefore needs protection. It is a vast rural area with few people and great geopolitical interests. So I believe that Greenland and Denmark have a common interest in seeking that protection from powers that may not always be good for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121156	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121158	Thanks for the post. In fact, I agree with part of what was said. Before I ask my question, I would like to say that ironically, the Act of Self-Government did in fact put Greenland at a worse economic level than before. We got a blocked block grant where it has previously been negotiated with the Danish Finance Minister. In the bad years, more was received and the reclaimed areas were financed by Denmark. They do not do so under the Act of Self-Government. So it was really economically the wrong way to go. I would just like to say to what was said about the investment fund, the Danish-Greenland investment fund, that I have repeatedly heard the Prime Minister state that we would like to participate in a Danish-Greenland investment fund, but that it must be the Greenlanders who are taking the initiative. Isn't it fair to say that that doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121248	In relation to the first, I can fully confirm that it is true that the self-government law placed Greenland at a disadvantage in economic terms. I don't know if it's necessarily a bad thing. Well, my aim is not to give as much financial support to Greenland as possible. I think it is a noble objective to have Greenland continuously be able to stand on more independent economic feet. I understand the Greenlandic wish, and I also want us to contribute to Greenland moving in that direction. But we can all see that it is not quite easy. This is then another discussion. Then it is also true that Denmark has for some time signalled a desire to discuss this question, but one can of course also ask if there is no immediate response from Greenlandic society to that invitation, whether it is because there is a lack of interest, or that is because there is also a little discussion in Greenlandic society about whether this is something they should or should not. One might also ask whether Denmark would perhaps have an interest in going one step further, if I may say so, in the practicalisation of how such a thing might look than we are doing at the moment, and invite some other types of Greenlandic partners to a discussion about it than we are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121400	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121401	Now it has to be said that in relation to the Self-Government Act I was part of it myself, it was Greenland's wish that the block grant should be fixed on 2009 money. It was in a situation where there was a huge euphoria about all the oil billions now to be served. That was what was absolutely crucial, and it was something that we in our party opposed in the middle of such a situation where people in Greenland were told that there were oil resources for 10,000 billion. kr. on the east coast of Greenland, and what would you do with a little silly block grant? That was the mood at the time, and I remember that very, very clearly. But if all of this doesn't happen, what is it really that Denmark has to do to solve this situation in another way besides telling Greenland's government: you have to do this and fix these things, otherwise you can get into an economic collapse? Are we just gonna stand by and watch?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121458	That is what I am trying to say: I also think we could act more actively, but just shouting a little louder, I think, does not solve the problem here. Let us take some concrete examples, because what we may sometimes miss in this debate is to become very concrete. Now we have discussed four airports here today. My personal conviction, regardless of what I think about the airports, is that the opportunity to attract private investors to them appears to be very, very small, because profitability seems to be not very high. In other words, the Greenlandic Government is supposed to hit a wall in this matter because it cannot build those airports. There have been some rather interesting suggestions from different places. Among other things: Minik Rosing has said: Well, if what we are going to do is try like a little to copy the Icelandic adventure and get a lot of tourists, who are going to Iceland anyway, to also fly over Greenland and thereby boost a new opportunity for tourism, then it could be that instead of having to build a great hotel at some of the airports we already have and where you can reasonably easily get to. At any rate, it is cheaper than having to build four new airports, and it will probably also be easier to attract private investors. Sometimes we also need to be very specific: what can we do to bring together some private investors? Perhaps we can also help a little from the state side and make Greenland an offer that is so good that you can hardly say no to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121632	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121635	Now it is not the case that Greenland is merely looking at economic problems, nor is it the case that Greenland's only political focus is to have autonomy introduced as quickly as possible at the expense of children and education. The debate is much more nuanced than the highlights we have heard today. I also think it is incredibly important to talk about marriage, that Greenland says very clearly that you are not in favour of forced marriage, but since you are in a marriage, it is also important to remember to flirt with each other and to ensure that the marriage is worth perpetuating. That is why I think that we should always ensure that the 32 areas of responsibility which are subject to Danish jurisdiction are also at the level that is worthy of a marriage. I also think that a little extra hard work could be done here in the Danish marriage and ensure that the 32 matters are at a level of marital dignity, so that at least there is peace in the marriage so far. How can we strengthen marriage? I ask the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121747	I hope I was able to say that I also see a greater nuance in the political debate in Greenland and that several areas will be opened up. In fact, I very much agree that flirting is a good thing in a marriage, and I also acknowledge that Denmark obviously has a responsibility for the 32 areas that we have. But I must say that I also believe that, with the permission of the President, I will go so far as to say that in a marriage one might also expect it to go a little further than flirting and that this is why I think that some of what Denmark could do here was to say: are there any concrete initiatives and projects that we could jointly undertake and which it is difficult for Greenland to lift alone qua the size of the economy in Greenland, but which one could well create interest in Danish investors, perhaps Nordic investors and European investors? It doesn't all have to be Danish. There's no reason for that, but Denmark might be able to initiate some investments and some initiatives in which Greenland could have an obvious interest. What I am really calling for is that we do not have such a great fear of contact in Denmark to perhaps become concrete in the things we are proposing to Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121858	Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121900	Let us say, then, that Greenland will become independent within the foreseeable future. The view on the Arctic is becoming quite different worldwide right now, and the Arctic is going to have a major impact on foreign policy, which Denmark also recognises it will have. Where does the rapporteur see Denmark in the new Arctic when Greenland has become independent?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119121927	Yeah, that's kind of hard to imagine. It is clear that if Greenland chooses to become a hundred percent independent, and Greenland is in its right to do so, then Denmark will no longer be an Arctic state legally. We will of course have a long history and thus strong attitudes and knowledge that we can contribute to the great world, but Greenland will, for example, be able to contribute. even and alone had to negotiate the division of the Ice Sea with Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122001	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122004	Thank you. I think it was a fine, balanced speech, and the speaker spoke a lot both in his answers and in his speech that there should not be so much concern on the Danish side about Greenland that one should dare to propose things to Greenland, and that Danish politicians should be more offensive in the debate on Greenlandic relations. What is the rapporteur's view of this? What legitimizes such a more offensive approach must surely be the financial transfers from Denmark to Greenland with the money follows the right to have opinions. Does the rapporteur think that the transfers going from Denmark to Greenland should be subject to conditions, or how does the rapporteur think this should be done if it is not just a debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122101	When I say offensive, I mean positive offensive, i.e. not towards Greenland. What I imagine is whether you can come out with a number of initiatives that will immediately benefit both Greenland and Denmark. We often talk about this with mutual respect and mutual equality, and it might be that we should take it a little more literally. The projects I am talking about here are something that both Greenland and Denmark will benefit from both economically and politically, regardless of what we think about block grants and independence etc. I think that if you focused a little more on this type of cooperation and a little less on the very heavy discussion about money and so on, it could be that it could give a little renewal in the relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122149	I'll just make one last comment. I agree with the rapporteur. I personally find it difficult to see that Greenland should become more free, more rich, more secure by secession, and that is why I think it is a terribly unfortunate course that the debate takes when one party says secession and the other says suspension of the home regime, because that does not lead to anything. That is why I very much welcome initiatives which talk about something concrete, something substantive, something substantive, something pragmatic rather than the very ideological course that I believe leads to a black hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122227	Thank you very much. I am also looking forward to discussing the possibilities for joint projects for the benefit of both parties with the Faroe Islands as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122237	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard. We're gonna move on, and then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122245	The Kingdom Community allows three small peoples, three small nations, to lean on each other, and if we want, the Kingdom Community can be a great partnership between equals. It is clear that we differ from each other, but there is also much that binds us together. Differences need not mean contradictions and problems, either within Denmark or between countries. Differences between peoples can lead to mutual inspiration and shared enrichment. One plus one plus one doesn't just have to give three, it can give both four and five, and I find that the kingdom community actually offers opportunities for common benefits. Narrow-minded nationalism dumbens, no matter where and when you encounter it, and I actually think that by following the Greenlandic debate I am a little too often encountering nationalist populism. So let us help each other in the process of independence for both the Faroe Islands and Greenland, if that is a widespread desire of a majority. Let's see how far the ice holds, if I may say so. I believe that it will provide the best solutions if such major decisions on independence are based on a solid majority. Otherwise, you just run the risk of the communities being disengaged. There are, of course, regular challenges in the cooperation, but I think we need to practice solving them rather than breaking up the Kingdom community. There are bright points in Greenland's business and economy, but at the same time there are almost incalculable economic and social challenges, and I am actually often surprised that the discussion about the speed of the movement towards independence fills so much. These are important debates, but what we are discussing too little is that Greenland is steadily moving towards an economic concrete wall. Greenlandic society faces dramatic social challenges every day. Thousands of children grow up under totally unacceptable conditions; far too few young people in Greenland get an education; and while that happens right before our eyes, I think a disproportionate proportion of the time and energy goes on to discuss other themes, such as: the speed of the movement towards independence. Once again, as a socialist, I would call for greater attention to be paid to inequality, class society, social tragedies, and for too few people in Greenland to receive an education. I wish Greenland every success on the road to independence, but the most important thing must surely be real independence and independence, and it just does not make sense if, at the same time, you do not have a solid economic foundation, a well-educated population and a social reality that binds countries and peoples together. Selfishness is a nice headline, it's a beautiful dream, but it has to be more than paper and dream. I am probably even more concerned about the reality that every day means so much to the young person without education, to the many children and young people at risk, to the hard-working wage worker, to the inequality in the raw Greenlandic class society. I hope that it is the environment and social sustainability that will be landmarks for the whole Kingdom community and also for Greenland. SF supports Greenland's path to independence if it is a strong wish of a majority and if the population is ready to take the consequences with open eyes. But I have to say that I hope that, after all, we can continue to find each other together, and I would very much like to support Mr Tugendhat's report. Martin Lidegaard's wish that we here in the Danish Parliament should play out more actively with initiatives that can just keep the community together, and that through what Mr. Martin Lidegaard said, namely honest talk, can strengthen the community rather than dissolve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122729	Thank you. There is one question from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122733	I think that the SF's rapporteur almost fell into the opposite ditch of what he usually does by talking about an economic wall. Of course, the problems are serious, but they are not insurmountable. I believe that if you listen to the Greenlandic media, there will be at least as much discussion of the economy, the conditions of children, social conditions, inequality and education as there will be discussion of independence. Is it not the case that independence and influence on its own terms are precisely the engine and driving force in building a more sustainable, more equal society and that it should actually go hand in hand? Does the rapporteur really say that we need to continue the current relations between the three parties in order for Greenland to develop?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122847	No, I do not think so, and I think I did a great deal to say that in the SF we support Greenland's path towards greater autonomy and also towards full autonomy. I think it's just a joke if we pretend that independence is just something you decide it's just a paper. One cannot, I think, reasonably discuss a path to independence without also discussing the consequences it will have. Then it's just bullshit, so it's just talk. I am just more concerned with the social reality, which is for so many people in Greenland, and perhaps more concerned with getting those problems solved. But by the way, I have full respect for if you want to go the way of independence in Greenland and if you are willing to take the economic consequences of it with open eyes, and that is, for example, the chairman of SIK in Greenland, Jes Bertelsen. He says very clearly that he is fully aware that this will mean dramatic changes in the economic standard of life in Greenland. But he thinks it's worth it and still wants away independence. My problem is, I think, and I actually follow the Greenlandic debate very closely, including in the Greenlandic media that you do not want to connect the two things. But the two things are connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122954	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119122956	Well then, I think we should also do them the justice that we recognise, after all, that there is a difference between nationalism, which also thrives in Denmark, and national pride and a sense of national independence. The latter, in my opinion, gives a tremendous amount of energy and impetus to a society. The first, nationalism, is a hindrance. The national pride and the desire to decide for themselves in its own areas is, in my opinion, precisely what can bring about changes in both inequality and social and economic problems. That is why we should constantly support both the development of the economy and the development of democracy and the right to decide for ourselves. That is why I also believe that we should focus on both and not just paint a black picture. When we see that some of the things are actually on the way, we must support them more strongly, as the rapporteur himself says. For example: tourism is on its way, rising to 10%. a year. Surely it is better and wiser to take it calmly than, for example, to do so. in Iceland, where it has exploded and where you can hardly keep up with developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119123105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119123106	Well, I can just confirm that SF supports Greenland's path to independence. I do not think, as Enhedslisten, that this national consciousness in itself leads to economic development. But the short answer for me is that in this winter I am more concerned with the fact that today there are lots of Greenlandic children who are cold in Greenland who are not getting enough to eat. There are far too many girls who are subjected to sexual assault. It is a raw social reality that I think we should change while we are sitting here discussing an abstract dream, a paper. Independence and independence are only worth something the day you stand on your own feet or you're just in the pocket of others, and it's not independence. However, I think it is more important to discuss the raw Greenlandic class society today, the failure to children than to discuss the pace at which to move towards independence. This does not mean that I do not think it is important to move towards independence; I might just think that the focus should be somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119123202	With this, we thank the SF rapporteur and move on to the Conservative, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119123213	The Conservative People's Party loves Greenland. It's not something I'm just saying. I really think so. We are very, very proud and happy to be in the Kingdom with Greenland, and thank you for wanting to be with us. It is good that the Danish People's Party is expressing criticism of the economic priorities of the self-government. The Danish People's Party is right in its criticism, but we do not want a conflict between Denmark and Greenland. It would be poisonous for the kingdom community that we ardently want to preserve, and therefore we cannot vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal to put Greenland under administration... If it does not say so, it no longer says so. Then it has been in an earlier draft of a text that Mr. Søren Espersen doesn't. We need to strengthen our Kingdom community to make it stronger. It is important that the peoples of both Greenland and Denmark regard the Kingdom community as an advantage. In this context, we in Denmark have a responsibility to be more interested in Greenland. The Danes must respect the Greenlanders at all times. Denmark's Radio should tell more about Greenland to give the Danes greater knowledge and understanding. The government must fight for Greenland's interests internationally in fisheries negotiations and other matters that affect Greenland. The government must remember that it is not only government for Denmark, but also for Greenland and the Faroe Islands. And here in the Danish Parliament we have to work constantly to involve Greenlandic MPs in matters that are relevant to Greenland, such as defence policy. Greenland, on the other hand, should stop making a lot of unfair accusations against Denmark. One should basically stop blaming Denmark for wanting to preserve the Kingdom community. When Greenlandic politicians refer to Denmark as colonial masters and occupying power, it is both unreasonable and historyless. The Danes have been in Greenland for a very long time, probably as long as the Inuits have the right to be there, and Greenland is not a colony, but part of a community. Economic, educational, practical, defence, security and in almost all other areas one can imagine, the Kingdom community is an advantage for Greenland. There is no doubt about that. Greenland's independence will never be a practical or economic advantage for Greenland, but it is about feelings and identity, and we cannot tell the Greenlanders on the Danish side how they should feel. They can only decide that for themselves. I just think it is worth reminding you that the Scots do not become smaller Scots, even though they are part of Britain. The Danes will not be less Danish by joining the EU, and in the same way the Greenlanders will not be less Greenlandic by being part of the Kingdom Community. You don't lose your own identity because you're part of a larger community. We have no intention of making the Greenlanders Danish, not at all. We want a strong Greenlandic identity and culture and a community of equal people in the Kingdom community. In relation to today's text of adoption, I would like to stress that, of course, the basic law is in force. We cannot adopt anything that is contrary to the Constitution, and that is why Greenland's independence can of course only be achieved through a process here in the Folketing and probably also a constitutional change. This is not something that is just decided, and today's text of adoption does not, of course, change the framework for it. But on the part of the Danish Parliament we have the view that it is no use standing as a brake on a desire for Greenlandic independence. Nothing good will come of this, and this will probably only strengthen the desire for independence. So, with the desire for continued good and equal and constructive cooperation between Denmark and Greenland, I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119123633	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no brief remarks, and then it is Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119123647	Thank you very much. To want to be a master of our own house is for Greenlanders an entirely natural consequence of the political development that we have undergone in Greenland. Over the years, Greenlandic society has gained an increasingly important role in managing its own affairs. This is ensured in close cooperation and in agreement with a large majority here in the Folketing. The desire for independence is a feeling and a process for the Greenlandic people, as it is for many other peoples. That feeling cannot be tamed or silenced by acting paternally, and the last few months of debate about Greenland in Denmark have been marked by cheap populist statements. The Danish People's Party's announcement that the autonomy in Greenland should be suspended does not actually benefit the cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. Personally, I believe that the more the Danish People's Party tries to cover up a Greenlandic desire for independence, the stronger will be the desire for independence, especially among the most fervent self-determinationists. Independence is the goal of a majority of the Greenlandic population, and we have to respect that. Like so many others, I also dream of an independent Greenland sometime in the future. There are also many of us who are concerned about premature and elitist independence. With independence at all costs, we run the risk that those on the edge of society will fall beyond the edge. For Inuit Ataqatigiit, it is crucial that we all bring along, including the weakest in society. A socially and economically sustainable welfare society is the goal, not just an independent society, but an independent welfare society. The democratic understanding, respect for human rights and the security of the individual is one of the finest lessons Greenland has learned from Denmark. Inuit Ataqatigiit works for a stronger economy and a modern Greenlandic society, where more are able to contribute, where we have a view, and where we have constructive cooperation with our partner countries, including with Denmark. Personally, I think it is important that we listen to Economic Councils and to the National Bank when they call for caution in these times of good economic conditions and remind us that there are difficult times ahead for Greenland's economy. Today it can be said that we are on the right track, but there is still a long way to go. There is far from rich to poor in Greenlandic society, we have an economic and social inequality in Greenland that is in line with American inequality. In Inuit Ataqatigiit we work actively to create greater equality in Greenlandic society. We have too many children who are miserable and who live outside their own homes and, as a coalition party, we work for a safe childhood for all children and to ensure some stronger families who take responsibility. Too few people complete primary education and continue to study, which is why it is important for Inuit Ataqatigiit to work for stronger primary schools and to ensure that more people complete an education. If we succeed in Greenland with the necessary priority and with the change that is needed, then the path towards greater autonomy has also been paved. What we do today has a huge impact on tomorrow's Greenland. A number of key areas of society are still under Danish responsibility to this day. Here is a clear task for us in the Folketing: together with Greenland we must strengthen the 32 areas for which we are responsible, and we must increase the standard. That is our commitment and that is our responsibility. Paradoxically, it can be said that a community can only be preserved by loosening the reins. A community of kingdoms can only be justified if both parties approve the grounds, which is why it is crucial that the Danish parties respect the Greenlandic desire for independence and, above all, allow the constitutional debate and the debate at home on independence to be taken first and foremost in Greenland. We cannot and must not rewind time or responsibility. Thank you very much. Inuit Ataqatigiit supports the adoption text put forward by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124127	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124131	Thank you. I think it is quite wrong to criticise the Danish People's Party for warning against an economic collapse in Greenland. So, I would almost say that if you clearly see the collapse ahead, you would almost be a scoundrel if you did not say so, and I can reassure Mrs Chemnitz Larsen that I will continue to say so, even at the risk of my becoming less and less popular in Greenland. I'll take care of it. But I just want to say that if it comes to a vote of independence, I will certainly be in Greenland on a large scale and ensure that a lot of ads are put in against it, just as British politicians did in the Scottish vote. That was exemplary. Of course they got involved. Of course, Welsh and English politicians traveled up to Scotland and thundered against secession. We will, of course, do the same in the event that the unhappy should happen, that there will one day be a referendum. I think it is our duty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124235	Well, at least I'd like to bid you, Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen very warmly welcome to Greenland if we get there. I think it is important that we give peace to this debate. We do not really know what the outcome of the work of the Constitutional Commission will be; we do not know whether it goes one way or the other. After all, it is a question of looking at it at different stages, and that is, of course, the way the debate is going to take place. On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we would really like to see greater involvement of the Greenlandic population, and this is not just about going out and holding a lot of citizens' meetings; it is also about coming out and talking to the young people who are very much the Greenland of the future; it is about going out to high schools; it is about involving them, for example. NAKUUSA, which is a child-rights measure taken with UNICEF, trying to get young people to make their views on independence in the future as well: what kind of thing is it supposed to have?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124331	But independence has, like this discussion, which, in my view, was actually such an economic discussion, but that is fine, and it is also connected. I have also said myself that I was disappointed at how people talked so much about independence when they did not start solving the problems of the country. I would like to say that we are talking about, for example. We have been talking about the Danish-Greenland investment fund for years that the Prime Minister has said on several occasions that we would like to participate in it, but it must be on Greenlandic initiative. Why isn't this happening? Why doesn't Greenland say: let's try to get such an investment fund... maybe a Nordic investment fund... what do I know about starting Christmas? What is it that holds Greenlandic politicians back from something so clearly right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124418	The rapporteur also knows very well that I myself have been in favour of Greenland and Denmark working together to create an investment fund. I have mentioned it repeatedly here from the Parliament's platform. I have also been in dialogue with Naala Suisut that it is Greenland that has to press the button if that is what you want. So I've done what I could, you might say. There are different opinions in Greenland, and of course there is also in a party when it comes to how to cooperate. In relation to an economic collapse, what we in Greenland have called the mouth of death, it is something that very many of us have spoken about. We have recognised that we need to look at the economy and make it better than it is today. We have chosen to share in taking responsibility. I have chosen to terminate my leave from Inatsisartut in order to join in and be a critically constructive voice, which I also believe I am here in the Folketing. I believe that this is very much needed in Inatsisartut, both in terms of the economy and in terms of airports. The first time I made a political speech, I stood in front of 500 people in the hall in Qaqortoq and spoke critically about the planned airport there, because the money for it is money we take from colleges and housing, and these are some things that we know are needed in Greenlandic society. You can't spend the money twice, which is why we have to make the necessary economic priorities, and many of us are in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124540	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124543	I would actually like to start by recognising Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen as one of the Greenlandic politicians, whom I certainly have great respect for, because she is both balanced in her approach, but also dares to talk about the challenges that exist, both in Greenland and in the relationship between Greenland and Denmark, in a, I think, dignified and respectful way. That is why I would also like to ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen a very difficult question on the good speech she has made. So there is now a discussion here in the Danish Parliament about what Denmark could do in order, like constructively, to play a part. And I am one of those who think that we could also do more from the Danish side. How does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen think that such a new, concrete handshake on the Danish side with some concrete investment projects or some concrete initiatives, or what do I know, would be received in Greenland? And is it possible to identify some areas where it could be assumed that it would be received more positively from the political side in Greenland than other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124650	I believe that what is needed in both Greenland and Denmark are bridge-builders, and it is people who want to help promote the things that work well, do even more of it, and help ensure that, like more progressively, closer cooperation is ensured in relation to, among others. these 32 areas, but also in relation to ensuring a stronger economy in Greenlandic society. I think an investment fund is quite, quite obvious to look at. We have proposed an Arctic investment fund where you can look at how you can help attract even more investors, so that you can create a stronger economy in Greenlandic society. I believe this is in both Denmark's interest, but also in Greenland's interest to a great extent. So this is a very specific subject that could be looked at. Then, in relation to the political process, I think that involvement is absolutely essential, that is to restore confidence between Greenland and Denmark. And I fully agree with what the honourable Member said earlier about the fact that we have had a national council in the past, where we have had representatives from Greenland, but we must only acknowledge that because of the political history that has existed, perhaps also in recent times, there has been a crack, one might say, in the confidence that exists between Greenland and Denmark, also politically. And there is a need for some bridge-builders who help to ensure that with concrete measures and by even greater involvement and by solving the reins we have good cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124819	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124820	But then I'd like to ask a bit of a lead follow-up question. I fully agree with the analysis, but so, in relation to the development we are seeing in the Greenlandic debate in this area, is it Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's assessment that it is perhaps now a matter of Greenlandic politics? It is quite true that there is also an intense discussion within Greenland, just as there is in Denmark. However, the question is whether we have a situation now, where, as it were, more than there has been for a long time, there is an opening to perhaps beginning what might be called the era of the bridgebuilders.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119124910	This was, of course, a very important issue, as the rapporteur himself said. I am thinking that we are in an election year, at least in Greenland, there will be elections to Inatsisartut here by November of this year and, as a rule, the tone will also be tightened up for elections, but I think it is really important to hold onto the constructive representatives of Greenland who really want constructive cooperation, which is solution-oriented, and precisely help to ensure that we do even more of that. Because I really wanted there to be bridge builders on one side and on the other side, but I experience a little that when I try to bridge Denmark, I find it a little difficult to find out who is on the other side, who also wants to help build a bridge. I wrote a novel to Politiken here recently to emphasise that we need to be bridge-builders on both sides if we want to ensure that there is good cooperation. And this is actually based on a pragmatic view that we are a kingdom community today, so let us try to make the best of it for both sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125010	Thank you. Then it's mr. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125014	Thanks for a good speech. Much of what we have heard discussed here is based on, if I may say so, the relationship between Denmark and Greenland, but there are not also great potentials for positive economic development and welfare development in Greenland in terms of the opportunities that are opening up in the Arctic gradually, for example. cooperation between the West Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125043	There is no doubt that there is great potential in West Nordic cooperation. I also believe that we can do even more than what we are doing today. I also think that when growth is created in Greenland, it is a positive effect on the partners we have, and it is both within the Western Order, but also in relation to Denmark. In Greenland, there are more and more people talking about us being too few people. We are the world's largest island, but with a very small population. That is why we also sometimes lack labour. In Nuuk, for example, we have. No unemployment. The ones we need are the educated, the skilled. This underlines the positive development in Greenlandic society, and if we want to get even more growth going in Greenland, we also need to look at how we can ensure that we have those competences in cooperation with the partner countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125139	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125142	Now it is often the case that when you live in an area with a challenging terrain, you do not always experience the great understanding in Denmark of how much investment it takes to create a good infrastructure. Here it is easy in a country that is flat as a pancake to build roads. Greenland is huge, and it has not actually developed the infrastructure in terms of airfields for many years. So I assume that it is also a necessary investment that is discussed in order to modernise accessibility in Greenland when discussing aerodromes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125221	That is not quite true, because a few years ago we had a bigger investment in airports, but it has been somewhere else than these three airports that we are talking about today. When I mentioned this with the fact that Qaqortoq airport is a political project, it was in recognition that there is, like, no volume to ensure that you can get some investors from outside who can get their money back, but that it is some money that we ourselves have to put on the table. I think it is important that we do so openly when we engage in major economic investments and that we also know what the consequences are when we make choices. So it's actually more to nuance this view about airports. There are also some critical voices as to whether anything can give the money back to investors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125310	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125312	I am pleased that the rapporteur is talking about constructive cooperation and building bridges from both sides. One of the things that we have talked about a great deal about is precisely the proposal for a common investment fund. I also believe that the rapporteur himself has raised this with the Prime Minister in several of the questions with the Prime Minister, but it is as if there is not much coming from Greenland. On the Danish side, it has been said that this is, of course, something that one is very open to talking about, but can the rapporteur perhaps clarify it a little? What are the reactions from Greenland? What do you think in Greenland about making an initiative yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125350	Thank you very much for the question. I have, of course, discussed this with our Finance Minister, what is called Naalakkersuisoq for finances, and in this way we have been fairly open to it and see it as one of the options that might be available. Right now, we are looking into what other options might be available. It is, of course, the case when we talk about major investments that we must, of course, make up for the conditions imposed by the various investors. No one invests that way for anyone's blue eyes or brown eyes. You do it because you want a return. And if you choose to participate in the creation of an investment fund, you will most likely also have some conditions or criteria that you would like to set up. So it's a complete picture that Naala Suisut is looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125445	Thank you. Well, as I think it was, sir. Martin Lidegaard who said this is something that has been talked about for a very, very long time. And the concerns that the rapporteur has are some that I think could be better addressed in an open dialogue with Denmark. Can we expect a real initiative from Greenland? How far is one in the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125507	I think the Prime Minister might actually be better able to answer that question. I know that there is an ongoing dialogue with the Ministry of Finance, including with regard to a possible investment fund. So there are some things going on. Yes, sometimes things take time in politics, but at least I think it's an important focus to have because it can help strengthen Greenland's economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125527	Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125530	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for the constructive approach to it with long-term perspectives rather than here and now solutions. You might want others to do the same. This debate has been raised at the request of the Danish People's Party, and several people have said: over and over and over again. I can promise from here that we do so constantly, because this is not about Greenland and Greenland's politicians, but about the people of Greenland. There we have an obligation to ensure whether you are in this Parliament or in Greenland. I think that's lame. We have established that 55.7%. Greenland's income is provided by the State. We have made it clear that, in addition to that, there is a large amount of money for all sorts of other things: defence, preparedness, courts, police, etc. In addition, Greenland receives an amount of 217.8 million. EUR 1.6 billion, equivalent to EUR 1.6 billion. kr. It is well over a six-year period, but it is something like 260 million. kr. a year. If you take all these amounts and add them together, then it must be obvious to everyone that, technically speaking, Greenland has already gone bankrupt. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125713	Thank you very much. I will start by answering the last question first. But before that, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for its commitment and for taking this up. I have sometimes also expressed in the press in Greenland a wish that I would like to see more people come into play, because it is important also to emphasise that the Danish People's Party was the only party that voted against the Act of Self-Government here in the Danish Parliament. This block grant thing is nothing new. We have known this for a long time. To say that Greenland is going bankrupt already now, I think it is simply a simplification of the reality that I am experiencing. After all, there is political support for the relationship between Greenland and Denmark to the Self-Government Act, even though the Danish People's Party has chosen not to vote for it. So it is not true that we are moving towards an economic collapse. Yes, in the longer term, we need to ensure that we do not get into the mouths of death, and that is something we have to work on today, which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125825	Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125826	I am merely relying on the fact that one has more expenditure than one has income and that the vast majority of what is being done in Greenland, including investment, is done with the money that comes from outside. The loans that are being raised are at very, very high interest rates compared with the rest of the world, but you get the loans. Why do you do that? It is because those who give Greenland the loans are well aware that Greenland is not allowed to go downside and home as long as they are in union with Denmark. This is the security of the borrowers. I think we should be honest about this and say in the debate: we simply do not have the means to run an independent country. Nevertheless, you drive by 180 per hour, because you will have to succeed in 3 years' time. I think that's scary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119125929	As I have said several times, there are many differences of opinion. Now Henrik Brodersen mentions among other things. I am thinking that I do not necessarily have to stand up for one thing or the other. I'm just saying that I think it's important that the economy is under control, and I think that there is, whether we should have independence in the long run or what should happen. None of us knows the outcome of the work of the Constitutional Commission. I think it is important that we give them peace to do that work. In the meantime, we in the Danish Parliament can do a huge amount of work in relation to these 32 areas, and from Greenland you can do a huge amount of work in terms of strengthening Greenland's economy, and I know that the focus is there too. And yes, it may not go as fast as we want it to go, but that focus is there. Then I would just like to say that Greenland is the world's largest island. We're 56,000 people living there. I am very proud to come from Greenland and be part of the 56,000 people. This requires us to take responsibility, and sometimes we have to look around and say: maybe I have to take responsibility this time. Because that's the way it is in Greenland when we're so few and we live so scattered. It is not an easy solution we have chosen, but it is the solution that we have chosen in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130050	With that we thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. And the next in line is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130105	I already think and feel as a citizen from an independent Greenland, and I am far from being alone about it. My parents grew up at a time when everything about Greenland was decided in the Ministry of Greenland here in Copenhagen. Fortunately, a lot has happened since. I myself was politically active when the autonomy was introduced. I am also convinced that I will see the introduction of independence. The political desire for independence and the secession from Denmark is very strong. It is a process which is not just about economics and block grants. The road to independence is a process that we all help to strengthen, a little like small streams, which gather to a large roaring river that cannot be stopped. The process is seen in the art, in our artists, the songs from our musicians, the tasks from our school students, the specialties from our students, the discussions among the population, the headlines in the newspapers, the interest abroad, and not least in our political efforts to convert to a stronger economy. We, Denmark and Greenland, are very different from each other. We have different languages, different ethnicity, different history and different approaches in terms of the kingdom community. We have many things that bind us together, but there are indeed many things that separate us. The Self-Government Act is a law that Denmark and Greenland have jointly signed a law that both countries can be proud of; a law that is based on understanding Greenland's desire for self-determination; a law that sets the framework for the process. I am very pleased with the self-government law, and I certainly do not intend to support proposals that will in any way roll back the self-government law, nor to support proposals that will put Greenland under administration, because here in Denmark people are not satisfied with the ideas and actions being taken in Greenland. That's not the way the world works. The Kingdom is changing ■ a political change; a change that can also be seen in the economy; a change that can be seen on the agenda both at home and here in Denmark and here in the Chamber today. That Greenland wants to be the master of its own house, solve our own problems, create our own future and emerge strongly from the backlog of colonial times is for me a perfectly natural thing. We will fight our way out of the many challenges we face today: problems that we have all helped to create and that we are all helping to solve; problems that no one can run from and problems for which everyone feels a responsibility. The Greenlandic economy has changed a lot since we introduced home government back in 1979. We were ready for the next step in 2009, when autonomy became a reality. Time has passed very quickly and the desires for our own future as well. We also note that our desire for independence is not always received with Danish kissing and understanding, but instead meets criticism and scepticism. It's okay, too. There must be room for that too. After all, we have a self-government law that both Denmark and Greenland stand together. Anyone who has understood the law of self-government also knows that independence cannot be introduced overnight. There are agreements between Denmark and Greenland that must be followed by a law that requires understanding and respect for priority and direction; a law that respects and recognises the Greenlandic people as a people under international law and with the right to independence. Denmark and Greenland have jointly developed the Self-Government Act, a law that we can all be proud of. There are few places in the world where two nations, in peace and harmony and mutual respect, can cooperate in a secession. It is best practice worldwide that indigenous people around the world admire. We can be proud of that. The economy is, of course, an important factor in the process of combating independence. Greenland itself will have to finance matters which we take over from Denmark also under the self-government agreement. That is why it is important that the economy is as multi-faceted as possible. Our task is to raise the standard of living for everyone in society, but also to finance matters that we want to take home from Denmark. It is a process which is closely linked and which we must always make stronger and more diverse. Today, Greenland is responsible for our 200-mile economic zone, the right to the underground and the right to the income from our living and not living resources. It will play an important role in the economy and thus in the process of independence. I support the text of the adoption, which was read by Mrs Karen Gaardsted, and by Mr Left. Marcus Knuth has been in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130628	Thank you. The first person who has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130634	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am pleased that the rapporteur praises the law of self-government and the agreement on self-government. I believe that, as the situation is today, it can be said at some level that Greenland has the best of both worlds, i.e. a mixture of autonomy in certain areas, while at the same time being part of a community of kingdoms with support, both financially but also in defence and foreign policy, etc. Martin Lidegaard said, and now this is the second time I have highlighted Martin Lidegaard, and it is more by chance that closer cooperation is necessary if you want to move towards independence. However, I also believe that closer cooperation is necessary if we are to strengthen the Kingdom community. That is the direction I would like to see taken. Nevertheless, I believe that closer cooperation is necessary. Does the rapporteur agree with that? I am also thinking of areas such as the Danish language, where I think more could be done to promote it. Because if you are a young person from Greenland who would like to be further educated, then Denmark and the Danish language and the Danish education system are a necessity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130749	I think that if Greenland is to emerge strongly from this community that we have in the Kingdom Community, it is as much a Danish responsibility as it is a Greenlandic one. We have a joint responsibility to ensure that we live up to the commitments we have to each other. As far as independence and the way forward are concerned, we believe that education is one of the ways forward, and I also think that language skills are just as important as anything else that is important in society. Danish is language no. 2 in Greenland and English are language no. 3, and I certainly also think that we need to be more forward in our education system in order to ensure that children's language skills are strong enough for the needs they have and what they want to implement in the future. I also believe that we can still have a very strong kingdom community, even though Greenland is working towards independence. Who says that our kingdom community is becoming weaker because we want independence? We have an obligation to each other, especially with 32 matters that are subject to Denmark, to ensure that they come to a level so that they are on an equal footing with what it is in Denmark. It deserves the Kingdom community, and it also promotes equality. It also promotes mutual respect in order to ensure that the conditions to which you would like to stand up also apply to all parts of the empire.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130910	Thank you. I would just like to say that I hope that the focus will continue to be on the Danish side. Regardless of whether you are in favour of independence or not, I think that there will always be a very, very close link between Denmark and Greenland, including when it comes to education. So to downgrade the Danish language, regardless of one's desire to go one way or the other, I see as something that will be really, really a shame.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119130937-2	I don't think it's downgraded. I think it is because people are being reminded that because they are working towards independence, this does not mean that we do not want to speak Danish. It has nothing to do with it. We can also contact the Danes and say: Why do you not speak fluent English, even if you have had first-class English? So, even if you are taught it, if you do not use it commonly in everyday life, you will soon forget the book. We also see that everywhere else and in all other countries around the world, and so is Danish with us. I only began to speak more Danish after I left home because I did not have the opportunity to practice it, and so I think it is with many families. Despite the desire to be better in a language, it is not every day that it is possible to practice it, and in the end it also goes beyond the level of education of many young people. So yes, it's important, but teaching must be stronger everywhere and not just in the larger cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131033	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131036	Thank you. Can the rapporteur say anything about how she sees the relationship between Denmark and Greenland developing after Greenlandic independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131051	I believe that even when Greenland has become independent, Denmark will also be Greenland's best friend for many, many years. The last 300 years we have had together with Denmark are not just something that you can park to another side. I believe that the competence we have built up is important, and I also believe that the friendship we have built up with Denmark, both in terms of diplomacy, but also on a human level, is very, very important and that we can bring it with us, even after Greenland has become politically independent and economically independent. I certainly believe that the common history we have with Denmark will also have a very different dynamic significance in our political work in the future, in terms of the economy, but also in terms of foreign policy. So I see Greenland and Denmark still away being each other's best friends for many, many years, also after Greenland has become independent. The relationship between us and Denmark will just be on a different level.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131150	What is the rapporteur's view that the Danish Foreign Minister cancelled the cooperation agreement between Greenland and the Faroe Islands and Iceland the other day?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131202	I do not agree with the Danish foreign policy approach in this matter. I believe that the West Nordic cooperation that Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Iceland have had for many years has produced many good results and strengthened the region. The Hoyvík Free Trade Agreement between Iceland and the Faroe Islands is also a good example of how two countries can cooperate excellently on that level too. However, I also think that instead of criticising it, we should have an approach that says that we support the initiatives that make the region in the West stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131244	Thank you to Mrs Aleqa Hammond. There are no more brief comments, so welcome to Mr. Magni Arge from the Faroe Islands, from Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131304	Thank you, sir. President. I hope and believe that Greenland will succeed in its journey towards independence and a sustainable economy, even if it can be long and sometimes turbulent. I am deeply fascinated by the country, and I look forward to visiting Ilulissat at the end of the month. It is one of the most beautiful places in the world and therefore also a tourist magnet. But like the capital Nuuk, it is not available for larger modern aircraft, because the runways are too short, so I understand perfectly why Greenland has been discussing new runways for decades. It is a huge country with huge distances and a scattered and few people. Every country needs a proper and efficient infrastructure, so of course modernisation and infrastructure are high on the priority list and they will cost a lot of money. The Storebælt Bridge and the bridge to Sweden also did so and also the tunnels at home in the Faroe Islands, but they have transformed the infrastructure and accessibility in our countries, and Greenland also needs this as a basis for modernisation and efficiency. I hope you find a good and appropriate solution for Greenland, and I actually believe that there are also stakeholders who will help finance and invest in infrastructure in the Arctic, which can provide a basis for new development over the next 50 or 100 years. I know that Greenland is facing many challenges in various areas, and I am confident that the Greenlandic authorities are taking the necessary initiatives to resolve them. I also think it is okay for them to be debated here, but I do not think that much good will come out of the debate if the starting point is a question debate characterised by generalisations and sen-colonial prejudices. It would be much more beneficial to take a look at the possibilities for sustainable development of the welfare of Greenland than to threaten to turn down the hot water from Denmark if you do not join and speak nicely to the old colonial power. For example: We have seen that the development of cooperation in the Western Order can contribute a great deal to new and sustainable development throughout the West Nordic region. We share fate and challenges in a wide range of areas and can therefore benefit from synergies through direct cooperation between hospitals, educational institutions, transport, tourism, infrastructure, fisheries and maritime industries to name some. In the Faroe Islands, we very much welcome the growing cooperation between Greenlandic and Faroese authorities, institutions and companies, which really benefit both countries. I fully recognise that Denmark has a great obligation to Greenland and, of course, it must be taken seriously, but the supreme power in the country lies with the Greenlandic people, and that is why it is Greenland's democratic constitutional institutions that bear the ultimate responsibility for their own people, and I believe that the will for independence is precisely the drive to develop responsible economic and social development. This will must not be suppressed, but rather encouraged, because it will in the long run drive social development in a sustainable direction and create the best platform for respectful, equal and constructive cooperation with Denmark as well. I therefore find it difficult to understand how the questioners can get themselves to talk about cancelling Greenlandic autonomy. What are you going to do instead? A purely Danish patronage as back in colonial times? What are the prospects? Absolutely nothing. However, it may be an expression of the fact that fundamental democratic and international values are under pressure everywhere. Where Denmark used to hold the fan high when the Baltic countries became independent, and unceasingly spoke the cause of democracy, one has become less firm in the voice. We have seen it in Tibet and we will probably hear about it later today when discussing a new fisheries regime with Western Sahara and the European Union. We have also seen that the whole of Western Europe has closed their eyes and ears to the fact that in Catalonia the democratic independence movement has been criminalised, whose politicians have to pay to express their political convictions with long prison sentences or a life of exile. This is a real threat to the Western perception of democracy and international law. The fact that today's question debate is based on the fact that power factors in political Denmark want to threaten the suspension of Greenland's autonomy is a call in my world to all those who pay tribute to democracy to go to the barricades to defend democracy and international law. Therefore, on behalf of Tjóðveldi, I would like to make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Greenlandic people are a people under international law with the right to self-determination and that the Greenlandic people are free to decide on autonomy. The Folketing fully adheres to Denmark's ratification of international conventions and agreements, including inter alia: The United Nations International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, in which Article 1 states, inter alia, that: All peoples have the right to self-determination. By doing so, they are free to determine their political position and to carry out their own economic, social and cultural development. For their own purposes, all people can freely dispose of their natural resources and resources. A people must never be deprived of their means of existence. States Parties to this Convention, including those responsible for the management of non-self-governing territories or territories of guardianship, shall contribute to the implementation of the right of self-determination and shall respect that right in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. • V 29).
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131935	Thank you. And the first brief remark is from Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119131940	When Greenland launched the constitutional work, Iceland offered their help, if Greenland needed some help and input in shaping our future constitution. Then we also saw when Iceland did so that there were reactions from Denmark. But I also see the Danish Foreign Minister interfering in the cooperation between Iceland and the Faroe Islands. We've seen that too. What is the rapporteur's position on this intervention or interference in our own relations with our partners in the Western Order region?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132031	I think this was an unfortunate event, because we need to develop regional cooperation in the North Atlantic and towards the Arctic to a great extent. And I see that we have gradually developed some core competences and skills and have also succeeded in building more welfare models in different fields that work out in our region, if I can put it that way. And it's often better models that you can work together between us, and it's better than taking over models that you use down in Continental Europe and Denmark. So it is incredibly important that you have access to working together in the West and that it is respected that you do so. I do not think that there was so much in that agreement that one had to go into such a controversy about it at all. It was probably more about putting your foot down and saying: we are the ones who have foreign policy power, and not you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132138	Of course, we follow with interest and excitement the constitutional work of the Faroe Islands and how people are also involved in the whole work. I also know that the rapporteur is very much in favour of independence. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: how do you see relations between Denmark and the Faroe Islands after the Faroe Islands have become independent?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132205-2	There was a portrait of one of the most prominent female political figures in the Faroe Islands the other day on television, Andrea Árting. She was very concerned about the social dimension, but she also said that independence is a necessary part of the Faroese political agenda. Because we have what all people have: we want to be masters of our own house, but we certainly also have to be good friends with our neighbours. And it must be based on the fact that it is a genuine and constructive friendship on which it will build. But you're the master of your own house, and it's on equal terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132254	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132259	Thank you very much. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I think it is very positive that there is also commitment from the Faroese side. I would like to make a brief comment on the proposal for adoption, because the rapporteur has chosen to make his own proposal for adoption. It is precisely about a focus on this issue of international law. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur might be able to make a little more of what the background to this is. Then I have a comment from Inuit Ataqatigiit that it is important for us that we have, like this, secured the political majority in the Folketing in relation, of course, to maintain that we have a self-government law and that we should not go in and suspend. That is, of course, the result of the discussion that has taken place today. Then I would also like to ask a few questions about the process that the Faroe Islands are going through. For the constitutional vote that is due to take place here this year has, of course, been addressed as an identity document, in other words, that it is really more about identity and on what values are on which one builds one's society. So I'd like to hear if there's a majority for this Constitution... what that will mean for the everyday life of a cousin and how you'll feel that there's another constitution or another foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132413	How many minutes do I have to answer those questions? Third Vice-President: 1 minute). Okay. We'll be brief so I can remember all the questions I got. On the first question, I have to say that I was subjected to an unusual experience of provocativeness on 1 October down in Spain, where authorities were experienced using violence against people who actually only used their freedom of expression by going to the ballot box and handing in a ballot. Then we have imprisoned the people who have used the democratic platform to lead their cause and who believe that independence for Catalonia is right for them. And you threaten them with imprisonment for up to 30 years, and you actually threaten them out of the country and in exile. And all over Europe, you just sit and close your eyes and ears to this. I wonder what has actually happened in relation to the fundamental democratic values that we all invoke. Are we slipping in the clutch? Is it the same thing that I now see sneaking into the Danish debate about the suspension of Greenlandic autonomy and the right of international law to make decisions about its own future and to let the people who live in the country make those decisions? Is that the next thing we're gonna see? It is therefore incredibly important that such conditions are clearly expressed in a Faroese constitution, i.e. that the supreme power in the Faroe Islands lies with the Faroese people, and that we can decide our future, but we must ask the people of the Faroe Islands first.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132553	One minute is very short. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132556	Thank you very much, and thank you for your answer. I will spend my time asking the second question, because the process that is going on in the Faroe Islands is also quite interesting from a Greenlandic perspective. For what is it really meant to mean for a concubine in everyday life? Will it make a difference, or is it more of an identity paper, a paper that like describes some values and a process that the Faroese people are going through? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132629-2	Let me say straight away that I am not 100% sure that I am completely up to date compared to where you are in the Greenlandic process. However, I can say that as far as the Faroese process is concerned, this is not a document of secession. That is what I have said before from the platform. First of all, it is an identity document, it can be said, setting out what rights we have, explaining our democratic institutions, explaining our right to self-determination, and referring to some general values that people have in their own country. I believe that this is a very important document for us, including for our everyday lives. One can say that the Danish constitution relates to a Danish daily life and a Danish reality, but the Faroese reality is completely different today, because we have assumed virtually all legislation in the Faroe Islands and virtually all financial responsibility for our welfare. We also need cohesion that can be read all the way from a constitution to our daily lives. It is therefore part of strengthening the cohesion of our society on which we must build.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132741	Thank you very much, sir. Magni Arge. There are no more brief comments. We move to Sjúrður Skaale, also from the Faroe Islands, from the Faroese social democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119132752	Thank you for that, President. I studied a little when I first read an article in Weekendavisen in December which was very critical of various conditions in Greenland, both the social conditions and what was referred to as political corruption in Greenland. The article concluded that the time had now come for a Danish dispute with Greenlandic autonomy. It said, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, There are no legal agreements that can free the Danish State from the political and moral responsibility it has to protect its citizens • regardless of the place of birth. Danish remote control of Greenland was therefore the solution to the problems that were listed. The author was something as fine as a PhD student at Oxford University. Since then, as has been said, Thorkild Kjærgaard, professor, has drummed for the same thing, and the Danish People's Party has declared that Greenlandic politicians not only lack the ability and will to demonstrate the necessary responsibility, but that they are also completely indifferent to reality. I think it is good that the Danish People's Party shows the commitment that is being made. I think it is a political duty to have opinions and to give warnings about what is seen as a great danger, but I would warn very strongly against the generalisation of which the party is guilty. For example: is one of the politicians who falls under the party's description of Greenlandic politicians as useless and indifferent, Mrs Asii Chemnitz Narup, who is the mayor of Nuuk and East Greenland. In a chronicle in Politiken on 6 January, she thus says that a politician from whom the Danish People's Party kicks his hand: I agree with Søren Espersen that part of the political class in Greenland is suggesting that independence will solve all problems. There are plenty of populism, financial irresponsibility and cheap and totally unrealistic solutions on the table that I myself get gray hair in my head and tinnitus in my ears from listening to. However, this does not justify launching another irresponsible, cheap and unrealistic solution to Greenland's self-government..... Since then she refers to some of the concrete projects that she is engaged in in order to achieve a better economy and better social conditions in Greenland. These are tourism, research, education, energy, entrepreneurship, food, culture, etc. Although she accuses some of her political colleagues of populism and irresponsibility in the debate on independence, she has no doubt that the process of greater self-government is both right and necessary and, towards the end, she says these words:..." to suspend self-government... will plunge the Kingdom community into a violent crisis, put the relationship under further pressure and tighten the rhetoric. I have no doubt that she is quite right. I believe that this is irresponsible and without regard for the economy and so on. Talking about a separation from Denmark within a short period of time is irresponsible, but talking about suspending the powers of the home regime is at least as irresponsible, if not more. That's what I'm saying from experience. We can learn a little from history, because in the 1980s there was a terrible economic irresponsibility in the Faroe Islands. Politicians turned the treasury into a kind of bank and, on behalf of taxpayers, went into various business projects with a huge risk to the ordinary citizen. At that time the Prime Minister had an advisory committee on the Faroe Islands, and its annual reports were very gloomy reading. But then Prime Minister, that was Mr. Poul Schlüter, limited his remarks to saying such things as that, yes, this looks quite depressing. There was total fear of touch, no one dared say anything, no one dared even less do anything. In 1992, the card house collapsed. Denmark had to play the field, and it ended in almost brutal struggle for money and guilt and responsibility. The Faroe Islands were actually placed under Danish administration. The distiller between the Faroe Islands and Denmark became total. Denmark was sued by the Faroe Islands. The Danish press's description of Faroese politicians and Faroese business leaders, the Faroese population as a whole, was generalising, patronizing and not so little rude. Large reports were written both in the Faroe Islands and in Denmark, where the blame for the 1990s disaster was placed with both Danish and Faroese authorities. In this atmosphere, elections to the Latting were held in 1998 and the new local government set the course for secession. Of course you had some reasons for that, but part of the reason I think was an opt-out of Denmark instead of an option of a Faroese state. The distrust was so great that you wanted to get out of the relationship. So it was that there was financial irresponsibility in the Faroe Islands, which was of concern in Denmark, who had come to separate the Faroe Islands from Denmark, and there had been a Danish policy to suspend the powers of the Home Rule Government, so the focus was shifted from the concrete relationships to something that was most similar to nationalism, Danish and Faroese, Denmark towards the Faroe Islands, and it ended up completely wrong. I would therefore like to say that it is very good that the debate is being raised, it is very good, but it is incredibly important to focus on content, substance and concrete issues. If it comes to blowing to nationalist fire, we are on a dangerous course. If it becomes Greenlandic nationalism against Danish nationalism, we lose focus on what it is all about, namely the well-being of the people, and then it goes completely wrong. I would therefore like to say that I welcome the debate, but both from Greenland and from Denmark we must be careful to breathe into the glow of nationalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119133431	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There are no brief comments. I understand, sir. Søren Espersen does not want a final comment, so we go to the Prime Minister. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119133454	Thank you. I shall try to be brief, because it has been a good debate with many nuances, but it has not been a debate which, in this way, brings to mind what I said in my first speech, and I hope everyone will remember this very well. The main point was, of course, clear that the question of Greenlandic independence is only a Greenlandic question at the end of the day. It will be respected if there is such a desire. It will be a wish that bears some consequences in itself, as I also explained, rather in detail even, namely what kind of Danish contribution is currently made to Greenland's economy and which will not be there over time if you seek full autonomy. Many things have been said. I very much agree with that, sir. Karsten Hønge said, which was actually summarized in the sentence: We should perhaps solve the problems rather than dissolve the Kingdom community. That seems to me to be a very good thing to say, and I really share the approach to things that Mr. Karsten Hønge and other rapporteurs with him have had, namely that we have full respect for the fact that in every people there is a vision of independence, but that it is only important that there is also a focus on reality, that is, where you are. Self-sufficiency is not just a legal process or a piece of paper, but the ability to be self-employed, self-employed, to be able to do so. In any case, it is obvious that there are some challenges in the Greenlandic economy, which many have also mentioned. Sir. Martin Lidegaard threw himself into the profession of marriage counselor and of course I must be careful not to inspire myself unnecessarily. But I just want to say that if you stay in that picture of a marriage where one partner walks around not only with himself, but also in the open room and plays with the idea of leaving marriage, then I think that my best advice would be to say: we have to have clear talk. We have to be open. We need to find out what the motives are, what the ambition is. That should also be my comment here today, and it is also a repetition of what I have said on many previous occasions: I hope, first and foremost, that Greenland will ensure that the debate we have is conducted on a clear and enlightened basis. So the current situation is that for every time you take 2 kr. out of the country, comes the one crown from the Danish block grant, to which are the tasks that have not yet been taken home, and to which are the tasks that are matters and which in a future with an independent Greenland must be solved in Greenland. I hope that this clarity will come into the debate, and I would also like to express my satisfaction, as I have done before, that the terms of reference of the Constitutional Commission indicate that there must be this dialogue with and involvement of the Ministry of Justice, whose parts of the Constitution must apply while Greenland is part of the Commonwealth. Then I would like to say to the debate that has been going on about Danish involvement in Greenland that no one should be in any doubt that I and my government want the Kingdom community. And I myself get worried about some of the things I see in Greenlandic society, with children who are miserable, with income differences and inequalities that do not match what we know in Danish society. But I also need to fully respect the framework we have laid down for cooperation in the Self-Government Act. The areas that have gone home are now I have tried to signal by several rounds, both here from the Parliament's platform and in direct meetings with the President of the Government and also in Greenland's newspapers, that if there is a desire in Greenland for closer cooperation in areas that are actually Greenlandic matters, then the government is obviously open to it. This is true, for example. concretely what has also been the focus of the debate here today, namely the prospects of looking at whether a Danish-Greenland Foundation could be developed and, in fact, it should not necessarily stop there, but in other words, based on Greenland and Denmark, the business fund or anything else that could support a business development in Greenland. I heard what Mr. Martin Lidegaard said that one could also go a step further, but I have to say that as Prime Minister of Denmark, I feel that my right of initiative is going to stop just about where I have quite clearly told Greenland that there is an open invitation. I fully share the surprise, which I have actually felt in some of the rapporteurs, that we do not accept the hand that is being raised. But I can stand and wonder about that here. Much more I can't do. I think these should be my summary comments at the end of this debate, which I would also like to welcome. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising it. We're not moving anything by covering up or tabooing real problems. I think that clarity and openness and transparency are the way forward, and that goes both ways. As I said, I also believe that it will be a basic rule of a partnership in which one considers a different future, to have full clarity about what the motives are, what the circumstances are, what the conditions are and what realism is, and I think this debate has also supported that. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134200	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134206	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his comments on the Danish commitment to Greenland. I think it is very positive that we are just looking at whether we might be able to act differently in order to ensure a better relationship in the short term. I think this is always important to keep in mind. Then I am actually a little curious about this free association, for it has been mentioned from some parties in Greenland as an opportunity, among other things. Siumut mentioned it earlier. If this is to be put at the forefront, one could say that one could replace the label with self-government with free association and then make a new political agreement where there is a greater degree of autonomy, but in this way one has different areas which Denmark still handles on behalf of Greenland. This is not something that we necessarily advocate from Inuit Ataqatigiits, but I think it is quite important to know where the Prime Minister is on this issue, so I will therefore raise the matter with the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134314	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134316	But it is somehow a cover-up for a debate on independence. Free association is, after all, an association between free independent states. So this is a perspective that could possibly emerge on top of a decision on independence. So it is not something that upsets the discussion we have had here today about the extent to which Greenland is an economically self-sustaining society. Everyone looks up almost lost at me as if I had to say something more, but I have said what needs to be said about it. It is, of course, a suggestion of a future relationship after a decision that Greenland has become independent. The decision that Greenland should be independent is therefore a decision that must be initiated in Greenland and in which I just say that I really hope most of all that a debate on independence, regardless of whether the relationship is afterwards one or the other, is a debate that is conducted on a clear and enlightened basis, where one cannot escape the fact that questions about the economy also play a role. And the situation is probably right now, in order to cut it to the point that either one has to accept a huge loss of prosperity as a free and independent nation, or at least there are a number of decisions that have to be made on some things that have to change in the real economy before one gets there and can effect such a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134455	I don't want the Prime Minister to hold back. It is the case that the President appreciates people who have the courage to speak briefly. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134504	Thank you very much for your answer. The reason I ask is also that I think that both in Greenlandic society, but here in the Danish Parliament too, we can have many different views about what independence really is, and this is the process that I think is extremely important to have taken in Greenland. As I hear the Prime Minister say repeatedly, there is a need for clear speech; we need to know what choices we make, what consequences it has when we make the various choices • what opt-outs we make when we make a choice. I very, very much agree with that. I think it is important that we have a common understanding of what independence really is, because I do not think we have that today. So it is more like a comment and an input into a debate that I think is important to discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134551	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134553	I very much welcome that. When I reply, as I do, it is because I think we should also be careful that we do not use words or concepts or anything else that, like, creates the impression that there is some sort of solution, so that we can simply take a decision on independence without any effects. For whatever future relationship there should be between a completely independent Greenland and an independent Denmark, whether it be what Mrs Aleqa Hammond called a friendship, which is just an informal relationship, or whether it was a more formal relationship in such a free association agreement, then independence comes first. And in the resolution on this, I just appeal to you to be ready for the conditions for it to be present and, of course, they are if you are prepared to carry them. I just have to say in relation to the overall Danish public economy that, right now, if you moved the tasks now being solved by Denmark to Greenland, and those that came from the fact that you were no longer in the Kingdom Community, then perhaps we are talking, what do I know, 40-60 percent. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134715	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134719	Yes, we are facing major social problems in Greenland. We are also faced with very big and difficult decisions, so that Greenlanders in the future will have a better life than we have had ourselves. And that is why I think it is extremely important to ensure that the debate does not take place: now solve the problems first and do not dissolve the Kingdom community. I don't think you can say things like that. I think it is extremely important to take the debate on independence for Greenland with a more nuanced approach. I also think it is extremely important to show respect for the measures taken to resolve the problems that we face in Greenland and which no one is in any way running away from. Having said that, I think that since Greenland is working towards independence and is in the process of dismantling the Kingdom community, it is possible to work towards another kind of community, even after Greenland has become independent. Does the Prime Minister see that as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134834	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119134836	But I hope that Greenland does not work towards the dissolution of the Kingdom, and I have not read the terms of reference in that regard either. In other words, I have read the mandate as an open mandate, where it is a little unclear how priority is given, but where there is operation in two tracks: a track with a constitution that is to apply to an independent Greenland, that is to say, free from the Commonwealth; and a clue that is about a constitution that needs to be kept within the framework of the Commonwealth, which really matches the constitutional process that is going on in the Faroe Islands, and where you might be able to talk more about • now I have to be careful how I use the words "an identification paper." And when I read the terms of reference, both tracks are open. I fully respect the fact that there is a debate in Greenland, and I shall not interfere with it except with the pious wish that the debate should take place on as enlightened and clear and realistic a basis as possible. And then I have an expectation of that, and I think that I have been promised both in writing and in meetings that when one approaches the time when one has to conclude the debate and when one may have to go into a referendum, there must be a dialogue, because it is important that we do not get into misunderstandings. And so it goes without saying that if you choose at that time the trail that is called to be free of Denmark, free of the Constitution, free of the Kingdom community, then it is also free of the block subsidy. Then it is with repatriated tasks for own resources, so it is with a commitment to find a solution to how the rich tasks that are today, in other words territorial enforcement and other things, must be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119135033	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119135037	Yeah, that's for sure. In Greenland there is constitutional work going on, but Greenland is also working towards independence. It is, of course, a very big goal, and it also creates great emotions in the Kingdom community, feelings about wanting to keep the Kingdom community, about family ties, relationships and the like. It's all coming up on the surface. It is also clear from the public that this very often concerns feelings. It's a clear speech. When the constitutional work is completed and recommendations are made on an enlightened and clear basis, how does the Prime Minister think that relations between Greenland and Denmark will be then?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119135120	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119135121	That depends entirely on what kind of product it is or what kind of conclusion it is that has been reached. That's all I can say about it. I cannot respect both the fact that there should be a debate in Greenland about what path you want to go, and then stand and pre-conclude how I will relate to different outcomes. Well, I have to wait for the debate to be concluded in Greenland. I was just trying to shed some light on the process by saying some things, namely that I've been talking about this business fund, but it has to be based on a Greenlandic reaction. That's my starting point. If you choose to say in Greenland: we are going for the full independence, we are resigning from the Kingdom community, yes, it is clear that that is what you are doing. And then, of course, it will be the same as I said in the debate we had in May, which gave some controversy in the Greenland press afterwards; but I can repeat here that the block grant will be phased over a shorter period of time, and then Greenland itself will have to be able to carry out the tasks. That goes without saying. And that is why I agree that we need a nuanced approach to this discussion, but we also need a realistic approach to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119135305	Thank you to the Prime Minister, there are no more brief remarks. No one else wanted to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the three proposals for adoption will take place on 23 January 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119135326	I would point out that the vote on the proposal for adoption is postponed until Tuesday 23 January 2018. I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119135404	Thank you. Exactly a year ago, Danwatch published the report • Business on banned land • which documented how Danish pension societies and municipalities have extensive investments in the illegal Israeli settlements on occupied Palestinian land. We are talking about billions of investments which undermine a two-state solution, investments that are contrary to Danish policy, against the guidelines of the OECD and the UN, guidelines which most investors even indicate to follow. Since the report was published, we in the Folketing have held a hearing on responsible investments involving researchers, industry, politicians and other stakeholders. It has emerged that the debate is about more than investment in illegal settlements. It is about how Denmark can take responsibility for Danish companies, how pension societies and municipalities are prepared not to throw fire on the fire and in conflict areas not to violate international humanitarian law and not to violate human rights. Denmark has a responsibility to guide companies on their obligations and responsibilities under applicable international laws and guidelines. In the report from Danwatch, pension companies said that the guidance they are receiving today is not good enough for them to manage customers' money responsibly. At the hearing, we could hear researchers calling for a much greater commitment from European governments in relation to the measures to be taken in business in conflict areas such as the occupied territories. At the hearing, the Minister explained the new guidelines being drawn up. I look forward to seeing the final version, but I am concerned that the specific measures to be taken in conflict situations, particularly in occupied Palestine, are not mentioned in the draft that was in consultation in November. I hope that today we can stand together on how important it is for Denmark to take responsibility and do its utmost to help companies and investors not to contribute to violations of international law, of human rights, and not to support a brutal occupying power. In August, in a call in Kristeligt Dagblad, Interfolk Samvirke wrote that, despite general progress in the pension sector, there is not a single pension company aimed at complying with the UN guidelines on responsible investments • yet not a pension company that is in line with the UN guidelines on responsible investments. And that's not the change we're talking about. The Danish pension funds' assets are 200 times larger than Denmark's development aid in 2016 • 200 times larger investments that can benefit or can do terrible damage. There is a long way to go, and it is crucial that the government takes responsibility. It is against this background that the Alternative, the SF, the Radicals and the Enhedslisten have called the Minister in the Chamber today, so that we in the Folketing can get the Government's bid on how to take responsibility for advising and helping private actors and municipalities to follow the international guidelines that Denmark has already undertaken to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119135737	Thank you. And then it is the Foreign Minister's turn for an answer. Welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119135747	Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this question. The conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians is long and complicated, but for Denmark and the government it is clear that the only solution is a two-state solution that takes due account of both the Israelis and the Palestinians. The Israelis have a legitimate right to live in peace and security and the Palestinians have the right to their own viable state. The government, like a broad majority in the Folketing, believes that Israel should cease its settlement policy because the settlements undermine the possibility of a two-state solution and are illegal under international law. The Danish Parliament, most recently with its adoption, V 53, in 2016, has emphasized that the settlements will not be legitimised by agreements between Israel and the EU or by Danish public or private commitments, their existence or improved economic opportunities. This is a political statement that is not legally binding, because no international sanctions have been adopted prohibiting investment in or for the benefit of settlements. However, commitments that benefit settlements weaken the possibilities for a two-state solution. Therefore, the government advises against commitments and activities aimed at strengthening settlements. That is why we support the common messages to citizens and businesses in the European Union, which are precisely aimed at raising awareness of the risks associated with a commitment to settlements. And that is why the government supports the call in UN Security Council Resolution 2334 to distinguish between Israel and the occupied territories. The EU and Denmark are already making a distinction because we have a territorial clause to prevent settlements from being covered by agreements with Israel. Resolution 2334 referred to in the question has been adopted in Chapter 6 of the UN Charter and thus does not contain explicit sanctions. Therefore, how the resolution will affect investments in settlements will depend on the actual assessment of potential investors. I have now explained the government's view of the fundamental political and international aspects of the question. Let me now make a few comments on the Danwatch report of January 2017, which the question among others. I'm gonna start with that. First of all, we have to say fresh gross figures of 3 billion. DKK 23 Danish investors, according to Danwatch, have shot in companies with activities in the occupied territories. This drew headlines at the launch of the report in January last year, but there is a great deal of investment in large worldwide companies whose activity in settlements represents an infinitely small part of their total activity, so you will have to eat some bread. Secondly, I note that the report sheds light on an issue which is dealt with periodically in Danwatch's reports, namely the ethical issue. I would now like to say something about this with a contribution from the Minister of Industry, with whom guidelines on the social responsibility of Danish investors lie. The Minister for Economic Affairs has stated that financial undertakings, among others: institutional investors, like other companies, are covered by the UN Guidelines on Human Rights and Occupations and the OECD Guidelines on Multinational Enterprises. That's true, no matter where they operate. The UN guidelines apply to both companies and public authorities, including municipalities. The guidelines contain principles and standards of responsible corporate behaviour. The guidelines state what institutional investors and companies should do to avoid or, if necessary, deal with their possible negative impact on human rights. It can, for example, be done. through sharpened due diligence processes or in Danish through the necessary care. The guidelines are not legally binding on institutional investors and companies, but the government works for and expects the UN and OECD guidelines to be complied with both within and outside Denmark. The guidelines contribute to sustainable development globally on a level playing field. These are complex challenges. The UN and OECD Guidelines recognise that the follow-up and prioritisation of interventions by institutional investors and companies depends on the type of investment, asset class, contract with suppliers, etc. In addition, different sectors have different risks and challenges. The Government therefore supports the OECD's current efforts to spread OECD guidelines for multinational companies to non-OECD countries and to spread the guidelines to specific sectors. Denmark, like other countries which have joined the OECD guidelines, has a national OECD contact point. It is the mediation and complaint institution for responsible corporate behaviour, called MKI. The MKI is responsible for dealing with cases concerning whether Danish companies, organisations and public authorities act in accordance with the principles set out in the guidelines and to inform about the OECD and UN guidelines. MKI's mandate covers both private and public actors, and therefore both companies, investors and municipalities can be appealed to MKI. The Ministry of Business has stated that MKI currently focuses on the guidance needs of the financial sector and knowledge of both the UN and OECD guidelines. In spring 2017, the OECD published an indicative summary of the OECD guidelines, which were specifically targeted institutional investors. In the spring of 2017, the Minister for Business has therefore set up a working group with representatives from among others. pension companies, companies, civil society and business organisations. The working party shall have, inter alia: was tasked with providing input for updating the Danish Business Authority's guidance on responsible investments based on the UN and OECD guidelines. The working group gave its input to the Minister of Business at the end of December 2017, and work is currently being done to follow up this input. As regards the concrete framework for pension companies' investments, it is a key element of government policy to ensure security and confidence in the Danish pension system. Pensioners must therefore invest their assets in such a way that the interests of policy holders are safeguarded in the best possible way, inter alia. by ensuring the best possible return. There is no requirement for insurance companies and pension funds to invest in certain categories of assets. Nor are there any restrictions on their ability to establish an investment strategy that is targeted, for example. specific ethical, environmental or political considerations, as long as the interests of policy holders are safeguarded in the best possible way. A company therefore determines its own strategy for investment as long as they are responsible. In addition, it is up to customers to make demands on their investment company. However, the financial sector in Denmark very much follows the UN-supported principles of responsible investment. I would like to conclude with a specific ethical issue which Berlingske, under the heading of tobacco smoke, has already mentioned. Berlingske informed with Jyllands-Posten as a source that employees in the Danish Cancer Society's Combat through their company pension scheme invested in among others. British American Tobacco and Philip Morris. It had been going on for many years. The pension company in question explained that only a very small part of its large wealth was placed in tobacco shares, that the company's ethics were in the same place as the ethics of Danish society in general, and that tobacco was not an illegal product and added that most pension houses operated accordingly. The fight against cancer, of course, tried to channel pension funds away from tobacco, but how could these issues be dealt with? The dilemma was highlighted very precisely by Berlingske: can the pension money from the Combat of Cancer be invested in transport companies that transport tobacco to smokers? Can we invest in companies selling paper to tobacco companies? Can we invest in a bank that has tobacco companies as customers? And I could continue: can there be investment in companies selling tobacco or in companies holding a cigarette machine? The dilemmas are undoubtedly visible, and it cannot be solved through an ingenious public system that intervenes as a chief taste judge. Therefore, the government backs the recommendation to discourage investment in favour of settlements. This is the framework that the State can offer together with the guidelines on the social responsibility of Danish investors. The public must take it forward, among other things. with the help of reports that uncover reality. If a report keeps water, the public mouths open; there are many examples of this in the business world. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119140746	You're very grateful to the Secretary of State. We shall now proceed to the debate itself, and it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion who is opening the debate, and that is Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119140802	A year ago the Israeli Government decided that an additional 4 000 Israelis could illegally settle on the occupied West Bank. This is just one of many examples of how Israel systematically expands the illegal settlements of occupied Palestinian country. Since the 1990s the number of settlements has exploded, so today there are about 600,000 settlers in East Jerusalem and the West Bank. 42 per cent. of the West Bank and 86 per cent of the West Bank of East Jerusalem is controlled by Israeli settlers. According to international law, settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories are illegal. Both the UN Security Council, the General Assembly, the Human Rights Council and the International Criminal Court have established this and the settlements are not only illegal, they are also the main obstacle on the road to a peace agreement. It is important to remember that settlements can only survive, be built and expanded as long as someone invests in them. The Israeli Government and settlers are doing their bit to make it lucrative for foreign investors: the low-tax deadlines, low rents for settlement industrial zones, they are trying to hide that settlements are illegal under international law, and international investors are lured into by quick money in the burgeoning construction industry that is helping to develop settlements. But both the private sector and the Danish state are obliged not to be complicit in violations of the Geneva Convention and human rights. In 2016, a majority in the Danish Parliament confirmed that Denmark, both bilaterally and through the EU and the UN, must work to ensure that Israel ceases its settlement policy, and that Danish public and private engagements do not legitimise the existence of Israeli settlements or improve their economic opportunities, as the Foreign Minister just before emphasised up here from the Danish Parliament's platform. It is therefore quite grotesque that Danish pension companies and municipalities continue to have investments in illegal settlements. Both investors and the Danish government have a responsibility. Enhedslisten urges investors to withdraw their investments and the government to put action behind words by guiding, supporting and helping to respect international guidelines. Unfortunately, the government has not been clear and has not taken the necessary responsibility so far. The international guidelines are quite clear, Denmark's obligations are clear and the same is true. Let us move on to this, get the necessary guidance on investment in occupied land and in conflict situations, let us stop Danish companies, pension companies and municipalities contributing to Israel's brutal settlement policy. Not least at a time when Trump is creating further obstacles to peace as President of the United States, it is crucial that we on the Danish side stand guard over international law and actively oppose the illegal Israeli settlement policy. Allow me to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament refers to adoption no. V 53 from 2016 and takes note of the call in United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 to distinguish, in appropriate acts, between the territory of Israel and the occupied territories. Parliament calls for new agreements between Denmark and Israel, in accordance with Resolution 2334 and EU policy, to clearly indicate that they cannot be applied in these areas. The Danish Parliament calls on the Government to strengthen the guidance to private and public investors in order to facilitate the identification of exposures and activities taking place in or benefiting settlements, including continuously updating the State's guidance on responsible investments based on the UN and OECD guidelines and opinions of MKI. At the same time, the Danish Parliament expresses its support for the ongoing work of the OHCHR. V 30).
ParlaMint-DK_20180119141242	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I propose that we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Nick Hækkerup of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119141257	The starting point is really easy: Israeli settlements in the West Bank are illegal and are making the way forward towards promoting a two-state solution any longer. Investing in companies that have activities in the areas risks making settlements easier and thus facilitating a breach of international law. In other words, we must not invest in this type of business. But as with everything else, reality is not just black and white. Danwatch's report, which has been the springboard for today's question debate, shows that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights decided in March 2016 to set up a database of companies involved in illegal settlement activities. The database should have been presented at the 34th session of the Human Rights Council, which was held in February-March last year, but it was only postponed until December 2017, and now it is postponed further. What types of connections qualifying to be included in the list are not entirely clear. For example, does this mean that there is some kind of de minimis threshold, so that, for example, an investment in an index fund that has a modest investment in an enterprise which has a modest activity in a resident area will not be included in the database and that it would therefore be legitimate to invest in that enterprise? Or what is it that makes the list so long along the way? The problem is surely that somewhere there is a border area between investments which support settlements and which must be avoided, and something similar to the boycott of Israel, which must also be avoided. In addition to border migration, there are also a number of practical problems. One of the companies Danwatch has on his list of companies you shouldn't invest in is Caterpillar, which produces these yellow machines with the inscription Cat. They are on the list because they have delivered products to the Israeli army. In this connection, however, Insurance & Pension on Caterpillar, the world's largest manufacturer of construction machinery, says that the machines in question were not supplied by Caterpillar at all, but by the US Government through their government two government programmes, which makes a boycott of Caterpillar unreasonable. Amnesty International, which no one can well accuse of wanting to support Israeli settlements, is also throwing itself into a long explanation about PayPal, who, in cooperation with Israeli banks, offers its payments in the illegal settlements, and asserts that Amnesty International does not use PayPal itself, but that some other Amnesty departments do. And that is something that has been passed on to the international organisation. That also illustrates the problem. If you're finally gonna grab your own bosom, what about me? I have a leased Volvo V40 • It's not a very big and flashy car, but I'm happy with it and now I find out that the subsidiary Volvo Buses owns 261⁄2%. of the company Merkavim, who supplied armored buses to Eggedbus lines on occupied West Bank, and should I cancel the lease of my family car? It is just to illustrate the problems that are embedded in providing concrete answers to the relatively easy point of view on which the Folketing broadly agrees. Therefore, the Social Democracy strongly supports making it easier for private actors and municipalities to stay on the narrow path of virtue and not help facilitate illegal settlements and that they can therefore be helped in relation to which business they should stay away from. The assessment is not so easy that it was what I was trying to illustrate as it seems to be, why it is also relevant that the government provides guidance on this. The most operational thing, when the OHCHR's list comes over companies profiting from the development of settlements and the occupied territories, is perhaps in fact to use it, but we have to wait for it. Given this, the sensible adoption text, which is made by a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament, is a very good starting point for establishing the Danish Parliament's overall position, apart from the Danish People's Party on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119141738	Thank you, sir. Nick Hækkerup. There are also no brief comments on this proposal, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Claus Kvist Hansen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119141751	Thank you. I will start by rewinding back to what I think I heard the Foreign Minister mention and making clear, and if that is not what he said, that is at least what I am going to say: the UN is not a legislative assembly. The UN resolutions therefore have no legal validity; they are merely a political expression. I think it would be nice just to make that clear at the beginning. Good! The question here today is, of course, a question which follows on from several similar questions over time, and now it is so spicy with the UN Resolution 2334 of this House, which, as a whole, has to be said to contribute a very critical line towards Israel. I recognise that this is a sensitive issue and I recognise that there are strong feelings at stake, partly in relation to the Palestinians and partly in relation to the Israelis. But what I am saying, as a whole, is that there is not a great deal of understanding within the international community for Israel's position as the only well-functioning democracy in the Middle East, despite the gloomy fact that Israel is a nation surrounded by totally hostile nations, that is, countries that actually want Israel wiped out from the map; it is not just a metaphor, but physical and concrete. I think this is part of the report on what is going on in these areas. Normally it is the case that we are calling for investment, private investment, in areas that we would like to see developed, also in areas where there is conflict, since investments contribute overall to the economic development of the areas, they create jobs, they develop infrastructure, and they are helping to create a basis for keeping conflicts under control and, in the long term, finding peaceful solutions. But that principle does not apply to Israel. From DF's point of view, we are convinced that every investor in the world is fully aware of what they are investing in. If they are given additional information, which one might well call what we are talking about here today, we in the Danish People's Party regard as merely a hint with a rod for companies that they should refrain from investing in the disputed areas. Isn't that really what you want? What matters is not really what we want to isolate Israel, including economically? That is what we see from the Danish People's Party. In fact, the DF is also convinced that if investors refrain from investing, including in Gaza and the West Bank, and possibly withdraw completely, it will exacerbate the situation in the world of real policy. There will probably be more unemployed and a poorer economy, which can help to increase the frustrations and tensions in the area, and that will not make it easier for peaceful coexistence. Do you really think it will ease the tension in these areas if you withdraw money from the area? I think that is an open question. In short: from the Danish People's Party we say no to this vote. As I said, we fear that less investment, less economic activity in Israel, Gaza and the West Bank will undermine the conditions for further negotiations on a peaceful solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142139	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142143	Thank you. It can be said that this is basically a question of international law and international law, which states that a country must not occupy another country, which states that a country must not settle its own population in an occupied area and which states that one country must not take advantage of having occupied another country economically. Now I understand that the Danish People's Party does not believe that the Israeli occupation of Palestine is a problem. So I should just like to understand the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: do you think that it is Israel that is allowed to occupy other countries separately, or is it a principle view that applies to other countries in the world as well? So, is Israel a special case that is allowed to violate international law, or is it generally the case that, according to the Danish People's Party, countries are allowed to break international law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142245	I simply choose to ignore the rather provocative tone of the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. I recognise, and I acknowledge, which I also started my speech by saying that this is sensitive. There are strong feelings at stake. This is a conflict which looks a little difficult to resolve. It is not black and white, as a previous rapporteur mentioned a short time ago. I recognise that this is problematic and that we have a problematic situation, but what we are talking about here today is whether to scare investors away from the area or not. And whatever international law may say, whatever the UN resolutions may say and whatever their validity, it remains: do you want to withdraw money from these areas or do you not? And what will it mean to withdraw money from these areas and cut off investment in the areas? That is where I think this discussion is relevant. We can spend weeks and probably months discussing the legal situation about whether it is an occupied area. If that is what is international law, why have no judgments been handed down, why is there no basis for international law? If there were, if it were so clear, then perhaps these resolutions would have a different character as well. What we are asking on earth is: what will happen in these areas if we withdraw money from the areas and fail to invest in the future? There we see that it will only worsen the situation. I have to confess, that's how we look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142419	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142420	That was a very long answer which did not answer the question. Frankly, is the Danish People's Party in favour of international law being respected and countries not being allowed to occupy other countries? That is a very, very topical question. There has just been a situation in which Danish soldiers have been sent to the Baltic with the support of the Danish People's Party because they were concerned that there might be a Russian military aggression. We have a situation where Russia has annexed Crimea and has entered eastern Ukraine militarily. Is this a fundamental view of the Danish People's Party that you are not quite clear and that it is not black and white when you talk about violations of international law, or is it particularly the case that Israel has some rights that other countries in the world do not have according to the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142509	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142511	The rapporteur then continues the polemical tone here. Of course, it is not right for any country to occupy other countries in general terms. However, allow me to quote Professor of International Law Alan Baker, who said a few years ago in this context that the disputed territories are neither occupied nor Palestinian and then follows a long legal analysis which I do not intend to quote here. And he concludes: there is no legal basis for talking about occupied territories or illegal occupation. We can, of course, discuss whether we agree with or not, and that is why I recognise that the issue here is controversial and that there are strong feelings at stake, yes. But down on the ground, it's about what happens if we pull investment out of the disputed areas, and if we take care of what's happening to keep companies from investing there in the future. Will it be better for the Palestinians, or will it be worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142607	Thank you. There's one more questioner. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142610	It's quite fair that we can look at these things differently. To highlight someone who says that it is not occupied areas, that it is not one thing and the other, that all that is the reason why we are discussing it here today, reminds us of the climate debate, where you find a researcher who says that climate change is not man-made, while it may well be 99.9%. Scientists say that's it. It's just a bad starting point for a discussion. But my specific question to the rapporteur is: who is the commercial economic development that is taking place in the settlements for the benefit of?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142654	Basically, I believe that any investment, any expansion of an economy in any area will benefit everyone. I am sure that both parties in this particular case will benefit from this, and I am sure that Palestinians will actually have a better life if we are to draw it so sharply from the fact that there are economic activities in the area in which they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142721	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142722	But they don't, sir. On the contrary, Claus Kvist Hansen. Their water supplies are being stolen, their land is being stolen, and these are things that could have benefited the Palestinians who live there. It is their orchards that are stolen, their access to their own land is prevented. So it's a zero-sum game and even worse than that. The land and the activities are the whole basis of life for the illegal settlements to grow. Does the rapporteur completely disagree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142803	Then I am back again in the discussion on this, that I recognise that the situation is complicated and sensitive and that there are strong feelings at stake. However, when it comes to the matter, and if the rapporteur wants a direct answer, I would say that, regardless of how the rapporteur might perceive the situation in these areas, we are still clear in our view that economic investment contributes to economic growth, creates jobs in general, creates the stability that will be beneficial to a peaceful solution in the longer term.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142839	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119142848	Thank you. First of all, I would like to stress that Danish investors should of course pay attention when making investments: what they invest in and what behaviour the company has. The gratifying thing is that we are actually hearing this from the Danish pension funds, municipalities and investment funds that they are trying to do. That is not to say that it is a simple or easy task. It is particularly difficult, of course, when this company has activity in occupied territory. But it is a task that should be left open from here, because, whether it be pension funds, investment funds or municipalities, their investments should be driven by the guidelines set out by, among other things, the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), The aim is, of course, to implement a peace process capable of providing a two-state solution that respects Israel's right to security and the right of the Palestinians to an independent and viable state. And we should always work to promote the peace process with the rest of the Member States of the European Union and to support the UN's distinction between Israel and the occupied territories. The government is already well in the process of spreading both private and public investors' knowledge of the UN's so-called guiding principles, which are now incorporated into the OECD guidelines for multinational companies, and in the spring the Danish OECD contact point held an event, and the government's advisory committee is working on a new guidance on responsible investments. The guidelines apply to the whole world, but are particularly relevant in occupied territories, as it tightens the requirements for so-called due diligence by companies. Investments that support settlements are not in line with UN decisions and, therefore, investments that directly oppose this objective are not compatible with the political objective that we in the Danish Parliament have supported in relation to the Israel-Palestine conflict. And as far as financial investors are concerned, it is therefore essential to note that the UN Guidelines on Human Rights and Occupations are currently part of, for example, the investment funds' screening procedures, guidelines which have subsequently been incorporated into the OECD recommendations that Danish financial investors are currently implementing. So, for me, it is important to remember that there are a great many business activities in Palestine that are within the framework of the UN guidelines and which help to increase economic activity. However, there may also be others who may comply with Israel's legislation, but who also comply with the UN guidelines to protect the Palestinians from breaches of their human rights. As legislators, we know of someone how complex reality can be, even though the principles are simple, and it is therefore gratifying that the United Nations will contribute its assessment in the future. Building walls or building new homes is, of course, a breach of the rules, but there may be economic activities such as food or services within the framework, and it is important to maintain an economy in the Palestinian territories. An automatic exclusion of all companies, I think, could have a very negative impact on the growth and development of the occupied territories, and nobody should have an interest in that. So the question is what we are actually discussing today. Because when I listen to interest groups and investors and, above all, the government, I hear that everyone agrees that the decisions of the United Nations must be complied with, that the human rights of the Palestinians must be respected and that compliance with the OECD guidelines is an important part of this. We all agree on that. It is important to investigate possible breaches of the rules, to establish facts and to determine whether guidelines are therefore infringed in the individual case and there may be disagreement in the individual cases, most often because it may be very difficult to determine the nature of a so-called given economic activity, such as: The rapporteur from the Social Democratic Group spoke about this. And here you are obliged, on behalf of your members, to check any claim or information. So transparency with institutional investors allows better choice to be made to and from which investments you wish to support, and companies should therefore be able to organise their investment strategy within the given guidelines, and then it should be up to the market to assess which activities you wish to invest in. So, finally, on behalf of my Conservative colleague Mr. Naser Khader, who unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber, says that they also support the text adopted by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143356	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143359	Thanks for the speech. I just wanted to hear and I think I know what the answer is, but would just like the rapporteur to explain whether the rapporteur agrees with our colleagues in the Danish People's Party that, overall, it benefits the Palestinians who live in the areas or right next to the settlements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143429	I mean, I am, and I do not think that is a great surprise, totally against the illegal settlement policy and the illegal settlements that are taking place in the occupied territories. This is a violation of international law, and we cannot and must not support it in any way whatsoever. The message must also be made clear to the Israelis that it should stop and that settlements should be reversed. Because before they do, we cannot have any kind of stability and lasting peace solution. As I tried to clarify in the speech, what I also heard Mr. Nick Hækkerup from the Social Democratic Party try to do, things are of course not black or white. In other words, if we went in and said to all companies that have just one thousand of their products inside the occupied territories that it is now forbidden to have it, then it could have far-reaching negative consequences, including for the Palestinians. So I guess I won't come any closer to a clear answer than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143516	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143518	Thank you. It is also a debate that we can take, and I would like to take that too. Here and now I just want to hear about some of the examples I gave to our colleagues in the DF: if you secure a water supply that could otherwise have gone to surrounding fields, or if you take some land that is actually the private property of some Palestinians, then you take resources which, otherwise, rightly belong to those who live there legally when you settle illegally. So that was one way of asking the rapporteur, because exactly in this area it is probably a zero-sum game. I mean, you take resources that belong to some people who already live there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143617	It is quite true that in relation to the entire irrigation area, which is of course very important in a region such as the Middle East, but also in relation to road access, which is also a challenge for the Palestinian autonomous areas in relation to these illegal settlements and their roads, I am very concerned. I also think that the Israelis have gone far too far in relation to this. I have even said that repeatedly. And, of course, we should be watching over that too, because you can never get a Palestinian state to stand, if you don't have these, we should say, supply lines in place. So there I think we are very much in agreement. Of course, I also recognise that there is a security aspect for the Israelis, and we must of course think about that too. So that way there must also be a balance in it. But the route taken in relation to water and to roads, I think, is far, far out of line on the part of Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143702	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143704	Thank you. I would say that I am very pleased with the clear support for international law and criticism of the illegal settlements that come from the rapporteur of the Left. I'd like to sign for that. In relation to the whole of the problem raised by the rapporteur, that there may be real investment in the Palestinian territories, and then there may be investments in settlements that we agree to prevent, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur about something. This is partly or rather a politically created problem because the Israeli Government is setting up export barriers to the Palestinian territories and is deliberately trying to create a grey area. I would just like to know if the rapporteur does not think that this is something that we should also address politically on the Danish side in order to remove the grey area that the Israeli Government is trying to create.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143759	Well, I'm a liberal. It's not because I want to say it over and over again or yes, I do. But it is because I think it is an important aspect to bring in here that free trade could help to create stability to a much greater extent, and therefore more trade with the Palestinian area could also be very good. Now I say area, and it will be a long debate on how and how to do with the Hamas regime, and whether we will have a unity government that will be lasting and everything else. However, let us say Palestinian self-government. At any rate, I would like us to have better cooperation with it, and there is no doubt, for me at least, that the Israelis are currently engaged in such a balancing game, which unfortunately tips all too negatively on punishing the Palestinians so that they cannot act at all as an area of self-government. And this is a huge problem for stability.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143851	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143852	Thank you. I would just like to say that we now have a Palestinian government of unity, which means that it is an obvious opportunity for us from Denmark to go in and try to bring about viable and sustainable economic development in the Palestinian territories. So I just hope that we can have continued cooperation on that. This is not exactly the subject of today's debate, but it is something that we can continue to work on here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143922	Of course, I'm always ready for it too. I am just as I was also trying to say a little indirectly, but as I have to say a little more directly, a little sceptical about the stability of this government of unity, which is why I would like to take a look at it a little more. Let's put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143935	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119143948	Thank you for the floor. For Christmas, I was among others. gifted with Per Stig Møller's memories from the years he was Minister of Foreign Affairs. Of course, I immediately threw myself at reading them, and I can also say as a side remark that it is worthwhile, so I can also encourage others in this room to do so. One of the things Per Stig Møller places a lot of space on the agenda for peace, which he and Denmark played a very active role in in the 00s, and there he writes that peace plans for the Middle East are • and I quote "the cemetery of good will." That is the expression he uses, that is, the cemetery of good will. We can agree with Per Stig Møller on this, or we may disagree, but in any case he is absolutely right that the peace perspective in the whole region and in the Israel-Palestine conflict is extremely important. He himself also says that peace is probably farther away today than it was ten years ago when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, with regard to the peace perspective, it has to be stated that a lasting solution must of course be a solution that respects both Israel's perfectly legitimate demands on peace and security and the Palestinian's ability to create a viable state, and of course both sides must take responsibility. I personally believe that the Palestinians have a much longer two do-list than Israel, but it is not the case that Israel has no two do-list at all in terms of getting closer to peace, and one of the things that I think should be on this two do-list is that the current settlement policy does not therefore serve the cause of peace, and that very large parts of the Folketing agree with me in this way, and it has been expressed in adoption V 53 from 2016. After all, this resolution stresses that settlements should not have legitimised their existence through agreements with Israel and the EU or through Danish public or private investment. The proposal for adoption that we have now made follows on from the V 53 and, at the same time, makes it clear the position of the international community. This is sensible and balanced, and I must thank all the many rapporteurs who have endorsed the proposal for adoption. It is good that we have a very broad proposal for adoption, which we naturally support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119144252	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119144312	In fact, in this debate, I very much want us to work together constructively and find practical solutions to ensure that Denmark does everything possible to enforce the principles of international law and the foreign policy line, for which there is, of course, a broad majority. The Israeli occupation is a clear violation of international law and leads to violent violations of the Palestinians' human rights. That is why, of course, the occupation must be stopped and Israel must immediately cease its settlement activities. But it requires international pressure, it requires international action. Denmark should stop importing, cooperating with and investing in Israeli settlements, just as we must recognise Palestine. Denmark should not in any way, even through economic commitment, support the economic life of the settlements and thus their raison d'être. It is so important that Israeli settlements do not, through agreements between the EU and Israel or through Danish public or private commitments, legitimise their existence or improve economic opportunities. The EU and Denmark already support a differentiated trade policy, but we must therefore do more to make it a reality. On the other hand, we would like to see a real ban on economic involvement in settlements; that is no secret. But we also think it is desirable with milder models, where Denmark more proactively ensures that companies comply with the UN principles of corporate governance and Danish foreign policy principles. In the alternative, we do not believe that it is only a question of ensuring what we have to say, to put it mildly, is a slightly challenged two-state solution. For us, it is about respecting international law and safeguarding human rights. And then it's all about choosing from, in our optics, right and wrong. So it is also a matter of ethics and morality. Then it is a matter of course using all the diplomatic and economic tools we have in the box to counter settlements and ensure that we, as a third country, do not support these illegal practices. It is quite headless, of course, that we constantly criticise Israel's settlement policy, but do nothing more to ensure that we do not help to keep it alive. It makes no sense that we do not put in and make it easier for Danish companies and investors to avoid being actively involved in supporting it. In my optics, it is merely a matter of putting our policy into practice. Where there's a will, there's a way. More broadly, it is about showing that we mean it when we say that companies have to take on greater social responsibility, especially at a time when multinational companies can operate so relatively unregulated across borders. We must show that we are willing to implement the UN guidelines on responsible corporate governance and that as politicians we are willing to take responsibility to ensure that it is easier to take responsibility for being a responsible company. Because I actually think there are a lot of companies and investment companies that want to take their responsibilities seriously. We're gonna help them with that. We saw, for example, that Sampension, in response to the Danwatch study, revised their guidelines and excluded four companies with involvement in the settlements, among others. as a consequence of complaints from their members. So there is great responsiveness. We need to help. It has long been discussed that the practical way to ensure compliance with the UN principles was difficult to translate in relation to Israeli settlements. It was, like, difficult to identify, and we have heard previous rapporteurs say so too. However, these very months it seems that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights is soon ready to publish a list of companies with activities in the occupied territories. It has been postponed a number of times because there has been a lot of pressure on the part of Israel and the United States, but now a provisional list of 25 companies has been leaked and there is much evidence that we will soon have the list which will make it easier to avoid these investments. I hope, of course, that this list will be public very, very soon, so that we can use it as a basis and tool for implementing a more concrete investment policy, so that we can provide practical guidance and also provide outreach advice. For, basically, we have to assume that when we support all the resolutions that we support, the work that the UN is doing in this area is fully in line with the principles which Danish foreign policy also follows. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119144816	For the time being, there is a comment from Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119144820	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. Let us now imagine that all the investors in the whole country are listening and actually feeling convinced by what the rapporteur is saying here today. And they decide to withdraw all the investments, if not tomorrow, then on Monday. And it is not alone the 3 billion. kr. from Danish investors, but they I must assume quite, quite many other crowns and dollars, and whatever it may be, from the rest of the world. Does the rapporteur think that life will then be easier for the ordinary Palestinians in these areas of dispute, or will it be harder?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119144903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119144905	In the occupied territories we see every day extreme violations of human rights. These investments help to support that it can continue because it supports the lives of Israeli settlers. And that's what we have to do about. We can do that if we ensure that there is no investment in the occupied territories. We must then, during a transitional period, until the economic tool has helped to get Israel back on track, where this conflict will be resolved, support the lives of the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119144933	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119144935	I have some doubts as to what the rapporteur actually concludes. But does the rapporteur really think that it would be beneficial for the Palestinians to remove jobs, to remove the development of infrastructure, whether it be in the case of one thing or another, in other words to remove the economic foundations that are being built up in these areas? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119144958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145000	What the rapporteur needs to understand is what I am saying. And it is that it will be for the benefit of the Palestinians that they will not be subjected to really serious human rights violations time and time again because there are settlements because it is an occupied area. And that's where we're gonna need all the tools to get Israel to cancel the occupation and get something done about these settlements. This will make life easier for the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145028	Thank you. The questioner has had his two comments. Then it doesn't go anymore, you only have two. That's the way it is. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145048	Thank you very much. May I not start by signing for the excellent cooperation that has been on the proposal for adoption that all parties in the Danish Parliament, except the Danish People's Party, can support today. It is a proposal for adoption which we very much welcome in the Radical Left. Everyone knows that this is a conflict that has spooky many years on the back, which has no easy solutions and which is currently stranded on the ground, as we see it, that the Palestinians do not have the ability and Israel does not want to resume the peace process, which is the only viable way forward for a two-state solution. Today's debate is about a niche, one might say, in the major, difficult problem, but a significant niche, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, because the settlements that are illegally taking place at the moment by Israel are not only helping to bring the conflict to a head, but are also helping to undermine the possibilities of finding a peaceful solution, namely the two-state solution, which is in fact ready for signature on the table. In this context, I have no doubt that any of the things that matter when the parties have to consider their position are the economic consequences. It is tempting to say that if the European Union and Europe could use both the economic carrot and the economic whip a little more consistently, then perhaps there would be a chance to massage the parties in the right direction. As far as illegal settlements are concerned, there are two things in particular that we welcome in today's proposal for adoption. We welcome the fact that it is quite sharp where Denmark is in relation to Resolution 2334 and that EU policy must clearly indicate that it cannot be applied in the areas covered by that resolution. We're glad it's so unmisunderstandable. Then, in fact, we are also very pleased that we are now agreed to strengthen the guiding approach towards private and public investors. That's because it's kind of a jungle for investors to find around in this. So there is consideration for those who have to manage our pensions and our investments in general, but then there is also the extra finesse in that we now ensure that every time there has been a specific case, for example. MKI in Denmark, i.e. a concrete interpretation of the OECD rules or the agreements we have made under our own auspices, we will get a very concrete assessment every time we learn a little bit more about whether an investment is on one side or the other of the fence, i.e. whether it actually stays within or outside the agreements we enter into and the international guidelines. And just as in the ordinary legal system, every time a judgment has been passed on something, we learn more about how to interpret it, so we can, in the same way, constantly gain a clearer understanding of what should and should not be covered by this kind of sanctioning regime. Against this background, we believe that today's debate has already taken us a step further, and we would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145402	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145416	If you've been to the West Bank and gone through, you'll see such a slightly barren landscape in many places, and then some green oases will appear. Often the green oases are where the water has been led, and that is an illegal settlement. The examples of how water resources, land, fields, orchards and everything else are stolen are everywhere. When I have gone, I have seen many examples of wells being destroyed for the Palestinians over and over again, and water resources being moved to where they have their illegal settlements. Apart from the fact that this is illegal, it is impossible to develop an independent economy, also because export opportunities are so incredibly difficult for the Palestinians, and that makes it even harder to reach where most of us say we want to go, namely a real opportunity for a two-state solution. That is why we in the SF would like us to go even further to ensure that illegal settlements are not supported financially. When Villy Søvndal was Minister for Foreign Affairs under the Thorning Government, he got through a labelling system in relation to goods coming from the occupied territories of the West Bank. It caused a little outcry among some back then. Subsequently, it has also become a common EU policy, and that is very good. The problem is that many of these products still end up in our supermarkets, although the large supermarket chains have adopted a policy not to sell settlers' goods, and they do so because the labelling system is being rigged. They are deliberately labelled as Israeli goods when exported. Today, after all, we are discussing and have a proposal for adoption, which a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind, and I would really like to sign for that. I think this has been one of the best examples of cooperation where we have been able to reach each other. I also recognise some of the comments that have been made by the Liberal Alliance and by the Social Democrats that sometimes there are so many chains in relation to companies that invest and actively support illegal settlements in the West Bank before it might reach a very large company I think that the example of Social Democracy was Volvo. From the SF's point of view, we would have liked to have gone more hard on saying that, with regard to those who directly invest in illegal settlements, we must have found an international common understanding that it simply must not be done. Yet today we have agreed to support Resolution 2334. We have agreed that an extra effort must be made to contribute and help those companies that want to live up to this policy we have, and from the SF we would also like to see the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights database of the companies present published. In fact, there are also a large number of prominent Israelis who also want it to be published. One might ask oneself the question that, if one thinks that it is right to invest directly in illegal settlements, there should surely be nothing to prevent companies from being made public in relation to it. But that is something we will continue to work on. It should not take anything away from the fact that today we have as broad a text for adoption as it is, and we from the SF think that this is a very good starting point for moving forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145842	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145843	Thank you for the rapporteur's story. Like what I asked the Alternative's rapporteur a little earlier, I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party: do you think that every penny invested in these areas of dispute directly harms the Palestinians, or do you think that there may be jobs for Palestinians linked to investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145914	Overall, it is only to the immense harm to the people who live there, and it is imposed by those who have illegally occupied the territory in which they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145924	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145926	Yes, I understand that this is the overall situation, but will the Socialist People's Party reject the fact that there are simply Palestinians who have jobs that arise from these investments?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119145940	Well, I think that Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen would look differently if he had been in the West Bank, where people were forced by taking their land, their livelihoods from them, and even inflict upon them the infinite humiliation that, in order for them to survive at all, they would have to take a job with those who have stolen their land.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150006	Thank you to the rapporteur. So there are not three brief comments that I am very sorry about, even if you try to press many times. Then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150027	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate and the views. I welcome the great commitment and interest that there is in this matter as well. I also welcome the very broad majority in the Danish Parliament for the line that Denmark must stand for and be known for, namely that settlements are illegal and undermine a two-state solution. Without the existence of the settlements, we would not have had the debate today. With broad consensus, the Folketing has adopted texts relating to commitments in and with settlements on several occasions. By May 2016 with V 53. The government is, of course, behind the adoption and advises against strengthening settlements through commitments with them. The government actively supports the EU and UN Security Council's distinction between Israel and the occupied territories by enforcing the territorial clause. And the government supports continuing the work of informing Danish and public investors about the government's views. The Government's conclusion is that the state, together with the aforementioned policy, together with the previously mentioned guidelines on the social responsibility of Danish investors, provides a workable framework. There are still dilemmas, and almost all the rapporteurs have mentioned them today, but investors must then also stand up for their own concrete actions. The text for which there is now a broad majority and which will be adopted in a few days' time reflects all this very well. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150212	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150215	Thank you. So, on an important foreign policy issue such as this one, one can say that the Foreign Minister's words are very important and important in sending a signal. And that's why I just wanted to hear about something. Because when the Foreign Minister says that Danish investors have an obligation to measure the investments they make, he is, of course, right. But will the Foreign Minister not confirm that all investors have a duty to follow UN guidelines as well as private and public authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150257	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150258	After all, I had to deal with that question at the beginning. We have also concluded that what we have now is a framework. The UN is not a legislative body in this way. We have a framework, and that is what we have also discussed today. And we think the government is working well with that framework. Then there will still be some doubts that may fall outside or within the framework. Well, that's what it's all about, isn't it? It's a question of doubt. And there it must be the investors who are responsible for what line they choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150335	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150337	Thank you. It is quite true that no sanctions have been imposed against the Israeli Government in relation to these settlements, such as the Russian annexation of Crimea. But that does not change the fact that it is part of the guidelines that investors have an obligation to follow them. And there I would just like to appeal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make sure that this is something that he actively makes sure to get emphasised, both on the Parliament's platform today. It is quite easy and can be done just when I have finished speaking and forward-looking with Danish investors, so that there is no doubt as to what the government's line is. This will send out a clear signal to which everyone should listen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150422	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150424	I think that a very clear signal is being sent by a very broad majority in the Folketing today. It is not the case that international law can derive from a general ban on investment in companies whose business covers the occupied territories. But it is clear, and this is what was also sent out a clear signal today that the commitments that benefit settlements do not strengthen the possibilities for a two-state solution, on the contrary. That is why the government advises against such investments if they strengthen the settlements. At the same time, we make guidelines on the social responsibility of Danish investors available to the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150505	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150508	Thank you to the Foreign Minister for a clear speech, at least about Denmark's support for the UN resolutions and international law. I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister what he thinks about the database established under the auspices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on the companies operating in the occupied territories.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150536	I haven't had any particular thoughts about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150542	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150546	Does this mean that the Foreign Minister will not say today whether the Foreign Minister and Denmark support the idea that there should be an open database such as that established under the auspices of the United Nations, or is it unsolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150602	We are dealing with the things and the guidelines that currently lie on the part of the United Nations. If I am going to go deeper into the answer to this question, I would ask that a written question be asked and I would be happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150618	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen for a rounding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119150627	Thank you. I would like to thank everyone for a good and constructive debate. I am very, very pleased that today we have a situation in which we can stand together broadly in the Folketing about the importance of supporting responsible investments, both in the area of illegal settlements, but also in other conflict situations. It's important that we can share this. Many companies, municipalities and pension funds are already doing a great deal of work to avoid harm and to comply with international guidelines, and I think we owe it to them to send out a clear signal from the Danish Parliament today and that is fortunately what we are doing with the proposal for adoption that all parties except the Danish People's Party have agreed on and we owe them all the help they need in order to be able to take responsibility. In other words, there should be no bad excuses for not following the guidelines given to investors by the United Nations. So I am pleased that today we have managed to gather together on the responsibility Denmark has to contribute to maintaining international guidelines in relation to responsible investments. I hope that this can be the first step towards Denmark becoming a country that takes the lead when it comes to responsible investment, a country that can dress Danish companies, private and public investors so well that billions of pension funds and investments can contribute to fairer, peaceful and sustainable development around the world, and I think it can be done. I think we can achieve a situation where, one day, pension savers and tax-paying citizens in the municipalities can breathe relief and be assured that their money is not used against international guidelines but is used to lift social responsibility. But it takes a lot of effort. This requires that pension customers shout loudly and that municipalities and pension funds take responsibility, but it also requires that the Danish state, with the government at its head, ensure that our money is not used to violate human rights, to harm the climate or to create conflict. Finally, allow me to address the claim made several times in the debate by the Danish People's Party's rapporteur, namely that Israeli settlements should benefit the Palestinians in the occupied territories. As Mrs Bech Poulsen said, I believe that everyone who has visited the occupied territories has no doubt that this is not the case and that, on the contrary, it is completely wrong. I myself have been in the occupied territories on several occasions, and I would like to reply to Mr Tugendhat's question. Claus Kvist Hansen clearly says: No, that is not the case. When you steal the country of the Palestinians, when you break international law, when you break private property for private homes and agricultural land, when you steal the Palestinian water, when you steal their natural resources, you strangle the economy. So no, it is not the case that it would be an economic problem if the settlements were removed tomorrow. On the contrary, the removal of settlements is a prerequisite for the economically sustainable development of the Palestinian territories; it is a prerequisite for a sustainable Palestinian state. Having said that, I have not said at all what can be said is the daily problem for the Palestinians, which is that these settlers repeatedly commit violent acts against peaceful, innocent children and adult Palestinians who have done nothing but walk on a street or try to go to school. This happens with impunity in the eyes of the Israeli military and is therefore a daily violation of human rights, which is totally unacceptable and which helps to create a great many of the tensions that we are experiencing and which, unfortunately, sometimes lead to unacceptable violence. So no, it is not the case that the settlements benefit the Palestinians. On the contrary, the removal of settlements is a prerequisite for peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119151104	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119151106	Thank you. I just thought I'd clear up a little misunderstanding. At no time have I spoken or suggested to the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten or the Socialist People's Party that the settlements should be of benefit to the Palestinians. What I have been talking about is whether the investments, i.e. crowns and ears put by investment firms in the disputed areas can be of benefit to the Palestinians. Just to get it settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119151134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119151135	I think that many of us have misunderstood the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Anyway, what are these investments? What we are talking about is investment in construction, for example, which is taking place on land, which has just been stolen from the Palestinians. One has just taken a field where once an olive farmer had his olive trees, razed the trees with the ground against private property, contrary to international law, and then built illegal settlements. It can't be more illegal than that. That is why, of course, these investments are exactly the opposite of anything that would benefit the Palestinians economically. It is a clear crime against international law, and it is also a total suffocation of the possibilities of having a sustainable Palestinian state, not least because these settlements are, after all, the cliff up and between the Palestinian villages, thereby also destroying the opportunity to move freely back and forth in the occupied territories, which are a prerequisite for a viable economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119151244	Thank you. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen? No? Well, then the books are going to go up pretty much straight. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will not take place until Tuesday, 23 January 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180119151306	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 23 January 2018, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Then I shall also refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
