ParlaMint-DK_20180412100020	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100026	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Enhedslisten in Nordsjællands Storkreds, Øjvind Vilsholm, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing from 9 April 2018, after Maria Reumert Gjerding resigned on 8 April 2018. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100054	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 103 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100128	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100141	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The bill was adopted unanimously by 104 votes. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100209	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100235	This is a good idea. We have had some questions along the way, and we have been able to clarify them. We didn't quite agree on the wording and on the translation. It's kind of funny that we should discuss translation. We agreed that it was mistranslated, but the text was not changed. That is what we have voted on. What I asked at first reading was how we are going to make sure that some money is going to deal with this issue and, of course, it is above all those who administer international law that need it. No answer has been given to this. I raised the question at first reading and I would ask the Minister to consider how the hell we can find the necessary money. The Red Cross has pointed out that there is a lack of money and that we need to find it. It might be very good to get an answer to it now that we are dealing with the matter and having to vote on it, because otherwise it will just be a nice formulation, but who is taking care of these interests? Fortunately, it is not in Denmark that one destroys cultural values when one disagrees, and when there are crises and wars. That is why I think it is important that we follow it completely, including with the grass roots who have to work with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100350	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Still ain't got no fuckin' word that shouldn't be used. Here you go, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100400	Thank you. And thank you for your support for the proposal. It is, of course, the case that legislation is adopted, and then things have to be put into practice afterwards. That is why I cannot stand here from the platform today and say: yes, there must be more resources, and they must come from there and from there. It's on a different track. But I listen to the rapporteur's request and then we take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100424	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100429	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The bill has been passed unanimously. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100510	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100528	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100605	I am waiting to open the debate until those Members of Parliament who do not need to be present have left the Chamber preferably as quietly as possible. Then we need to be calm, because now we are starting the debate. Minister of Employment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412100730	Thank you. And thank you for the opportunity today that we can begin an important debate here in the Danish Parliament on a motion for a resolution tabled by a wide range of parties, that an independent external analysis should be carried out on whether the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are working. After all, since its accession, the government has had it, I think, absolutely crucially, that it should be worthwhile to work. Therefore, there must also be a real difference between going to work every day and being on public support. However, it is clear that we must also have a safety net for those people who, for a period of time, cannot get a job, and in this respect, cash aid remains a reasonable subsidy. I think that in every way we have found a good balance between a reasonable level of dependency on the one hand and a real incentive to work on the other, which the government is fully committed to. It also seems that our policy is working. The number of people in the cash benefits system has fallen, people are conforming to the rules and taking the jobs they can get, big and small. Since the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule came into force in April 2016, we have continuously seen a decrease in the number of persons in the cash benefits system. This is fantastic news in every way, and basically it is something that should be welcomed from a social policy perspective in particular. In December 2017, there were 19,600 fewer full-time persons in the cash benefits system than in April 2016, when seasonal variations are taken into account. These are today's new figures, which we have published. Looking at the 16,200 persons who were in the cash benefits system in 2016, 66.700 of them had left the system in December 2017. The big fall is, of course, linked to the progress of the Danish labour market. In addition to the many people who have left the cash benefits system for employment or training, several cash benefits recipients have also been employed alongside their benefits. The proportion of ordinary employment in addition to the benefit has risen from just under 5.5%. in July 2016 to just over 7.5 per cent. in December 2017, where 10,000 people worked alongside their cash benefits. This suggests that many people adapt to the rules and take jobs, small jobs, which can be an important step into the Danish labour market and thus also help to ensure that you can support yourself in the longer term. It is absolutely crucial to me that our policy works, that more people get into employment and that more people benefit from everything that comes with a job. It's like a cheek egg, you might say. This is good for the individual, who thus acquires a completely different quality of life. It is also good for the family, and it is especially good for their children, because growing up in a family where Mom and Dad go to work makes a difference. Having colleagues and having a community, something to stand up to and the opportunity to support yourself are all really, really positive and something that I think is absolutely crucial for people. Let me make it clear that I basically believe that knowledge and evidence are important, even when political decisions are taken. For the same reason, the Ministry of Employment has prepared and published an impact analysis of the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. The impact assessment shows that, overall, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have had a positive effect on the departure from cash benefits to employment or training. The effect is applicable to recipients over 30 years of age who are either single or married and who meet the residence requirement. The analysis has examined these groups separately to look at cash benefits recipients who were not affected by other regulatory changes during the same period. We know that the economic situation in the same period has improved considerably, and well for that. The analysis also takes this into account. The results of the analysis have been cleared of cyclical influences. In other words, in Danish, the rules have had an impact even if there had been no good business situation. This means that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule in isolation have increased the likelihood that cash benefits recipients have entered work or have started training. Thus, the impact assessment shows that cash benefits recipients are less days spent on cash benefits than before the reform. The analysis finds that the cash benefits courses in the analysis have been shortened by 3.4 days. This corresponds to about 190 full - time persons. If it is assumed that the recipients of cash benefits, who are covered by other reforms and therefore not included in the analysis, experience the same shortening, this corresponds to about 600 full-time persons in structural terms. It is clear that there has been some discussion about this, in other words a discussion about 190 full-time people versus 600 full-time people. I would therefore like to make it clear today that, from the beginning of my communication on the analysis, I have stressed that it shows an effect of 190 full-time people and that the figure of 600 people must be taken with a number of reservations. Thus, it is clear from the press release that the analysis looks at a subset and that the 600 full-time employees result from converting the analysis's conclusions into the whole group of cash benefits recipients. In other words, there is no concealment of that. The conversion is not part of the analysis's conclusions and it assumes that the whole group of cash benefits recipients has responded in the same way as the subset. The Ministry has made the conversion because it is relevant to assess how the reform may have affected the overall group, regardless of the fact that it was not possible in the impact analysis itself. It is not clear whether the remaining group of cash benefits recipients has responded more than, less than or equivalently, those we call the analysis population. However, it is certain that the overall effect would be greater than the 190 people. Now that a large and thorough impact analysis has been carried out, I do not think there is any reason to spend more resources and therefore more money on external consultants having to do another study. The impact analysis has been prepared by the Ministry of Employment's analysis unit. Thus, the government makes use of exactly the same type of impact analysis as the former Socialist-led government did. Thus, under the previous government, impact analyses were carried out by the Ministry of Employment's analysis unit on e.g. young initiatives in the cash assistance reform, the impact of ordinary training on the labour market relationship of the unemployed and the impact of benefits on young people in the cash assistance system. I appreciate that, of course, because it allows us to pursue an evidence-based policy. I also note that several Social Democratic Ministers at the time were satisfied with the analysis work, where the Ministry of Employment's analysis unit could provide evidence to the best methodical standard. And just to draw attention to that, it was then when they themselves were ministers. The impact assessment is not an external analysis, but the analysis has been drawn up at a high scientific level and is thus fully in line with the work and methodical approach of my predecessors as well. There has been a great deal of interest in the analysis and the importance of the reform. It is gratifying that we are now having a debate on such an important subject and such an important reform, which must, of course, ensure that more people enter jobs and are not permanently parked on cash benefits. However, I have also noted that no one has criticised the method, results or quality of the analysis. I'm kind of happy about that. As I have said, in the analysis it has been necessary to isolate the effects of the ceiling and the hourly rule from other reforms and rules, which may also have affected the recipients of cash benefits during the period. This means that there will be a number of cash benefits recipients who are also included in the phase of job reform, but who are therefore not included in the analysis. Thus, the analysis of almost a third of the recipients of cash benefits is seen, but in turn the pure effect of the rule is measured. The analysis does not take into account the impact of the fact that cash benefits recipients have more small jobs and thus come closer to the labour market. At the same time, the analysis does not consider whether the reform has influenced the approach to the cash assistance system. The analysis looks at whether more people are going into employment or training. After all, education and employment are signs of people moving closer to the labour market and thus, fortunately, further away from public support. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that the government's focus is that it must always pay to work no matter what. When the individual Dane makes an effort, takes a job big and small, you should also be able to feel it on your own economy. It is common sense that there is a noticeable economic difference between whether you have a job or are on cash aid, and I fundamentally believe that people are best off if they can support themselves and thus contribute to society. That is why it makes no sense to support the motion for a resolution which several parties have wanted to discuss here today. However, in addition to today's debate, we will also have the opportunity to return to even more discussions on this subject when we have in a short space of time until more consultations taking place within the Parliament's Employment Committee. And I shall look forward to both that and the debate today with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412101708	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412101713	I just have to say to the Minister that several times during the proceedings and the last few years we have heard both the Prime Minister and the Employment Minister also during the proceedings the bourgeois friends over on the other hand say: this cash benefits ceiling gets many in employment. Nor do I wish to question the analysis itself, but I would question the press release itself and what the Minister gets from the analysis, because it says anyway, although it says in the analysis that it is not possible to compare the groups, that they have been counted together and that they are 600 people. At that time, we did not talk about education, we talked only about employment, and now we are also taking training into it. So I would certainly say that here one is really trying to distort the image to something that is not correct. But I can also just ask the following: can the Minister confirm that the Minister will make it sound as if the ceiling on cash benefits is responsible for so many people coming from cash benefits and in work, which is a good thing that the ceiling on cash benefits has only the effect of 190 people getting into work or training?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412101822	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412101824	I can confirm one hundred percent of what I have said in my speech, which is the answer to that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen asks. It is a subset that has been investigated and, as the press release says, it has the effect of being called 190 full-time people. Then I would also like to stress that it is now documented that it has an effect, which there has been much discussion about, even before I became Minister for Employment. I have also had the opportunity to discuss this with Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen earlier. But I can also say that this is also a question of politics and what is right and proper. I think it is common sense to have a 225-hour rule and a cash-aid ceiling, and that is also why the Social Democrats have recently announced that the 225-hour rule and the cash-aid ceiling will be maintained on the day one might be in the unfortunate situation of taking over government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412101914	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412101916	In other words, I hear the Minister confirm here that the ceiling on cash aid, which has hit a great many people and which was thought to have got a great many people into employment at the time, has only got 190 people in employment or in education. However, can the Minister not also confirm that the ceiling on cash benefits, which has then been raised and said several times on Facebook and all sorts of other places, is what makes so many people who, fortunately, have gone from cash to work, actually only 190 people and not the 16,000, 17,000, 18,000 people who are now being heard about. It is only 190 people where it can be said that this is due to the ceiling on cash benefits. Can the Minister just confirm this once and for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102000	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102002	I can't confirm any of that, as sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is trying to put me in my mouth. On the other hand, I can tell Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, I hope that if you could not hear my ministerial speech, you will read it again. There is a very detailed explanation of both what the analysis is of importance, but not least that I welcome the fact that it has then had an impact, because the analysis demonstrates precisely that this is, regardless of what the economy looks like. Then I note that the Social Democratic Party has copied government policy. If you take over government, you will continue with the 225-hour rule and the cash aid ceiling, which I must say is new and deserves a yellow beam on TV 2 News.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102043	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102046	Thank you so much. Nor can I fully understand that the Minister is out in a magnificent painting. Whether you are in favour of or against the ceiling on cash benefits, it is surely the real information that must come out, and now it has come out that it is 190 who have come into work because of this. The fact that the figure is considerably higher when it comes to the reduction in the number of cash benefits recipients is quite fine, but this is due to something quite different, because it is due to the economic situation. And that raises the question of whether it is the case that the unemployed take a job when it is there, and there is the answer that yes, they do, and that means that the system works, and that has nothing to do with the ceiling on cash benefits. In any case, the Minister cannot prove that. Then why is it that the minister wants to do this great painting and tell you that it's many, many more? When he gets on the blade, like that, among other things. happens in Jyllands-Posten, he must crawl to the cross and say that he can only document it in relation to the 190, but that he is not at all interested in how many have come into work, but is only interested in whether there is an effect. Why the whole gorgeous painting?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102147	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102148	I am, in effect, interested in whether people get into employment. That's why I'm happy every morning when I get up and can see that things are going really, really well in Denmark. Social democracy has the view that it is in spite of the government. That's it, sir. Bjarne Laustsen and Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has told me many times in the last year in consultation. I have a more nuanced approach because I say that it is because of government policy, but also because we have a favourable economic situation. And I am actually rather sorry that the main interest of the Social Democratic Party now is to try to discuss whether it has an effect or not. It has an effect, it's documented. That scaremongering, sir. Bjarne Laustsen's party has been running around the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, you can just say it doesn't hold water. And I suppose that's why the Social Democratic Party is crawled to the cross and deep inside a festive publication says that you then continue with the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule in case you had to take over government power. It's kind of interesting, because why don't you take a fight right away if you're so against this policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102254	Here you go, sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102256	Thank you. There wasn't much response to the painting, but a whole lot of other things, and that can be good enough. But what is of interest is whether the rules we have on people being available work. And they work when there's a job to get. Then it is of no use that the Minister should come and say that it is because of some very, very different things. After all, the government did not take over a craftsman's offer, they took over a well-run business, and fortunately it has gone well with employment and the business cycle, but why does the Minister need to tell you something that he cannot prove, namely that there has been so many more in the work • the Prime Minister has also been out and mention the figure 16,000 etc. Why, then, do we not talk about this, because that is the real end of the impact assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102352	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102353	Now you may get a little confused when you hear that question. At least I'm doing it, but it doesn't take much to get Mr. Knox back. Bjarne Laustsen asks me questions. First of all, it is a beautiful picture that was created in Denmark. It is not a wonderful painting, because it is a real picture that things are going really, really well, and I do not understand why you should be so sad that things are going well in Denmark. It's really weird that sir. Bjarne Laustsen, who I know is interested in getting people into the labour market, now has to face up to the fact that things are going well. That is why I have to say that what I note is that, firstly, our policy works, and secondly, it infects that things are going well in the world, fortunately also on Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102427	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102432	Thank you. In foreign policy we have a principle of proportionality, i.e. we have a principle of proportionality. in a war does not strike harder than that there is balance in things. For example: Is it the case in Israel at the moment that people are being killed crazyly because some people are doing demonstrations and things like that? That's the proportionality issue here. You can rejoice, and I suppose we all do, at everyone who comes in ordinary and regular work and anyone who gets an education. I guess we don't have to discuss and suspect each other for that. Those are the facts. But it is difficult to get a minister to admit that at best it is a question of 100 getting to work and approx. Ninety have been trained. And when you see what brutal methods you have used to do that, I don't think you should be happy on behalf of the people who are affected by these rules. And that's the whole problem, that is, you just close your eyes to the fact that people with children in Denmark have been poored by this and that it has had a huge price for thousands of people that these 190 people have moved on in their lives. What we are trying to attack is the proportionality of government policy... it is completely out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102552	Well, I see that as something that reminds me of a rapporteur's speech. We have political differences, and that is fair enough. After all, I am no longer a foreign policy rapporteur. I have been in the past in my life, and I also know the concept of proportionality, but I do not think we should transfer foreign policy to Danish employment policy. At least I'm not strong enough to do that. But to that it must be said that if Mr. Christian Juhl has the position, and I know that Enhedslisten has, and I also know that Enhedslisten has begun, after the experience gained during Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt, to discuss with himself whether to say stop something before, in relation to what you add votes to the vote I just think the rapporteur should be quite honest and say that it is then a red line, Mr. Christian Juhl has drawn today in the Assembly Hall, in relation to the fact that if the Social Democracy were to gain government power and continue the ceiling for cash aid and the 225-hour rule, the Enhedslisten cannot be a parliamentary basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102641	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102643	Now I think the Minister should leave us to draw red lines. I just want to say that one party is not alone in deciding the policy I hope not. So, neither the Left nor the Social Democrats have more than 50%. of the votes. And that is why it is a question of discussing the content, and that is to say, in relation to the instruments that you put up and the result that you get, any sober politician, even a liberal or a liberal, should consider: how hard will I take action to get 100 or 190 out of this system, and what is the price for those who fail to get a job because the recovery is not so effective that they have an opportunity? It is common decency and common morality that you also look at it and not just look at the small effect you got from your policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102735	I think that for every Dane who is in the happy situation to go from being on transfer income to entering the labour market or in education, one should welcome it. Everything is to be welcomed. Even if you would like a higher figure, you should be pleased about that, I would say to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl. And what was the discussion when the government introduced the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule was: Did it have an effect? Now it is so documented that it has an effect, and then the discussion is about whether the effect is large enough, compared to the fact that other parties at that time said it would have no significance at all. And that's politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102811	Sir. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102814	Thank you. After all, we agree that it is very good that more people have entered the labour market. We also agreed that the economic situation has changed a great deal. However, I have a question with regard to the statements that have been made in the press for some time. For example: On 9 January 2018, the Prime Minister stated at the press conference in the Prime Minister's Office that the ceiling on cash benefits has meant that 16,700 fewer Danes are on cash benefits. Is it true what the Prime Minister said in the Prime Minister's Office on 9 January? Is it all the truth that there were 16,700 more people in jobs or education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102901	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102902	But I really do not think I can come much closer than saying that there are two elements that we can welcome now. One is that things are going well in Denmark, and in fact they are doing well in Europe as well. This means that we will have more jobs created. This is what the Social Democratic Party says happens despite the government... it always puzzles me a little. The second is about the framework conditions. What also matters to create jobs is whether we have better framework conditions and whether it will be easier for companies to compete. With regard to what the Prime Minister may have said to a press conference on 9 January 2018, I must say that I do not follow all the Prime Minister's press meetings, because I usually either sit in consultation or have political negotiations with the Social Democratic Party. So if you want an answer to that, I'd be happy to answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102948	Thank you. Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412102951	I did not really get an answer because the Minister had been in consultation somewhere at that time but I must then take that as an answer and then I must try to ask questions about it later. However, I would still like to ask the Minister whether he would not just admit that it is the economic situation that has caused so many people to get to work and fortunately for that; we two fully agree on that and that the effect of the cash aid ceiling has been overestimated and, at the very least, the austerity measures that have been taken in this area have been overestimated. It has been possible to measure that 190 people have moved on from it. One hundred are in employment and 90 are in education. That's the effect of the cash benefits ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103040	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103041	Just to make it clear: I don't know what I was doing on January 9, 2018 I can find out if I look in my calendar. I say that I usually either sit in consultation or have negotiations with the Social Democratic Party, because I meet with them on a daily basis with the Danish People's Party and a large number of other parties. However, in view of the effect of introducing the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, it has to be noted that it does. I can only regret that you do not want to recognise it, but what I think is most interesting is that if you are so opposed to the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, why do you say that you want to extend it if you take over government? It is simply impossible for me to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103124	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103128	Thank you very much. I was also involved in the marathon negotiations here in the Danish Parliament on the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. There is one thing I have thought about, and it may be that I should have read about it somewhere, but can the Minister tell me what is the time target for getting the number of people in employment that was said to be going into employment at the time when the ceiling for cash aid was being set? How long has one given oneself to get the approx. 600 people in employment, which was repeated from the chair of the cash aid ceiling, should be put into employment? What has been the objective of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103203	I do not have Jørn Neergaard Larsen's speech or, for that matter, the negotiating meetings that were in fresh memory on the platform here today, but what is the point is that the ceiling on cash benefits has been introduced to make it economically more attractive to get a job, that is to say to make the difference between being on public support and being in a job more significant. I think that is in fact common sense. The same applies to the 225-hour rule. I can also add that initiatives have also been taken since we introduced the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. Among other things: After all, a large majority has set aside 260 million. kr. to make an extraordinary effort towards some of the cash benefits recipients who have unfortunately been in the cash benefits system for more than five years. Sir. Torsten Gejl is also fully aware of that aspect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103254	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103255	We have been delighted to be involved in shaping the effort, which is of course an individual effort, taking a position on the needs of the individual and putting together an employment effort entirely according to the needs of the individual. Nevertheless, I find it interesting that the former Minister for Employment has stood on the floor and said that it was a very, very clear objective that 600 more people should be put into employment. But is it within 1 year, 2 years, 10 years, 20 years or 100 years? If you don't have some kind of objective, it just becomes a complete rubber band.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103333	What is at the root of the political decision and also of the legislative proposal is that it has an estimated effect of 600 people in structural terms, and that is the way it is calculated. So it is, if I may say so, over the years. But that may vary depending on the situation. I think the ambition was 700 people if I am to be even more precise. That is what was discussed at the time. There I have to say that nothing makes me say that the government has made the wrong decision. On the contrary, we have made a correct decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103414	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103417	Thank you. I have to say that I am actually in favour of this resolution because I am genuinely curious about how we do these things the best we can. How do we create performance systems that enable as many people as possible to get into work or closer to the labour market? There I feel that attitudes and politics are one thing. It is always legitimate to have opinions, but does the Minister not agree that we also need knowledge and that, as politicians with our opinions, we need to be challenged by knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103507	Yes, I am one hundred percent in agreement with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. I guess there are two things that are crucial, both when you're a member of parliament and when you're a minister, and that's knowledge and reality. And usually these two things are also connected. I do not think that there is any reason, if we are to deal with the motion for a resolution, to carry out another study because we want an outsider to carry out that study rather than using the Ministry of Employment's analysis unit, which I do not think can be challenged in any way in terms of being driven by a political campaign element. It is not because I say that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen suggests it. I do not do that at all; I have the utmost respect for Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, because Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen has also been a minister and therefore knows that the official work works across who may sit and have the power of government. However, I would also like to make it clear today that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are not alone in our employment efforts either. We have spent hours and days together to discuss what else we can take of initiatives, and I think it is clear to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen that I am very concerned that we are looking at one, you might say, re-enhancing our Danish employment system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103618	Here you go, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103619	That is quite clear to me, and I think that we are doing good together and, fortunately, also in broad conciliation circles. This is important because it has to work for a long time, but I also believe that the Minister agrees with me that everything cannot always be the same. I think we all recognize that. We would like to see how things work in the best way possible, and then it is a political attitude to say: this is the choice we have made. It then has the effect that 100 have entered work and 90 have entered training. It is perfectly legitimate to measure it, and the Minister does, but you just can't take it as if there is such a broad-based knowledge about it. I have great respect for the ministry's analysis work, but in those contexts where we have such large and comprehensive systems, it is just really, really useful to be challenged by independent knowledge. That is why I wish we could go that way, including with regard to the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, because then we could move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103721	It is, of course, a perfectly legitimate view that one can have. I do not think there is any reason to sacrifice even more strength and resources in this discussion, because it is now documented that there is an effect of the 225-hour rule and the cash aid ceiling. Then you can always discuss whether it's a big enough effect. That's it, sir. Christian Juhl asks: Does the political initiatives that have been taken aim? I believe that, and I believe that I can defend it in relation to the level of performance that we have in Denmark, but it is a bit of a different discussion. But I am not going to start an external analysis work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103802	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103803	[Sound emission]... 4,000 households with two children have had reduced housing support from 3,000 DKK. for DKr 1,300. because of the ceiling on cash benefits. How does the minister think that affects the child's upbringing?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103822	What is best for children in Denmark is one thing, sir. Karsten Hønge, and that's that your parents have a job. That is the only thing we can at least see can be of real importance. It should be understood in this way that if you grow up with a mother and a father who is on cash benefits, all experience and all analysis and knowledge show that, unfortunately, you have an unfortunate one, you might say, the possibility of falling into the cash benefits system yourself. So what I am working for is that as many people as possible are going to the Danish labour market, and that is what drives my policy on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103904	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103905	That leads me elegantly to question No. 2, where even on days when we have sunshine and winds on all bike paths, you might be able to calculate that 600 people have come to work. During the same period, it is calculated that 10,500 children are druncated below what we used to have as a poverty limit. This means that every time one person has entered work, 17 children have fallen below the poverty line. Is that fair? Is that the future scenario the Minister sees?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412103941	I welcome the fact that some 20,000 people have left the cash assistance system since April 2016. That's what today's numbers say. I think that's fantastic news. There are two things you have to fight for. The first element is that we must fight for fewer people entering the cash benefits system. The second element is that we must fight to ensure that there are as many people as possible who can leave our cash assistance system. That is what I think is absolutely crucial political. But listen to me. If you are concerned about the fact that you think the government is pursuing a wrong policy, which is fair enough, then I also hope that in the Chamber you will say quite frankly whether you want to do it on the day you get the power of government. We do not have an answer to that, but we will have that in a moment, but I think that is actually an important discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104023	Thank you. Then there are no more comments or questions. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104049	This proposal, which is made by a large group of parties, is precisely that of having an independent analysis of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. In this context, we must also say that analyses have been carried out and many studies have been carried out on the impact of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. It can always be discussed how many people have entered the labour market after that. After all, we have the figures that the Minister has mentioned here from the platform. We can also see the effect of a lot of people asking around the municipalities who have had 225 hours of work, and then you can discuss whether it is because of the business cycle or whether it is because of the legislation. It may also be that it is both that cause it. We now believe this in the Danish People's Party, namely that both contribute to the fact that there are many who come out. One of the basic principles of the Danish People's Party has been that if you are on cash benefits, whether you are single or have children, you should not be able to get more out of it than if you take a job at a minimum wage. That is one of the most important points. It has to be the case that you have more to go to work at a minimum wage than to be on cash benefits. After all, we have seen that with the subsidies that are being given, it lags behind. With the expenses you have when you have a job, you might well ask if it pays to go to work. I'd like it to be able to do that. For this reason, the Danish People's Party also supported the ceiling for cash aid, and we supported the 225-hour rule. What then lies in it, when you look at the effort there is, is that, of course, you also need help on cash benefits if you cannot find a job yourself, and that is why we also got written into the law, that the municipalities, the job centres must be helpful in finding a job if you cannot, and there are a lot of people who have benefited from it, and of course they must also look at it if you are on cash benefits and cannot take a job. That is what is a little sad, because there we just have to see that the authors of the motion for a resolution have said far along the way that as long as they get the benefit, so bad about the effort being made. Peace be with it, and we do not need to make an effort for them. There we have a different approach in the Danish People's Party. We want to help them into the labour market. We would like to look at what it takes, and that is why the Danish People's Party also got this pool launched.More people are going to join us, where the pile was turned, and then it turned out that a lot of people had been on cash benefits for many years that should not have been at all, and some of them had also been hit by the cash benefits ceiling. That is precisely what the problem is, that is, if you just let people go on cash aid without making an effort, and we just have to recognise that it has happened over the ages under changing governments. This was done under the former SRSF government and SR government. This has happened under the former Left Government under Anders Fogh Rasmussen. This has happened under the former government under Poul Nyrup Rasmussen in its time back in the 1990s. That is why, when we look at what needs to be done, it is of course also important that we look at what needs to be done to see what assistance is needed for individuals to move on to the labour market. Is it an education they need to be helped with, or is it just a simple job? And, of course, they need that help, because I freely recognise that there are many people who go on cash benefits who cannot just go out and sell themselves to an employer. They need help to convince an employer that they are just the person to take in. We simply also need to look at what education they have, what qualification they should have, and that is what we are looking at now, where among other things. Social democracy also helps to look at it over at the Ministry. But I do not believe that doing an independent analysis will help anything or that it will change anything. I actually think it's just a waste of money. I believe, on the other hand, that we can have an added effect by asking each municipality what the situation is with their cash benefits recipients. How many people have come to work? How many people are in full-time work? How many people have had these 225 hours? How many have they moved on with the effort needed to get them away from cash benefits? That doesn't help an analysis. And we can also see that in the analysis that's done here. These aren't the numbers that come here. I believe that there is a greater effect of asking the individual municipality what action they are taking, and then we have to recognise that there is a great difference between the efforts made by the municipalities and that is what we are working on, namely that the municipalities do not actually comply with the legislation and what we expect from them. However, we cannot support a new independent analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104601	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104604	I wanted to ask something quite different, but then the rapporteur says something that makes me think: that was strange. The rapporteur says that it does not mean so much with the benefits, but with the efforts that are being made. Can the rapporteur then confirm that the Danish People's Party has helped save 1 billion? kr. on mentoring schemes and on qualification for these very people? This means that we have a Danish People's Party that cuts the benefits with one hand and at the same time says that it has nothing to do with it, and with the other hand cuts down on the opportunities to get started. Can the rapporteur not confirm: is it not true that the DF has voted to save 1 billion? kr. on mentoring and upgrading for these very people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104645	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says there will be savings on mentoring and upgrading. Well, the municipalities can put on a mentor at any time, nothing has changed about that. And I want to say about upgrading and activation efforts, and what now is that when I talk about what to do to help the cash aid recipients, it is to look directly at education, not that they just have to go out and go somewhere and have nothing out of it. They may get out six weeks somewhere, and then they say it's upskilling. However, it does not help if they are to have a longer-term education which they need some training to complete. That is where I say that you have to take the individual cash benefits recipients and match them to the job opportunities there are, and then look at what it is for an upskill and what it is for courses they should have. It is not upskilling as such to go out in a company or be in some useful job. It's not upgrading as such. You have to have a course. It may be at an AMU centre that you need a course or whatever is possible to adapt to the jobs for which employers lack labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104753	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104755	The picture is that the Danish People's Party has helped to create a cash aid ceiling that makes 190 people get into employment. Then the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party stands here and says: Well that is not the most important thing; the most important thing is that there is a better effort. So I say, what about the billion you helped save? The rapporteur then admits that this has been done, but we would like to see upgrading. I just have to ask: does the rapporteur recognise that in that billion there is also upskilling? This means that, firstly, money is being removed from them and, secondly, the possibility of them being trained is being removed, they are getting started. So it seems a little thin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104838	Well, we haven't removed the opportunity to get started. What we are also working on, and Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen very well, is that they have to adapt, that they have to have the courses that can provide jobs. That's what we're working on now. But one of the things I can see is that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's party... I don't think it's Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's party. Leif Lahn Jensen himself has helped to ensure that thousands of recipients of cash benefits have not been able to obtain clarification because they have not been able to obtain a programme of resources to provide clarification. Thousands of people are trapped. That's why the Danish People's Party got more people to go with it. We'll turn the pile around and make sure they get a qualification. That's some of it, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen's party might be missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104923	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412104925	Thank you very much and thank you for the rapporteur's comments. Now I know that the rapporteur also has a good sense of craftsmanship, and it is important, when you are a craftsman, that you use the right tool, because otherwise the work will not be done properly. In other words, a tool has been used here which deals with a ceiling on cash benefits and where it can only be demonstrated that 190 people have been put into work. Is it good enough that the effect is not greater? Thousands of cash aid recipients are still missing. We got the second day paper that there are 48 000 young people between the ages of 15 and 24 without work. As the rapporteur said, it must be something out there in the municipalities, because what is the question here is whether the tools available to get the recipients of cash benefits into work are not there and whether it is not as much the business situation that makes people get to work. Because in the agreement which the rapporteur has helped to support, it can only be demonstrated that 190 people have come to work. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105023	Now it is the case that tools cannot stand alone, and just to bear in mind the 190, I think, is wrong, because the thousands of young people without education have to start training. They must have an education that can bring them to work, whether it is a vocational school they are going to or what education they are going to, and there is a need to judge the individual. It doesn't help to say that, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen chooses to do: Well peace be with what the Social Democracy ensures that you get your cash assistance, and otherwise you have to mind your own business. This is the other way we will go in the Danish People's Party. We want to ensure that they can get upskills and help to get the work they need. Therefore, we also got written into the Social Security Act that if they can't find a job themselves, they need help from the job centre to find a job or get into training.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105107	Here you go, sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105109	Well, we totally agree that you have to have the right qualifications and skills and all that. But this has nothing to do with the fact that Dansk Folkeparti has supported a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule, which you cannot prove has had any effect other than 190 people. There are many, many more who should have a job that could improve their situation. It just turns out that the tool simply to reduce the benefit has only led to 190 getting into work. Is this satisfactory for the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105144	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105146	Well, it is not satisfactory with only 190, and that is the situation if it comes to stand alone and no other bets are made. Then it's no good. Well, I totally agree with that. One cannot just say: well, now we are making an effort here, we are lowering the ceiling on cash benefits, and we are introducing a 225-hour rule, and then there are 190 people coming into work. It can't be alone. That is also why, as I said before, the Danish People's Party has ensured that it has been written into the law that those who cannot find a job themselves need help from the job centre to find a job or get into education. That is what it says, and that is what I expect the municipalities to live up to. Secondly, we cannot stand alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105223	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105225	Thank you to the rapporteur. First of all, I think that the rapporteur was quite right about something. It was, in fact, that motivation should be given, that assistance should be given to cash benefit recipients who have been outside the labour market for some time so that they can re-enter the labour market. I think the rapporteur is quite right in that respect. But then I cannot help thinking about the billions that the rapporteur has helped to save, for example. mentors and help to get them into the labour market. Does the rapporteur believe that this is a real motivation for the municipalities and that they are now really starting to help those who are on cash benefits into the labour market by saving 1 billion? kr. on the help there? Does the rapporteur think that it is the right way to save money, to save the help of the municipalities to get them on? Is this the right way to run through and give it the right results?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105333	I mean, to me, it sounds like Mr. Jan Johansen says: Now you've saved this money, and then the municipalities don't do anything. That's actually what's gonna appear to mr. Jan Johansen believes that if this money is saved, the municipalities will do nothing at all. The municipalities will still be able to give mentors away, and they will still be able to give some upskilling and guidance. So that's not it. After all, it is the reimbursement to the municipalities that is being saved away. After all, it is not the case that the possibility of the municipalities being able to do something for themselves is being removed. That's not it. But that's what's gonna come out of it, as Mr. Jan Johansen says that when this is changed, it's all standing still, and then they don't get any effort. But I can only note that there was a group I think it was in connection with more people going along, and it was something about 28,000, it was about • who was allowed to stand still while Mr. Jan Johansen's party was in government, where nothing was done to help them. It was done after the Dansk Folkeparti got this trumped through.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105441	Sir. Jan Johansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105443	I just have to ask the rapporteur once again: does the rapporteur think that it is the right motivation for the municipalities to help these people to go out and save some money that they needed to help them further? Is this the right motivation for the municipalities? Then all we had to do was take more money from them, and then more started. That is how I hear the rapporteur says it. I think it is quite wrong to save on the efforts that the rapporteur himself has stood and preached to in the platform. So I believe that this is a double backlash, while at the same time saving on the initiative and motivation of the municipalities. 'Cause they're looking at how much money they get from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105527	Yeah, maybe that's the big mistake too. For the big gain for the municipalities, each time they get one in a job, it is for cash benefits recipients, educational aid recipients, integration benefit recipients and benefit recipients each time they make an effort to get one in a job. That's the big win. It may be that Mr. Jan Johansen has the belief that the municipalities are completely blacked out and that they are not doing anything at all when this is changed. But I do have a belief that the municipalities have some talented people... I hope so because they've been working away to get the unemployed in jobs and in education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105603	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105607	I'm trying to ask sir. Bent Bøgsted on what I asked the Minister without success. So let's just make it clear that 4,000 households with two children have reduced housing support from DKK 3,000. for DKr 1,300. because of the ceiling on cash benefits. Well, I know Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted as a person who is genuinely interested in and concerned about children's relationships. What do you think, sir? Bent Bøgsted that means for children's living conditions? That's one. The second is: could it not be interesting to analyze what hitting so many children can have a bearing on how many people enter the labour market, so get this area analysed to the bottom?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105653	I understand perfectly, sir. Karsten Hønge says. But what is a little special about it is that if you are hit by the ceiling on cash benefits and then you get 6-7 hours of work a week, you can actually work your way out of the ceiling on cash benefits. It may be that cash benefits fall, but then there will be more room for housing security, which means that by 6, 7, 8 hours a week you can get what you got in housing support before, so you can work your way out of it. That is also why, as I said before, the municipalities actually have a duty to help those who cannot themselves try to find a job. I'm not saying that they should provide jobs, but they should try to help them find a job. But you have the opportunity to work your way out of it. Then there are some people who are sick and who are not supposed to go on cash benefits. They may have children and may not be able to cope with having a job, and they should not be in the social security system at all. That's why the Danish People's Party got more people working through it to turn the pile around and get them away from cash benefits. But Mr. Karsten Hønge, under the previous government, that they could still walk away, and Mr. Karsten Hønge also ensured in connection with the early and flex job reform and resource development. They find it difficult to get a resource progression. Hopefully that will be solved for now here, so I don't think there's anything to let anyone hear here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105816	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105818	If only the logic worked, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted manufactures it, that is, that now we are bothering a whole lot of children, and then after all there are some people coming to work. But that's where the elastic jumps. For even according to the most positive estimates, 600 people have entered jobs and education, while 10,500 children have fallen below the poverty threshold that we used to operate with, in other words, in a relationship called 17 poor children to one person in work. Mr. Bent Bøgsted really, that's fair? Is it really an equation, like Mr. Bent Bøgsted will vouch for?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105855	Well, then we are back at the old rhetoric, which has been for many, many years, and which the SF apparently also supports. You make sure they get a cash benefit and then peace with it then you don't have to make an effort to get them into employment. There the Danish People's Party will go another way. We want to help people get into jobs or get an education so that they can enter the labour market. It's the best solution. But those who are too sick should not, of course, go into the cash benefits system, and there we have also worked to get them out of the cash benefits system. 'Cause they're gonna have to go to another system. They need flexible jobs, they may need early retirement, or I don't know, but they shouldn't be in the cash benefits system.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105932	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412105933	Thank you. That sounds like the old rhetoric. I thought we were done with the debate that it should pay to get to work. Everything suggests that it is the case that Danish workers who can work will work, and when the business cycle is there, they are queued to get to work. Does the rapporteur really think that there is work to be done for everyone at the moment, or do we need to improve the economic situation and training opportunities so that this situation arises?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110010	Well, that can always be discussed. That depends on who you listen to, because you listen to the employers, as Mr. Christian Juhl does not, so they say that there are plenty of jobs they cannot get labour to, including unskilled jobs. So there are some to take off. Sir. Christian Juhl knows very well that there are some people who can't just go out and sell themselves to an employer themselves. They need help, and the right help to give them is that they can get help to find a job. The Job Centres can then go in and see if there are any options and that if you just get a course, you can contest a job. That is the help that the individual needs. But I totally admit that there isn't a job for everyone, depending on what kind of education you have. If you do not have an education, in some areas it may be very difficult to find jobs. Anyway, there's a lot of people who can get jobs with the right help.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110109	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110110	Well, that's not what I asked. I did not ask whether the municipalities should help them, of course they should, and they have undertaken to do so. Job centers are supposed to help people get to work. But I asked whether the rapporteur thought that there was work for everyone and whether we should not invest in education and better economic conditions rather than keep driving in the same groove all the time, because we are not getting out of it. As a consequence, the government believes that only by whipping some people will it bring them closer to the labour market. I don't believe that. I believe that you destroy people by flogging them financially, as you have seen that tens of thousands of families with children have stayed with this reform. That's why I'm saying it. After all, we have to choose the means that produce an effect, not the means that fit in with our private perceptions of things. I don't think
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110202	Then we are back on what I said in my rapporteur's speech, namely that one of the reasons why the Danish People's Party is also included in the agreement on the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule is that we believe that we should not see an advantage in being on cash aid rather than taking a job at the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110225	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110226	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that many of those affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have challenges which make it impossible for them to take up work immediately. Well, I think it's two thirds of them that are what we call activity preparation. They're not ready to take a job, they're not ready to work, so they need something else. What is the rapporteur's view of the fact that the rapporteur's party is helping to give these people an incentive to work by putting them into housing benefits if they remain on cash benefits to which they cannot respond; that a carrot is held up in front of people whom they cannot eat, that is to say, putting people in cash aid because they have to take a job that they cannot take?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110317	I think we are running in circles in the debate. Of course, if people are on cash benefits, they need help finding a job. It's been a few years since I talked to a • it was in connection with the introduction of the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule and he said: Well, I actually think it's fair enough that we are subject to some rules; we get this money without really doing anything, and I'd rather have a job, but I think it's fair enough when we don't do anything, that we should also be subject to some rules. He's got a job in the meantime, I'll tell you what. So basically, I think what this is about is that as politicians in this Parliament, we must of course ensure that the right tools are available. Then we can always discuss what the right tools are. I have never had any confidence that this indicative qualification has gained quite a lot in employment. On the other hand, a more handheld effort is needed, a more direct direction of jobs for those who have problems finding a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110428	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110429	I very much agree with the handheld effort, that is to say that we must meet people where they are and help them solve their biggest problems first, whatever it may be. But when the rapporteur thinks back to this reform and the whole debate about it and that we can now see that there are 190 people who have come out of the cash benefits, some in jobs, others in work, it has been worth it, that is, when we look at all the social poverty? Does the rapporteur feel that it is worth it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110500	I mean, like I said earlier, you can't just say it's alone. Because if you reform the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule and say that the goal is to get 190 in jobs that is the goal of the "no," then that is not enough. This is also why we in the Danish People's Party had introduced that those who could not go out and find a job themselves should have help in the job center to find a job or get into education. This did not mean that the job centre had to provide jobs, but that they needed the help they needed to find a job. If they don't get that help, it's not good enough. But that's what the law says they should have. We can't just make a law and say this law gets 190 more jobs. As I said earlier, if we are to have the right figures, we have to ask each municipality how many citizens they have, who are 225 hours old and who are living up to it, and how many who, after the reform was implemented, have entered the labour market or entered education. This analysis does not show that, and I do not think an independent analysis would show that either. You can, of course, write in everything they have to investigate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110605	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412110610	Thank you. And I would like to thank the authors of this proposal for carrying out an independent and external analysis of whether the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule work. It is not because the Left sees any reason to carry out another impact assessment, because since the motion for a resolution was tabled, an impact assessment by the Ministry of Employment has established once and for all that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule work. Nevertheless, it gives rise to a debate on the right and fairness of what the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are very much about. And who knows, perhaps it is today that we can get a clear answer from the Social Democratic Party in the debate as to whether they want to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits, when they have been going against it all morning, that is to say, an answer that is not wrapped in benefit commissions or other extracurricular talk. But let me make it clear again with seven-inch nails that the government's Job Reform Phase I works. The ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have an effect; more have entered work, more have entered training. I think there is every reason to be glad that I do not think that the proven effect is a source of joy in all the parties in the Folketing, because the facts tend to blow off those parties which, without any lower limit, are intimidating against the ceiling of cash aid. We have seen that every time one apocalypse has been shot to the corner, the left wing grabs the air unpeeledly for a new postulate. First it was said that the ceiling on cash benefits would put thousands of families from home and home. That prophecy didn't last. The fact is that the ceiling on cash benefits has not led to any more housing relocations. Then it was said that the effect of the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule could not be demonstrated. It's not gonna last, either. The fact is that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have an effect. Now it is said that the ceiling on cash benefits leads to poverty. I simply don't buy that claim because with the cash benefits ceiling, a single parent with two children has DKK 18.100. after tax a month, and a couple on cash benefits with one child have 22,900 DKK. after taxes a month. I don't think it's being poor. I absolutely believe that these amounts are perfectly reasonable and should be enough to live on. And this is very much about fairness. It is about the fact that there must be a noticeable difference between receiving cash benefits and being in work. We have secured this with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and I think that is quite appropriate. For the sake of good order, let me stress that this is not about hitting anyone, as the left would like to put it. Because in the Left, we are just as concerned about ensuring a better future for children who grow up in families with cash benefits, and the Left has no patent on that concern. We know that cash benefits are largely passed on, and that is worrying. Therefore, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are also about breaking the negative social heritage. I welcome the effects we have seen of Job Reform Phase I. I am pleased that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule on the one hand ensure a reasonable dependency base and, on the other hand, motivate the search for a job. I am glad that there is now a noticeable gain when you switch cash benefits out with a paycheck, and I am glad that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have a documented effect; more have come into work, more have come into training. I think this is a success, because it is a success every time a person changes the cash benefits with a job or an education. And it's a success every time a child experiences that now Mom and Dad go to work. The effect of job reform has been documented and therefore the Left cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111049	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111052	When the rapporteur says that it has been documented, the rapporteur also admits that it has been documented that 190 people have entered training or jobs because of the ceiling on cash benefits. That's the way it has to be. The Prime Minister said at a press conference on 9 January that the ceiling on cash benefits has meant that there are 16,700 fewer Danes on cash benefits. Who, then, is not right? Is it the Minister of Employment who has done the analysis, or is it the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111128	The ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have an effect, and I understand that the Social Democratic Party is in a dilemma now, because one day it will be extended and taken up by a benefit commission, and the next day it will be against the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. Now we have seen that the number of people in the cash assistance system has fallen sharply. We welcome that. This is due both to the economic situation, but also to the fact that we have the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. So I welcome that, and I think I share that pleasure with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111216	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111217	Then I might as well not ask, because I didn't get an answer. So can I ask a yes-no question, and it says: is the Prime Minister right in saying that the ceiling on cash benefits means that 16,700 fewer Danes are on cash benefits? Yes or no can be answered. I don't need to know everything else because I know that. Is the PM right in that yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111242	The Prime Minister is right that there are fewer people in the cash benefits system, and this is also due to the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. We welcome this in the Left. We welcome the fact that we have now reinstated the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. We have created reasonableness in that it always pays to work and we ensure that there is motivation, so that when you take a job, you have more than the only DKK 700 you had before the introduction of the ceiling for cash benefits. Now you have reached 4,000 kroner. more for yourself in the month, if you take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111327	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111329	Now we have concluded once and for all that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule work, it is actually a success, says the rapporteur. I would like to hear: does the rapporteur of the Left disagree with the Minister for Employment when he acknowledges that there is no question of 600 working? It's wrong, and it's a misinterpretation. Nor is it a question of 190 getting to work, but perhaps 100. It's a misinterpretation. And when the Minister admits that it is not clear whether the effects come from the cyclical improvements or from the reform, then the rapporteur must disagree with the Minister, since he can say so clearly that it has been established that it is a success and that the reforms are working.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111426	I certainly do not disagree with the Minister for Employment. We are currently seeing thousands of people leaving the cash assistance system. We welcome this, both the Minister for Employment and myself. This is due both to the economic situation and also to the ceiling on cash benefits and to the 225-hour rule. That effect analysis has now proved that. So we sort of walk around and are really happy that there are now even more children who experience their mother and father going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111501	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111502	Well, that's the problem, and that's why we're discussing it today. That impact analysis does not show that the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule have had that effect. That is what the hops are all about, and that is why we need to have an independent investigation. When the Minister in the first place exaggerates the conclusions of his own impact analysis, we have to have facts on the table or, as the Radical rapporteur said, we have to work evidence-based, or at least a little bit more evidence-based, than we are doing at the moment. We have to. Surely we can see that it is wandering around in quicksand if we are only to listen to the rapporteur of the Left. Now the Minister has begun to come a little more close to the realistic when he recognizes that the over-interpretations were wrong. It is no success; there is nothing to suggest that this is a success.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111554	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111555	I certainly believe that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are a success. We have now ensured that there is a noticeable difference between being on public support and taking on a job, including a relatively low-paid job. It is a success, then, that there is a financial gain by going from public support to taking on work. I welcome that. The impact analysis also shows that more people have entered education and work respectively. I welcome that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111638	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111642	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says that both the business cycle and the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule have helped to bring people into work and into training. And we must understand that the economic situation has brought thousands and thousands of people into work and education, especially work, of course. And the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have brought 190, possibly a little more, into education and work. Well, it's almost absurd to equate the two concepts and the two effects. But my question is: is there not a lower limit to the rapporteur's satisfaction, given how many people have paid such a price for this reform? What if it had only brought 10 people to work? Is it simply that there is at least one more than there would otherwise have been that applies to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111737	Well, it's about us in the Left sticking to and having an ambition that working should pay off. And with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, we have now created a situation where there is a noticeable difference between being in the cash benefits system and then going out and taking on a job, including a job that is relatively low paid. There is now a noticeable gain. It's created with the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. I welcome that. Then I also welcome the fact that the impact assessment shows that there are actually more people who have now also come into work and in education and I welcome that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111824	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111825	Does the rapporteur also welcome the fact that so many people who have been hit by the ceiling on cash benefits and who have lost housing because of the ceiling on cash benefits are people who are unable to take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111837	When you are a single parent with two children, you have DKK 18,100. After tax per month and covered by the ceiling on cash benefits, I think it is a reasonable amount that can be supported. And we have to hold on to that, because I think we are, in fact, Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111924	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412111936	The economy is going well in Denmark. What it is about is using this situation to politically move forward and help some of the many who have no work and have no opportunity to get out of the hell of cash aid. But now it's safe and certain. I do not think we need to discuss this for long, although I could hear that the rapporteur of the Left was a little in doubt. The cash benefits reform and the 225-hour rule make thousands of children's families poor and bring no more to work. The Minister's new impact analysis tells us that 190 more have been put into work, but the analysis cannot prove that this is due to the reform. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that it is an insult to the many thousands of people, and not least the tens of thousands of children who are affected, to claim that it is positive indeed, some even call it a success. The Minister's impact analysis now confirms what we in the Enhedslist have always said, namely that the only thing that comes out of poverty benefits is increased poverty and, in particular, increased child poverty. It is a pure confession case, although it has been difficult to squeeze that recognition out of the Minister. The average cash benefits course is shortened from 1 year and 6 days to 1 year and 2 days. This is equivalent to 190 full-time people entering work and training. A later reply from the Minister has revealed that only half of the 190 people have entered work. So the minister makes just over 100 people a general success, while tens of thousands of children have been affected by the rules. And then it is even pure fantasy and talgymnastics for calculating boys; there is no proof that it is due to the hard-handed rules. I think it is an insult to the many thousands of people, not least the children, who are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. You just can't be that familiar, sir. Minister. It's too brutal. Whether it is a social democrat or a liberal who sits on the ministerial chair, it is too brutal. The naked truth is that there are more children than adults who are affected by these rules that have been introduced, on the pretext that it is worthwhile to work and that more people are going to work. This is, and remains, a miserable excuse for impoverishing the unemployed and sick people, so that tax relief can be paid and also to push the minimum wage. The Enhedslisten recently had the Minister in consultation to make him recognise that he cannot prove his claim that poverty benefits lead to more people entering work. He would not do so, although he has acknowledged in writing that there is no evidence of his claim. But wait to see, he said. Soon the power analysis will be here. And it did. And now we can see once again that the emperor has no clothes on. Important questions arise in the wake of the so-called analysis. The Minister's figures only cover 32%. of the recipients of cash benefits and therefore cannot be a description of all the recipients of cash benefits. The minister commits talgymnastics when in his press release he multiplys from 190 to 600. Fortunately he has acknowledged this this morning. Despite the fact that the impact assessment says: "Therefore, the results of the analysis cannot necessarily be interpreted as a total effect for all cash benefits recipients. In addition, it is the general growth in employment that gets more cash benefits in jobs. This is clear from other answers given by the Minister. So why continue to claim that this is due to poverty reforms? We support the motion for a resolution on an independent analysis of the effects of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. This can help the Minister to stop claiming that these poverty benefits have a beneficial effect on employment. Perhaps an analysis can even shed light on the increased poverty for children and adults that the reform has brought about.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112352	Thank you. Then there is a comment. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112354	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Enhedslisten and the Left and the government cannot necessarily find each other on this point. We want to stand firm on the ceiling of cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, because we believe that working should be worthwhile and we believe that the level of benefits currently available is quite reasonable. But I just have to ask Enhedslisten: will the Enhedslisten be able to support a social democratic government if it falls to that side after an election, when the Social Democratic response at the moment is that the cash aid ceiling should be examined by a benefit commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112443	After all, we are not in government negotiations at the moment, and I do not know whether we will ever do so. We'll see about that. I can just say that we are not going to support the continuation of the cash aid reform and the 225-hour rule. We will not vote in favour of this. If that is an answer that is good enough for the rapporteur, that is what I can give today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112505	Sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112506	This can be interpreted in both a little positive and a little negative. But it doesn't work that way. Christian Juhl and yours truly. Perhaps there is a basis for government writing, and one could be led to believe that the Social Democrats might be discussing things with a parliamentary basis. I should just like to ask you briefly: can the Enhedslisten support a possible social democratic government where there is nothing in the government's constitution about abolishing the ceiling on cash benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112548	I must disappoint the rapporteur of the Left that we have hardly ever been invited to participate in the formulation of a government basis. However, we have never done so yet. It's gonna come someday. But I would say that we will use the situation to have optimal influence. But I think that the pain limit goes there, that if there is an imminent risk that the Left will come back and we can prevent it, then we will probably say: let us have another government. And then, from the corner of the house to the corner of the house, we will fight to get our politics through. Social democracy does not get 50 per cent. of the votes next time, so they must at least listen in certain situations if they do not want to just negotiate with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112636	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112637	It was just to follow up on it, as sir. Hans Andersen said. For Mr. Christian Juhl did not answer that directly. We are well aware that it is unlikely that the Enhedslisten will be invited to write the government basis. But one still wants to sit away as a parliamentary basis, and then the question is: will one sit as a parliamentary basis for a government that does not want to remove the ceiling on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112705-2	There is a difference between supporting party and parliamentary basis. I don't know if we should spend time explaining that to each other. We know all about that. This means that we will not support the continuation of these rules. We will vote against this if the Socialists make that proposal and, for that matter, if they propose to weaken these rules. We will not support that. Then they'll have to find a majority somewhere else. It is not likely that we will surrender government power to the bourgeois on one political issue. There we will take an overall assessment, and in many situations we will probably choose to have a Prime Minister who is a Social Democrat rather than a Prime Minister who is from the Left or the Danish People's Party. I guess so. That is why I want to say that you do not make us vote in favour of this kind of deterioration here under any circumstances. We are not voting in favour of such extremely brutal things against the most vulnerable in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112801	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112807	In the Liberal Alliance we have no desire to spend money on an external evaluation of job reform phase I. After all, for those who are interested in calculating the effects of reform, the Committee on Finance has examined how participation effects are calculated and also what uncertainties are associated with such calculations. These uncertainties are, of course, significant and different effects can also be found in different studies. Uncertainty means that we in Denmark count far more conservatively on participation effects than, for example, the Swedes do. In February, the Ministry of Employment carried out an evaluation of the impact, looking at the departure from cash benefits. There it was found that on average the cash benefits courses were 3.4 days shorter due to the reform. It's not a very big effect. However, if you have to say something about the overall impact of the reform, you should of course also look at the approach to cash benefits. At the end of the day, small methodical choices will probably have an important impact on the effect of reform. You can ask a number of different parties to try to establish a reform effect, and you will probably get a number of different answers. I find it very difficult to see what value would come from spending money on such an evaluation, and the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112944	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412112948	Thank you. I really hope that today's debate will have a very concrete positive effect, namely that changing employment ministers will stop taking credit for more people coming to work by claiming that reforms such as the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule work. I think it is a bad thing to pretend that one's employment policy has the credit for the results created by economic conditions and positive economic development. Look at 2008, where we were down to 1.9% unemployment. No one ever expected that. But was it a product of a tight employment policy with coercion, control and incentives? No, it was a product of the greatest economic upswing we've had in ages. Now we have also confirmed that the job effect of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule is really completely marginal. There have been 190 people in jobs and training because of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule out of the many, many thousands of people that the Minister tells us have left the cash benefits system. I admit that it may be a little more than 190 people. I shall not rule that out. But we are not even close to the goal of 700 in employment that was the objective of this reform. So the prize has not been paid. On the other hand, thousands of cash benefits recipients can pay the cost of the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. Thousands of Danes have been reduced to housing benefits, which the SF's rapporteur also put into figures, with the result that more than 10,000 children have fallen below the poverty limit that the government has abolished. We hear about families who need money for medicine. We hear about social poverty of the nature that means that children cannot go to sport or come to birthday because there is no money for birthday gifts. Another consequence of the reform is that two thirds of the people affected by these cuts in their cash benefits through housing benefits are those who are called ready for activity, i.e. they cannot even take a job. That is to say, you give people an incentive they cannot live up to; you give them a carrot they cannot eat. They say: We put you in cash because it makes you take a job that you cannot take because of social challenges, physical or mental illnesses. It is then to place people in a completely meaningless paradox in their lives. All in all, I believe that we have established through this impact study that the effect of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule is completely marginal. And I find that interesting. I think it is nice that we have had that impact analysis and I would very much like more precise figures. I would very, very much like a much more precise and far-reaching independent impact assessment. And there are two reasons for this. Firstly, the Danes are reminded of how incredibly high a price Danish poor and vulnerable families pay for an extremely small increase in education and jobs. I think that when that calculation really begins to dawn on people, there will be much greater opposition to the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. Secondly, I would hope that we will have another impact assessment to ensure what I started by saying, namely that we will hopefully stop seeing ministers take credit for good results that are not due to their policies, but are actually due to recession and positive economic development.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412113345	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left, is the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412113354	Thank you. There is a difference between informed attitudes and uninformed attitudes. That is also one of the issues that the debate is about. Both kinds of attitudes are quite legitimate, and attitudes always contain feelings, because we politicians are all in politics because we feel strongly about what we are fighting for. It is often the case for all of us that we then look for knowledge that can support the attitudes we already have It is very human; that is how most of us actually work. That is why it is so important that we, as politicians and as people, are constantly challenged by reality and by knowledge. We need knowledge about the consequences of our legislation. We need to follow the legislation much more closely. I think the debate with the Minister has also expressed this. We need to become wiser all the time, and we all need, yes, we in the Radical Left too, to dare to admit that we are becoming wiser, because that is what we do all the time when we get new knowledge. And good for it. But that is why we also need knowledge from many different edges. There are various think tanks that have raised this issue, and that is fine, but they are all politically founded. The Ministry's calculations are also very good. I've left them for myself. You have to, and there is no doubt that they are doing as well as they can. They don't always hit right... nor do others do... because economists are also people. That's one of them. That is why we have an Economic Council in Denmark, an institution of wise men, so that economic policy is not only tested in the Ministry of Finance, but we have something to hold it up against. That is common sense, and we must take advantage of it, as the Minister said. I agree with that. In the Radical Left, therefore, we disagree with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and we are endeavouring to ensure that these are informed positions, because there are analyses which, among other things, are. shows that from 2015 to 2016, alone, the number of one-year poor children, children who are poor for one year at a time, increased by 10,500 in one year, from 37,000 to 48,000 children in poverty. And children with just 1 year of poverty choose a shorter education... there's not necessarily anything wrong with that... and they have a worse employment relationship, and they more often end up in low-wage industries. And a whole series of them end up outside the labour market. That's what the consequences are. We know from a social point of view about growing up in poverty, that the likelihood of getting married, of having a family, of having a roommate and of having had children when you round the age of 30 is significantly reduced if you have grown up in poverty. There are analyses, among others. from the Employment Council of the Workers' Movement, which shows that the introduction of precisely the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit have together contributed to this development. And that, of course, helps to inform my position and that of the Radical Left. This really, really means a lot to us, because we believe that it is unreasonable for those children and because we believe that every society must be measured by how we treat the most vulnerable and then, in particular, the most vulnerable children, because they have no chance of changing their living conditions themselves, and finally because we believe that it actually has major consequences for us as a society, also financial negative consequences. But we also need to know this all the time about new knowledge, not only from the Labour Movement's Business Council, but from many bodies. That is what we want with this resolution: knowledge to inform our positions. We therefore need this in politics, perhaps even more than ever before, not only in the world and in Europe, but also in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412113925	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412113934	Equal societies are doing better in all areas than unequal societies. Poverty hits hard. Just one year in a child's life, which is dragged into poverty, means less chances for later in life to be able to get a youth education. What is interesting here is not, as we often hear from the bourgeois side, to compare poverty with other countries that have quite different conditions. What goes through every time you measure the importance of equality and inequality in a society is relative poverty, relative inequality. Today there are approx. 48,300 children living below the poverty line. There are 35,000 children who experience what can be called one-year poverty, i.e. as in one year of their childhood experience poverty, and it strikes hard. Children of poor parents have approx. 60% greater risk of becoming early retirement already at the age of 30. Is it worthwhile to work? That question is often asked and also today. The Rockwool Foundation's research unit shows that cash aid has been eroded over the last 25 years, and now that development is further accelerated. The largest field is for single non-parents, where in 1988 it could be seen that cash benefits amounted to 38%. of the average wage and now it has fallen to 31%. And for single parents, cash benefits have fallen from 72%. of the average wage to reach 63 per cent. For couples, cash benefits in 1988 amounted to 57 per cent and have now fallen to 51 per cent. of an average wage. What does it mean to be poor in Denmark? This means, among other things, that one out of every five poor people does not take public transport; that almost one out of every six does not eat three meals a day; that one out of every seven does not buy prescribed medicines; and that one out of every eight has difficulty in bearing disability costs. Poor children have far more deprivation than other children. One in three poor children has spare time; one in four poor children have deprivations in clothing and footwear; and almost one in four poor children have deprivations in housing and housing. When we discuss whether economic incentives work, I would say that they do. They do that in some situations. If you are able to move away from economic pressure, it is a little like meeting two thugs on the street and you actually have the opportunity to bypass them, but then you will probably choose to do so. But the problem with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule is that it affects everyone. In the long term, of course, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule affect something else: wage formation. This will put pressure on minimum wages, and we will be able to stand here again in a while and discuss that now we need to create more distance between transfer income and pay. And then wages can fall, and then transfer income can fall afterwards; they can contribute to each other's death spiral towards the bottom. On the other hand, they cannot wipe their laughing off in the employers' associations. Poverty is a tattoo that children find difficult to remove later in life. The most important thing in life is to actually choose the right parents. We really need to take a good look at this, because it will have major consequences. But society must not put up with children being left in poverty. Perhaps in very best cases with the sun in the back and the wind in the back, the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule can take credit for 600 people getting into work or training. During the same period, 10,500 children have drowned below the poverty line. 62,000 children are affected every day by the low - ceilinged cash aid scolder. In relation to getting people into employment, and in relation to how many people you hit, it is similar to 17 children ending up in poverty to get 1 person into work. It's cynical, it's antisocial, it's unfair. But, of course, economic pressure can move people. If you can move away from whip, you do. But if you push people who can't move, they just fall over. Poverty leads only one way, that it is to apathy and upset. Inequality tears communities apart. SF believes in return that everyone should have fair odds in life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114509	Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114511	Thank you. That is a clear speech from the rapporteur. The rapporteur wants to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. I can safely remind you that if you are a single provider in the social security system and you have two children, you have 18,100 DKK. after tax a month, and I think that is a reasonable substitute. But what I would like to ask is whether the SF will support a possible social democratic government if the Socialist-led government does not want to abolish the ceiling on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114556	The question of this low-ceilinged cash backup is going to have a major impact on SF's position in relation to a future social democratic government. It will have an impact on how we place ourselves, either as a loyal support party or as an opposition party. What I can say is that if the Social Democratic Party does not abolish the ceiling on cash aid, we can see from the SF that they are going to look both litter-, land- and dejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114633	Here you go, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114635	Thank you. That was a clearer answer than the one that Enhedslisten's rapporteur was able to deal with earlier. What are the facts right now is that we have to understand that the Social Democrats do not want to abolish the ceiling on cash aid. They want to ask a commission to look at what is up and down in it. We may be slightly confused about this, because the whole morning has gone by criticizing it by the Social Democrats. But I acknowledge that there is a clear speech from the Socialist People's Party. I understand that they cannot support a social democratic government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114721	I said that it will have an impact on the position we have in relation to a social democratic government. And I would like to say that I do not think we should be as discouraged as Mr. Hans Andersen is, in relation to the wishes of the Social Democratic Party, to have a commission made that looks at this. In fact, it makes good sense, I think, because the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are elements of a larger system of benefits. In fact, I think that what the Social Democratic Party is proposing is to set up such a service commission which looks at the areas where things are playing together and where it might well be possible to arrive at arrangements that were much better, is a very good idea. For SF, it will be an expectation that you will start by abolishing the cash benefits ceiling and then reduce the benefits commission. But the very setting up of a Services Commission does not seem to me to be Mr. Hans Andersen's gotta make fun of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114808	Thank you. And there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412114818	Of course, we cannot support the resolution either. We are very proud of the ceiling on cash benefits that has been introduced. We believe that an analysis has been made of the effects of what we have faith in. We also agree that the effects, in relation to how many people get in jobs and away from cash benefits, are not a very large number of people that make a small contribution to employment in Denmark, but we have always used a different argument from the conservative side. There's three purposes to this cash-aid ceiling. One is, of course, that a little more people are going to work. Then there is a small saving such financially for the Treasury. But most importantly, it is a question for us of fairness. We think it should be so that it is morally right that there is a difference between how much you get, if you are on cash benefits, and if you are in a low-paid job. And that's why we've introduced this ceiling on cash benefits, where the main principle is that if you're on cash benefits, you get in total benefits when you put in cash benefits, housing benefits, child benefits and other benefits, approx. 80% of what you get if you are in a low-paid contract-covered job. We think it is right that there should be the difference between how much cash benefit recipients have and how much people who have low-paid jobs in Denmark have. It is not fair that people should work hard, take a job where they work 7-8 hours a day, and then they get nothing out of it financially. We think that is a moral problem. It is also an economic problem, but it is primarily a moral problem. That is why we think it is right that there is the difference between what the recipients of cash benefits get and what people in low-paid jobs get. And that's why we've introduced the cash benefits ceiling... that's the main reason for having introduced the cash benefits ceiling. That is why we stand by it, regardless of the size of the employment effect, which you can discuss if 200 or 600 or more are discussing, but it is not decisive whether we support the ceiling on cash benefits or not. What I am most puzzled about in this debate is that one social democrat after another can be seen thundering against this ceiling of cash aid, attacking the government and the Danish People's Party so hard for having introduced the ceiling of cash aid, and then the Social Democrats will not remove it. That's where I think you have to choose your position. You can't think it's so horrible, and then you don't want to change it. It doesn't make any sense. It is a free round from the Social Democratic Party, and I understand that the support parties that are more honest and more consistent in their policy may find it difficult to support the social democracy in that policy in the future. We support the ceiling on cash benefits. In fact, I think it is one of the best things we have done in this period; it is one of the most bourgeois we have done and a necessary clean-up in a cash aid system where we have had the problem that it has simply not been worth taking a job in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115136	I can see that there is work going on in the Parliamentary Chamber to find out how we are going to deal with the proposal that follows. I very much appreciate the fact that we are closing at such a sharp hour. 12.00, but that depends a little on the questions. It's not to cut someone off, it's just because that's the reality. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115157	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke of moral problems, but he also said: we are very proud of the reform. I cannot get that in my head, so I have to ask the Conservative rapporteur: is the rapporteur proud that 11 000 children now have to live under what we used to have as the poverty line 11 000 children who have reduced their chances of being equal citizens in our society? We know from all investigations that this is the case. It's a price you have to take when you pass a law like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115231	It is clear that the ceiling on cash benefits means that there are some who have less money than they would otherwise have had. We are not talking about excessive cuts. However, we believe that it is true that there is the difference between what a cash benefit recipient has and what people in low-paid jobs have. The way in which poverty was identified in the definition of the Enhedslisten is such that if you belong to the poorest part of society, regardless of what the level is, you are counted as poor, and that will inevitably mean that cash aid recipients will belong to the poorest, when there is now the difference between receiving cash and being in a low-paid job, and therefore you get the statistics that are here. But we still believe that the level of cash benefits is certainly something we can be familiar with. I mean, when a single parent with two children gets more than 17,000 kroner. paid in total monthly benefits, we are not at a level where we cannot be aware of the level of cash benefits, and we are also at a level which is higher than in most of our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115332	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115334	So why don't we stop talking about morality when it's the morals of the Conservatives that it's all right for us to reduce 11,000 children's opportunities to be equal citizens in our society and then you just talk about whether working is worthwhile? Everyone knows that working pays off. We don't have to discuss that anymore. We don't have to do any more reforms. The business cycle is the most important factor in this question. The last question is: when there is so much doubt today about the Minister's own impact analysis, is it not reasonable that we should get some facts on the table, namely by means of an independent analysis? And what are the governing parties afraid of, since they do not want to do the work that everyone could benefit from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115419	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115421	I don't think we should stop talking about morality. I think that morality is extremely important in the way we organize our society, and I do not think it is morally justifiable to set up a welfare system in such a way that people do not get anything out of taking a low-paid job. I think it is a lack of respect for those people who take low-paid work in Denmark to say that they should not get anything out of it, and I do not agree that we should not discuss whether it is worthwhile to work. It should have been proved and beyond doubt. The difference is too small in Denmark, and it was especially so before we set the ceiling for cash benefits, especially when one also takes into account that there will often be costs by taking a job in relation to transport and other things that are necessary to take care of a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115501	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115502	Now that we can see that the tiny amount of jobs or education that has been provided in this way has such incredible consequences for families that have become poor, children who have fallen below the poverty line, the consequences we have been discussing in this Parliament for an incredible long time and we are talking about morality today, why is it that the poorest, the most vulnerable families, the families who pay a huge price for this very marginal increase in employment go under the radar of the Conservatives' morals?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115540	I do not agree with the premise on that question, that is, that there should have been enormous consequences and a huge price for some families. I still believe that the level of cash assistance we have in Denmark is extremely reasonable and supports that you can have a good life in Denmark at that level.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115600	Sir. Torsten Gejl. Please press when you want the second question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115604	If you look at the 10,000 families, 10,000 children who have fallen below the poverty limit that the government then abolished, you will see people who lack medicine, people who find it difficult to send their children to sports activities, and children know that they are poor, children know that their parents are poor, they feel guilty about it, they feel shame about it, all the people who, at least in my world, are many, and why do they go under the moral radar of the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115641	Listen to this: The way in which poverty in Denmark, to which the alternative refers, is to say that those who belong to the poorest part of society and have the lowest incomes in society are counted as poor. And then it's just clear that no matter what the level is, there will always be some in that category. And we take the view that when you receive cash benefits, you must be among those who have the lowest incomes, because we think that people who are in work should have more money than people who are on cash benefits, and therefore it is inevitable that someone who falls below the poverty line will be counted. But we do not think they are poor, we think that the level we give them is reasonable and that you can have a proper life with the services we provide.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115724	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no more comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Once this proposal has been finalised, I will call you at lunchtime, because I know there are a lot of parliamentary politicians who would like to attend some meetings here around 8 a.m. Twelve-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412115742	Thank you for that, President. Does the cash benefits ceiling work or does it not work? Does it get more people to work or doesn't? Well, I can only say well. During the procedure we saw that I was standing here on the same platform, and from that part over here we were told that, uh, it works. I was actually blamed quite a lot for not being able to see the huge employment effect that was in it. I should then add a lot of words to that. Nevertheless, in the draft law at that time only 700 people came into employment, not in employment or in training, but 700, who came into employment, were then expected to do so. Since then, the crisis has passed and there has been a boom and there have been more jobs and fewer cash aid recipients. It's really happy for all of us, and I don't think we can find anyone in here who doesn't think so. I would say, of course, that the fewer cash aid recipients are mostly due to the better times. But the government hasn't been in any doubt. One almost got the feeling that the whole reason why fewer people came on cash benefits was, in fact, the ceiling on cash benefits, although the former minister, Jørn Neergaard Larsen, at the press conference when the proposal was launched, very frankly said that when you look in isolation at the proposal for a ceiling on cash benefits, it is not impressive numbers. In other words, the Minister was already aware of this at the time. Subsequently, no less than a farce has occurred. The Minister has claimed on several occasions both in the press and on Facebook that it is for the cash benefits ceiling that there are no more on cash benefits. We have also seen numbers that could be destroyed each time because they were made for the occasion. Finally, after consultation, the Minister is right to say that there has been a great deal of consultation: whether the ceiling on cash benefits works can only be guessed. All of a sudden we went from the facts it was a little fun to the Minister's gut feeling as a truth witness. Now all of a sudden, we were about to deal with the Minister's gut feeling and not the facts. And in order for it to become even more wild, the Prime Minister stood up at a press conference on something quite different and said that the ceiling on cash benefits has meant that there are 16,700 fewer Danes on cash benefits. That in itself is also a bit of a wild claim. Later, after all, the minister had to give in. He saw that this was coming, and of course the minister did an impact analysis. I think most people would have. In the course of the proceedings and so far through the press and consultation, we have only called for answers to statements, but we have not received them. But now we've got an answer or have we? It is certainly limited, and I will allow myself to call it a rather make-up analysis to give a picture of an effect. Let's take a look at that impact analysis. The impact analysis is, of course, made by the minister's people, because he is the minister who sits in the ministry. I would claim at least as I see it is an attempt to make it look as good as possible in relation to the statements made by the Minister and Prime Minister. The pure employment effect had to be dropped. Remember that the agreement at that time said that it would get 700 in employment. Now, all of a sudden, education has been included. Now it is no longer 700 who have entered employment, but it is 600 who have entered employment or it is also clear from the analysis on page 11, and I would like to read from the analysis made by the Minister of Employment: that the result of the analysis cannot necessarily be interpreted as an overall effect on all cash benefits recipients and that the result of the analysis cannot be directly transferred to other groups. This means that it has been found that from the group that has been created there are 190 people who have got started on the labour market or in education because of this ceiling on cash benefits. But even if you say in the analysis that you can't transfer it to other groups, you do it anyway, and vupti, you hit 600. Nevertheless, the Minister here holds on to the platform that this has a huge effect. Well, I have to say that we need to have a proper investigation of this so that once and for all we can see the effect of these services and of the ceiling. That is why we have proposed an independent external investigation. And I would like to thank Enhedslisten, thank you to the Radicals, and thank you to the Alternative and thank you to the SF for helping to raise this debate and say that when you do something like this, it has to be properly analysed. But don't just do it over night... it needs to be properly analysed. We simply have to. I'm not disappointed in the government, I'm not disappointed in sir. Hans Andersen and the others' answers, because that's what I expected. Now they can no longer explain that there will be more people in employment; now it seems that they just want to hold on to the low benefits. I don't really see any other explanations fair enough. But I am a little disappointed with the Danish People's Party, which has joined it and apparently has not regretted it. When Mr. Bent Bøgsted stood up here, it sounded like it was fine with benefits, but that one had to make sure to focus on the stakes. The most important thing is that people are being made an effort so that we get them away from cash benefits. I am very much in agreement with that. It's super important to get people away from it. I think we all want that and that's why we've also been involved in making a cash aid reform and helping to do something so that we could get these people away from it. But it sounds a little hollow when the very same party, the Danish People's Party, I am not sure that it is the rapporteur who has been sitting and doing the sort of thing, most recently in the context of the growth agreement with the government, to save 1 billion. kr. on upgrading and mentoring schemes for these very people. This means that they are told that money is now being taken away from them, because then they will get started; then you will also take some effort. I think we should demand that we get to the bottom of this. It is simply necessary and it is very proper. I think it is right for us politicians who have a responsibility to say that when we do things like this, we have to look into it properly. That is why I think it is very good that we have had the debate. I am sorry that we do not have a majority in favour of the proposal. We shall then have to look at the debate, but I wonder if the debate will continue a little later when I have finished. If there are not a few questions for me, of course I will be deeply disappointed. I would also like to thank you for the debate so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120429	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120430	When you do not have a good policy, you have to try to see if you can put lice in the skin of the other side. I think the Left is doing this today by calling into question a future social democratic government. After all, I have the greatest hopes that you will pursue a progressive red and green policy so that we can really see that there is a difference between right and left. Could the rapporteur not take this opportunity to explain to the Left that you are going to pursue a progressive red and green policy in this area and then abolish those poverty benefits that we do not need?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120505	But what is a red and what is a green policy, and what is it about this? The bourgeois find it interesting to provide low benefits, and there are others who find it interesting to provide high benefits. We find it interesting, when we look at such a system of benefits, to have the balance between getting people into employment and training while maintaining a safety net so that people are actually well off while they are on cash aid, while at the same time we, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted also mentioned, ensuring that they get a proper and good employment effort, that the municipalities deliver an employment effort so that these people get to work. So a proper safety net, an opportunity for people to get into employment and education and for us to ensure some effort, I think at least red politics, and at least I think it is social democratic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120557	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120557-2	I asked, in a way, whether we should not go and deal with each other like this in public, that we should drop those poverty benefits that destroy the conditions of children. It's good to have an investigation done. It might support the fact that we were making an offensive campaign against the bourgeois who still think it morally decent to destroy conditions for poor children in Denmark. I think the Social Democratic Party owes us that, and if they do not want to do so, then we must still act as a left-wing opposition, as we have done under previous socialist governments. It would only be much easier to win an election campaign and get real politics into the enterprise if we also got clear lines from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120643	I don't think it's that hard to understand what I'm saying. I know that several bourgeois rapporteurs who have been up here have said that social democracy will not change anything. Of course we will. We are not setting up a Services Commission and then not changing anything at all. We believe that what we have here is not good enough. We're gonna have to change that. We can see that these families of children with single parents are having a hard time. We have to do something about that. We can also see that some sick and disabled people are having a difficult time. We have to do something about that. That is precisely why we are proposing a Services Commission on which we hope we will have a majority and also a broad agreement. So that must be the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120717	Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120718	Thank you. I am simply very confused, because is there any resolution in this Chamber today? Since it was tabled on 31 January, there has been a proposal from the Social Democratic Party to set up a Services Commission, so I do not know whether we have actually wasted each other's time discussing it with an independent impact assessment. For both the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party and Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has said that it is a service commission that will be set up. So is it a performance committee that has to work, or is it an independent impact assessment that needs to be carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120802	Now I've known mr. Hans Andersen for many years, and I don't think Mr. Hans Andersen is confused. For Mr. Hans Andersen knows this game well: when we make such a proposal here, we are also examining whether there is a majority for it, and I knew at that time that there was no majority for it. Then we are putting it forward precisely in order to pressure the government to come up with an analysis. In fact, I believe that the pressure has helped to ensure that the Minister for Employment had to carry out an impact assessment. Then you can question how good it is with that impact analysis. But the other one, I'm not a second in doubt. Have we wasted each other's time? I certainly don't think we have, because we've had a really good talk about this. We have had a good talk and found out that the ceiling on cash aid that was created at the time got 190 people in employment and education. Well, that must be nice for Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen, that people can see that everything you've done actually works that it's got 190 people going. Sir, I'm afraid so. Hans Andersen was happy to have come forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120855	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120856	Thank you. Now I have the expectation that when the Social Democrats work on proposals, they are thoroughly worked out and well thought out. After all, the Social Democratic Party has been aware that the impact analysis carried out over in the Ministry of Employment has been running for a long time. So that is not the reason why a Social Democratic Commission is now being considered here from the right. But I just have to understand that when you propose a benefit commission, it is because you do not want to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. Can we confirm that today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412120934	You know, you ask if a Services Commission has been thought through. What is meant by a service commission is precisely to get some figures on what the benefits should look like, and I hope that we will then get a broad majority in favour of this. With regard to considering it before carrying out an analysis, I do not think that the Minister for Employment would have done the impact analysis if he had thought it through. If he had been aware of the results, I think he had not, because one can clearly see that the impact analysis has not been thought through in any way. So I think it's totally okay. on our part to say that now we will no longer tolerate the fact that when the government changes, the benefits change too. Now, once and for all, we're gonna do something that's right. We think these people deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412121014	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412121016	Thank you. Well, now Mr. Chandler's blaming me. Leif Lahn Jensen Dansk Folkeparti for a great deal, because we are apparently the cause of all ills now and here. But Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen can do the same analysis of indicative qualification for less support and then find out how many jobs have been created. It may not be a lot of people who have gotten into a job, but it may be more other bets that get people into jobs. But let it go, because we don't have to discuss that. I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen about something. It is a little dangerous to set up a service commission, because imagine if they came to the conclusion that the services that are appropriate are the ones we have today. Will Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen then say that we can't use it, so we're just pouring it down the board, or will the Social Democracy say: Okay, the Service Commission has found that the cash benefits we have now and here are appropriate, and so it shouldn't be changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412121113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412121114	I don't blame the Danish People's Party for anything at all, but I just said I was disappointed, and these are two different things. You can then agree with me on that or not. It is clear that when you make a service commission which has to propose where the services should be, precisely in order to have a good system in the future, you will be ready to change it. That is also why it is not true that we believe that what is there now is very good and that we will just continue to do so. That is not true, because then we would not have proposed a service commission. It is actually because we are going to ask some people to work on it so that we can get a very good proposal on how we do it, and when it has arrived, we will of course sit down with the parties who will, to see if we can get a broad majority for this. The Social Democratic Party has always done so, but it has not done so in this case with the ceiling on cash benefits, but we have always done so when it comes to the very big things about the cash benefits reform too. That is what we are trying to do, because it would be hollow in the head to make a service commission and then not want anything at all, and therefore all the criticism that has been made from the bourgeois side that we are just going to continue, nor does it hold water.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412121221	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412121221-2	After all, there is a risk that the Services Commission will come to the conclusion that there is no reason to raise the rates. The risk is, of course, that, unless the Social Democratic Party states that their task is to provide an analysis showing that the rates must be raised. We also know that a commission is usually set up, and it must then stay within a certain framework, but there is a risk that the Social Democratic Party will come out with a service commission which says that the benefits are appropriate and that they should not be higher, but perhaps some of them should be lower. You never know what they're gonna come out with. That is the danger of a service commission, because you never know what they will bring. Will the Social Democratic Party follow to the letter what they are bringing?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412121300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412121301	I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, that it is much more appropriate to ask someone other than the Service Commission to do so rather than do what the Danish People's Party did, namely just to sit down with a bourgeois government and then do something that got 190 people into employment. That is a much more decent piece of work. Of course we will deal with it, but this is very uncertain, because if Denmark is in the unhappy situation, that we have a civil government afterwards, then it will not happen. It may also be that, when the Services Commission is completed, we are proposing something that is, of course, new and not this, but cannot get a majority in favour of it. But that's what we're gonna have to see at that time. I think it's really good to think forward and ask others to look at it and then try to talk broadly in here to see if we can't agree on something proper instead of this piece of shit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412121344	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I'll postpone the meeting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412130025	The debate is open and the Minister is in place. Does anyone wish to speak? There is no, and since that is not the case, the negotiations have been concluded. Would you like to refer to the committee? It does not, and then the proposal goes straight to the second and final reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412130114	The debate is open. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 17 April 2018. I have seen the Minister present, but a rapporteur for the questioners is not yet present. It is said that he is on his way and, as I do with the bourgeois and socialist rapporteurs, I give just 10 or 20 seconds, but no more. We warmly welcome the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten, who is the first to have the floor. He was 10 seconds away from having his point canceled. And there is a whole fresh glass of water for the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412130225	I apologise for that, I had been wrong about the agenda or how far it was advanced. Well, we have put this question here because we believe that the Minister and the Government have made it difficult to find a solution to the collective bargaining process in the form of a negotiated solution. And we are very concerned about the way in which the Minister has used his mandate by rushing aggressively and hard forward; apparently in an attempt to intimidate the public employees and their organisations, but obviously this has not been achieved. The very comprehensive lock-out warning sent by the public employers is, after all, designed to pave the way for rapid legislative action if one cannot agree at the negotiating table, which is now in the conciliation or what it is doing gradually. The lockout warning is therefore completely out of proportion. Some 440,000 employees are covered and more than half of all public employees in this country are in opposition to a relatively limited strike notice from employees' organizations, which includes approx. 100,000 employees. It seems that it can be predicted with quite a degree of certainty that they announced conflicts with so many employees involved will not be allowed to run very long if it should come so far before the government and a majority of the people intervene. The Enhedslisten will certainly be accused in this debate of interfering in the negotiations and in the so-called Danish model. We are not doing so now, on the contrary, and this will be reflected in the proposal for adoption we will be putting forward later in the debate. But of course we take very seriously the concern about unilateral legislative action on the grounds of employers, which many public employees and their organisations have. Because it has to be said that the tracks are undoubtedly scaring. In connection with this question, the Folketing has the opportunity to state that it is intended to ensure fair negotiation for employees and not to intervene unilaterally with legislative action, as has happened in the past. Such intervention would, moreover, be the ultimate political interference in the negotiations and thus also contribute to undermining the Danish negotiating model. And I can say that the Enhedslisten will certainly not participate in such interference. That should be the reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412130506	Thank you. And welcome to the Minister of Public Innovation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412130518	Thank you. As Minister of Innovation, I am the State's representative and senior negotiator of state employers and thus politically responsible for the ongoing state-owned collective bargaining. Negotiations on the major topics of negotiation take place between the minister responsible and the trade unions, and this is a fundamental element of the Danish model in the state field. The current model, in which employees and employers' organisations conclude collective agreements on terms and conditions of employment, has worked on the Danish labour market for more than 100 years. The special feature of the Danish model and the Danish labour market is that as long as the parties are able to solve the problems themselves, the Folketing does not interfere in the regulation of pay and working conditions. We are currently in a very serious situation in the state and in the rest of the public labour market. At the moment, as you know, the parties are negotiating in the Conciliation Body, where we are debating in silence, and so I also have confidentiality in relation to the content of the ongoing negotiations under the Conciliation Act, which, of course, significantly limits how much I can go into concrete negotiating issues. But let me start by stating that I have the utmost respect for the thousands of skilled and committed employees who work around the whole public sector every day, whether it be municipalities, regions or the state. It is all employees who make an indispensable effort every day, and without them we would not have one of the world's best and most well-functioning welfare societies either. What all parties are therefore now concerned about is how we can get the ends to meet, even if it looks difficult, so that we can have an overall outcome to the agreement, and thus not end up in a conflict situation. In the question put by the Enhedslisten, two specific questions have been asked: what can I tell you about the mandate given by the government for the negotiations, and what is the government's position on intervention in a possible conflict? In relation to the first, it goes without saying that I do not share my negotiating mandate with the Folketing, as it will of course significantly weaken the state employer's negotiating position. In relation to the other, it can be noted that I work hard to reach an agreement so that we avoid a conflict to the detriment of Denmark and the Danes. Furthermore, for reasons of principle, I do not wish to contribute to speculation about possible legislative action. For it is the Folketing that decides on a possible legislative action if one comes into a conflict where there are such important public interests at stake that it is the necessary step to take. In addition, it is the Minister for Employment who is responsible for the law on mediation in labour disputes and labour law. It is therefore also within the remit of the Minister of Employment to monitor the development of possible conflicts in the labour market. We do not want a conflict, we want a negotiated agreement, that is what we are using our gunpowder on in the negotiations in the Conciliation Institution. To Parliament's information, I have clearly communicated the wishes of the state employers in three main areas of the collective bargaining process to an agreement: firstly, an agreement with a responsible financial framework; secondly, an agreement with a more up-to-date wage system in the state, in which a greater proportion of the wage is set locally at the individual workplace; and thirdly, a better and more targeted use of the means of competence so that they are used to address the current but also more strategic needs of the state in, for example, the United Kingdom. the digital and technological skills of the employees. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that, as the representative of the state in the negotiations under way, I am working hard to find a solution and to obtain an agreement for the benefit of all parties and thus for the benefit of Denmark and the Danes. We do not want a conflict with which no one can be served.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412130954	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate, and the rapporteur for the questioners will have the floor first. And this is sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131005	The time has fallen; it is five minutes to twelve for the civil servants and for all the users of our common welfare. And I think it can be said that the whole of Denmark is holding its breath these days and these weeks, when every day we are getting closer to a major conflict, a major conflict which we believe has been brought completely out of proportion to the violent lock-out warning against 440,000 public employees that the government, KL and Danske Regions have decided to hit the Danes. The agreement negotiations for the state, municipalities and regions are in the final phase, but it is the government that has the key to a solution. After all, the reasonable demands on which public servants have entered into a joint musketeer's declaration are not difficult or expensive to meet. It costs no more to register lunch as a collective right when it is already practiced. Nor does it cost much extra money if teachers get a working time agreement which in turn equates them with other public and private employees who get working hours regulated in agreements after negotiations. And it does not cost huge sums of money to meet the public employees' desire for a real wage development in line with private employees. It is our view that we can afford to meet these demands when we consider the profits of the Treasury and the economic room for manoeuvre that is so much talked about. The question is, of course, why we are in such a pressure situation. Has the government from the start of the negotiations put in place a strategy to sit with crossed arms while at the same time rattling the saber by making an excessive lockout warning so that the government and a majority in the Folketing can quickly come up with legislative action? I note that the Minister already in December, that is. At the beginning of the negotiation phase, it was stated that despite the economic recovery, wage increases in the public sector are not likely to be high, because they are detrimental to competitiveness if the wage in the public sector is higher than in the private sector. Is it really the view of the government that the pay for the heroes of welfare, as we call them, is not about what they are doing for citizens, but about what is important for the competitiveness of private business in relation to the outside world? Is it really about the public employees having to pay the bill for the economic strategy of the previous and present government, popularly known as the Corydon doctrine, which is reflected in the Modernisation Board's target and performance plans and the annual report for 2017, where the Modernisation Board, as it says, will make public pay and working time an essential and integral part of the expenditure policy, and where it is also shown that it is the goal of OK18 that a result is achieved with a narrow financial framework? Well, that's pretty much it. With this economic strategy, which links its economic policy directly with the collective bargaining process, it is of course a question of whether, from the outset, the negotiation of the agreement has in fact been politically infected, if I may put it that way. The Minister's statement that the employees in the negotiations are most concerned with taking and not giving is, I suppose, a relief. The question that naturally arises is, of course, whether the Minister thinks it has been a wise strategy when the prospect of a conflict is so imminent. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister said: I do not think there are many Danes who want a conflict, but that is why it may come. Is it the government's view that a conflict is now the most likely? It's part of the Danish model where you use the conflict weapon, if you can't agree either after a trip. Will the government allow the conflict to run and thus allow the Danish model to live? The big question with which all public servants and all of us are left is whether the government will use its power to intervene together with a majority in the Folketing, and in that case it will repeat the abuse that teachers and the Danish primary school are still suffering and which has led to teachers fleeing from the deteriorating working conditions. In the light of the Prime Minister's statement, we must also ask whether the government is already planning the content of a legislative action and whether there are already contacts with other parties. In other words, should we again witness a planned process, as we saw in 2016, when teachers were run over, where there was a script for the negotiations, for the conflict and for the intervention? Let me conclude by expressing respect for the fact that the Danish employees have come together to find a solution for everyone, a solution that gives public employees the recognition and respect they deserve. Then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption from the Enhedslisten, which I have here. It is quite short: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that collective bargaining in the public sector takes place in accordance with the rules of the Danish collective agreement model. Parliament expresses the hope that the parties will reach an agreement. In the event of a conflict, the Danish Parliament will reject a legislative measure on the basis of employers, and at the same time the Danish Parliament calls on the government to earmark savings in wage costs in the territory of the State by a possible lockout to welfare. • V 47).
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131538	Thanks to the questioner. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131547	Thank you. This is one of the very last things in the proposal for adoption that I would just like to make sure that the Enhedslisten will help to ensure that it is a unanimous Parliament which, when we come to vote for adoption, is behind ensuring that the funds that the state may save if there is a lockout situation are secured for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131614	Yes, in the sense that the most important thing for us is, of course, the passage in our own proposal for adoption, which states that the Folketing does not intervene or take legislative action on the grounds of employers. If it can be included in a joint proposal for adoption, we are of course in favour of it. If it is not included, we cannot, in fact, be involved, because it is the most important thing for us to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131641	Yeah, the Enhedslisten has to make that up to himself. I do not think there is a majority in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption. Then I would just like, in all remembrance, to advocacy that it might send a good signal to the many citizens out there and to the many civil servants that if we come to a lockout, we will at least agree to earmark those funds for welfare rather than just disappearing into thin air. I would actually believe that the Enhedslisten will support that too, but obviously not?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131711	Yes, and that is why it is in our own proposal for adoption, so there should be no doubt about that. But it is also important to us, as I said before, that this Parliament indicates that, like last time, in 2013, it does not intervene in a possible conflict to the detriment of the Danish model, but lets it run. This is absolutely important to us. And we think that will be a really, very good signal to send to the public employees that here we negotiate, and here we act; we strike, and we are the lockout, and what we do now in accordance with the Danish model. But they do not have to be in conflict with a fear that now they are being beaten up in the head with the big club of parliament and government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131752	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131753	Thank you. The reason I'm asking is because I think there's so many ifs in this. For that, sir. Martin Lidegaard asks if Enhedslisten will help ensure that it goes to welfare. But I think I understand sir. Henning Hyllested, that it requires the government not to intervene. This means that if the government intervenes, the Enhedslisten will not help secure the means of welfare. I understood that the two things were connected. It's just to get it right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131828	It is important that we respect the Danish model. The Danish model says that you take out requirements and negotiate requirements. If you cannot agree, you go to the Conciliation Institution and try there with a mediator at the table end. If it is also not possible, either not to make a mediation proposal, or that a possible mediation proposal is voted down by, for example, the United Kingdom. That leaves the possibility of conflict. That is why strike and lockout has been announced, and it belongs to the Danish model. Government intervention is not part of the Danish model. It is a club that politicians have and, in this case, politicians are also employers and who they have taken on the right to use repeatedly. And that is the pressure that the club we want removed if we are to respect the Danish model so that the Danish employees can carry out their conflict undisturbed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412131926	I may be wrong, but I think I have heard something about some of Enhedslisten's people out there in the municipalities wanting the money saved to be returned to the employees. It's not as such for the welfare model. I just can't make it really hang out. Sir. Henning Hyllested says it requires that the government does not intervene. If the government does not intervene, the Enhedslisten will have the money to go to welfare, even if the conflict can then last for as long as the strike fund has money. That's kind of it. But if the government intervenes, the Enhedslisten will not help the money go to welfare. That's how I get it, but it may be that I'm completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132013-2	Mr. Bent Bøgsted totally misunderstood. It is quite the opposite. That is also why it is in our own proposal for adoption. We want to be a part of that. After all, it should not be the case that public employers can save money and put it in the treasury, the municipal coffers or the state treasury. It has to be said that the money, the wages saved, then goes to welfare. That's why, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen plays out with it. It is, of course, to counter the argument that public employers are saving a lot of money on the conflicts. We understand that very well, and we think that is an excellent idea. Of course it is. There is no reason why the state or municipalities should save money on this. So, yes, we support the excellent idea. That is why it is in our own proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132102	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested, and welcome to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132115	Thank you, President. I would just like to start by speaking outside my script and just start by commending the Enhedslisten for giving us the opportunity, in a rather extraordinary way, to be able to establish the principle that the Prime Minister launched during the Question Time last Tuesday, i.e. to be able to send any savings back to welfare. It was not in the cards that we would have an immediate opportunity to address it, but we have got it now. I will return to the proposal for adoption by a large majority of parties, but with that proposal for adoption we have the opportunity to send a signal that a broad majority is behind it in the Folketing, and I think that is useful, not least because there have been some statements in the media which could be interpreted differently from some parties, and we can at least make it clear that there is support in that line. We in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned that public employees have good pay and working conditions. That is why we have also said over and over again that we must give priority to welfare first, for example. not tax relief to the top of Denmark. Similarly, we have criticised the fact that employees in our hospitals and our nursing homes are running too fast. I would like to make that absolutely clear. But the matter is just the one and it is the most important thing in terms of today's debate that collective bargaining, and what they are negotiating, is a matter for the social partners, because both parties must be able to negotiate freely, without it being forced to or dictated by us politicians at Christiansborg. Although it may be obvious for some to speak about everything, everything that could be done in the course of negotiations, it is our wish to give the negotiators peace of mind. I want to give them the best working conditions when, in these last crucial days, they are trying to land agreements on wages and working conditions for many thousands, tens of thousands of public employees, because the more we are painting ourselves in a corner or putting pressure on from all sides, the more difficult it will be for the negotiators to find each other. That is why we are not interfering in the actual negotiations or any conflict, nor are we interfering with the announcements of strikes and lockouts. Those parts are also part of our unique negotiating model. We do this out of respect for the negotiating environment and for both sides, both the trade union movement and the representatives of municipalities, regions and states, to be able to negotiate freely and equally as two equal partners. It must not be an errand for the political parties in the Folketing, and I am convinced that it will benefit no one whose agreements instead must be discussed here in the Folketing and be subjects of the election campaign. As most people are aware, very conscious even, dealers are subject to professional secrecy. It is part of the basis for the Danish model and for the cooperation of the Conciliation Institution. We both recognise and respect that. This week we have also had to make it clear, as I started my speech with, that a conflict is of course not going to be used to save on welfare. There were legitimate doubts about it in some places, but let me just make one thing quite clear: no matter how one had to make a calculation, a major conflict will have major consequences for the Danes and for our common welfare community: schools that have to keep closed; necessary operations that are delayed; and, for example, slaughterhouses that have to send people home because official controls are cancelled. That is precisely why we are so concerned about the success of the negotiations and, fortunately, negotiations are still under way. That is why it is our position today that we give the negotiators space and do not interfere unnecessarily. There must be free negotiations on both sides without interference here from the Folketing, completely in line with the principles of our unique negotiating model. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservatives, I am going to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that collective bargaining in the public sector is currently taking place in the Conciliation Institution. The Danish Parliament supports the Danish model and calls for collective bargaining in the public sector to continue between the parties in accordance with the principles of the Danish model. The Folketing also urges the government to ensure that savings in wage costs for the state by a possible lockout are reserved for welfare. • V 48).
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132704	Thank you. We proceed with brief remarks, and the first is from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132711	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht calls on the negotiators to work quietly and rightly says that collective bargaining is a matter for the social partners. Is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht agrees with me that a government intervention is not part of the Danish model and that the Danish model says that here we take out demands, we negotiate demands, and if we cannot agree, we try to reach a settlement in the Conciliation Institution, and if that is not possible, are we called strike and lockout respectively? A government intervention is an opportunity that we, as parliamentary politicians, have, but is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht agrees with me that this is not part of the Danish model, and that if you state on the part of the Danish Parliament that you will not intervene unilaterally in favour of employers, as happened in 2013, you will instead ease the pressure on the negotiators? There's a difference between not interfering and sticking with someone. However, does the rapporteur agree that we are actually easing the pressure on the negotiations by stating that we are not making the big club that I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132841	In my opinion, the mere fact that we begin to speculate on intervention is not at all relevant at this stage, and that is actually what Mr. Henning Hyllested does. And I understand, sir. Henning Hyllested's motivations, but only the fact that we are discussing the potential situation at all, the theoretical scenario, means that we can therefore also indirectly begin to interfere. In other words, it is important that we ensure that the negotiators who are sitting and negotiating now have all the peace and quiet they need, and all I have to say is that they should have time, that they should have space and that both parties have the opportunity and freedom to negotiate with each other. I would say that almost no matter how Mr. Henning Hyllested had to formulate his question, it will almost per. In the case of the United States and Japan, the Commission is not prepared to take any action on this matter. And I do not want to speculate about what happens when an agreement is not negotiated, because I want the parties to the agreement to reach each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412132958	It's not like it's out of thin air. Speculation and speculation - yes, we do not know it in the specific situation, but it is not the case that government intervention is possible. So it is no longer back than in 2013 that we saw it and where unilateral action was taken in favour of employers, following a carefully planned plan. So when Mr. Benny Engelbrecht claims that this is pure speculation and in fact makes the negotiations difficult, I would say that I do not see it; I simply do not understand that argument. For it is clear that, what to say, there is a threat hanging over the heads of the employees' negotiators, because they can easily remember back to 2013. And that's why I think it would be a good thing if we said: we're not going with that club. Well, sir. Benny Engelbrecht does not agree with me that the lock-out warning in itself paves the way for and indicates that government intervention is certainly a nearby opportunity for public employers because they have that option?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133109	Both strike and lockout are natural parts, natural elements of the Danish model and, as I have said before, and I would like to repeat it, it is crucial that both parties have the freedom to act within the framework that the Danish model may give them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133129	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133130	The rapporteur says that the aim must be for the parties to negotiate freely. We fully agree with that in the Enhedslist, and that is precisely the content of the proposal for adoption that we have put forward, namely that we must send a clear signal that it is free negotiations; that, as in 2013, there is no master plan that knows that there will be action at some point in favour of employers, so that they will get what they want, because then there will be no free negotiations. That is not relevant, says the rapporteur. I think it is to such an extent that it is for a great many civil servants; it is extremely relevant. I think that many of us have been out talking because everyone is affected by this conflict with people employed in the public sector, and there was a widespread expectation that this will just be a government intervention and that we will see a repeat, that is, that they are now making a huge lockout so that they can quickly justify a government intervention. Today in the Danish Parliament, if the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party wanted to contribute to this, we could send a very clear signal to the employees that this time there is an equal playing field; that this time a master plan has not been drawn up in advance; that this time there will be no unilateral intervention in favour of employers; that is, free negotiations. Why will the rapporteur's party not be involved in sending out the clear signal to employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133251	I send the clear signal to the employees that we are not dealing with a theoretical scenario in the event that the negotiators do not reach a solution. Because if I started to speculate, there would be no free negotiations and free negotiations for both parties in this context. So I actually think it is a very important signal to send out that what we are concerned with is that the parties find each other. And, of course, if so, with the conciliation officer's intervention, that is clear. However, it is very important that we do not speculate in a scenario that may arise in the event that things break down. I also think it is actually a clear signal to send out that if the worst-case scenario arises, which we do not hope it does, then it is also important that we have taken the fire out of a possible consideration of whether, if there are savings in public wages within the territory of the State, then, if so, we could go to all sorts of strange things, as we have seen, for example, bourgeois members of the Folketing express, that is to say, that we could then give them tax cuts or anything else. So I actually think, as I said earlier, that it is fair that we should have this debate today, and that by doing so we can send the signal that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133429	I think that is a bit contradictory. One would like to say that if there is a conflict, that is to say if there is speculation, then the money has to go to this. That is a good thing, but there are already speculations. But, on the other hand, we will not, for some reason, send a clear signal to both sides that this time the free negotiations will be held; that this time there is no master plan; that this time my party, in this case the Social Democratic Party, will not help to run over employees by government action, as happened, unfortunately, with the participation of a broad majority here in the Folketing in 2013. It's not speculation. This is what sits on the shoulders of public servants now when they go to meetings with their colleagues; when they sit in the Conciliation Institution. After all, they are afraid that it will happen again. That is precisely why it is not free negotiations, and that is precisely why we could send out a very clear signal today if we could support the Enhedslisten's proposal for the approval of the public employees that this time it is free negotiations: now you have to negotiate further in the Conciliation Institution, and you are equal parties, because no one will come and intervene in the one's advantage afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133533	But I actually consider the parties to be equal, and that is also the signal I am sending. Then I'll have to address it, as sir. Pelle Dragsted says that it should be the exception that we are now discussing this situation if there is a conflict and there are savings in wages. There I must stress that the reason why we are dealing with it today is, of course, that on Tuesday the Prime Minister mentioned this in Question Time, and on the basis of what we saw as a matter of course, I would like to stress this, so we did not really think it was necessary to say it, but now the Prime Minister said it so afterwards that there are bourgeois politicians, representatives of the government parties who do not share that view, that is to say, who disagree with the Prime Minister. And then, of course, we need today to send out the joint signal from a joint Parliament that, of course, and of course I hope that Enhedslisten will agree when we come to vote on the proposals for adoption, because that is what is contained in both of them, so that there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133644	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133646	I think it is a fine signal to send out that the funds that might be saved in the event of a conflict should go back to the welfare area. But I think it's thought-provoking that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht does not also think it is an important and crucial signal to send out that the Social Democrats will not be involved in legislative action which is unilaterally in favour of employers. It is, of course, essential for the negotiations that are currently taking place that we know what will happen in that case. I think it's strange, as my colleague Mr. Pelle Dragsted has also just said that one would like to relate to the theoretical scenario that funds are being saved as a result of a lockout or strike, but that one would not relate to the theoretical scenario that it could then lead to a legislative action. Why is it that the Social Democrats cannot give a clear message on this issue? It is not even a question of whether or not there will be legislative action; it is a question of not being a unilateral legislative measure which merely exalts the demands made by employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133750	First of all, I would like to say that the reason why we are discussing at all what might happen in the theoretical scenario, that money had to be saved... state payrolls... is that the Prime Minister presented that message. Then there was doubt about it, and now we have the possibility, among other things. Because Enhedslisten has raised this query debate, to state that there must be doubts about that. I am not going to give style marks for the way it got over the ramp, but it might have been better handled, so that we should not discuss this at all today. Then I must still rely on the fact that if we start to wonder what might happen in the event that a conflict breaks out, in other words that we do not reach a negotiated agreement, we will in fact start a discussion which can directly or indirectly put pressure on the negotiators on both sides. And, as I have said before, we are concerned that both parties can negotiate freely, because we believe that this is the best way to achieve a solution. And then Mrs Stine Brix will have to take my word when I say that we have neither dealt theoretically nor specifically with anything whatsoever, and we will not do so until such a situation arises, and we hope it does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133923	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412133925	I believe that there is just as much doubt about the existence of a process which could ultimately lead to unilateral legislative action in favour of employers, and that same doubt could be used to eradicate it today. But that is not what the Social Democrats want, and I think that is something that causes concern among employees. And that's too bad. But I would like to ask another question. The Social Democratic Party, by virtue of their representation in KL and Danske Regions, has helped to adopt these very comprehensive lock-out warnings. I would really like to hear why it is that the Social Democrats are helping to push forward so hard. After all, this is a completely different strategy than we saw ten years ago in 2008, when the Social Democrats chose not to participate in the lockout that was otherwise planned in the KL at that time. At that time, Anker Boye, who represented the Social Democratic Party in the KL, said that it would escalate the conflict and it would harm citizens unnecessarily with such a violent lockout. So what is the reason why you look at it differently today than you did in 2008?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134041	For me, it is crucial that we, as politicians and as a party at Christiansborg, do not interfere directly in collective bargaining, because it is up to the social partners to discuss the pay and working conditions of public employees. Here it is important to be free and equal in order to be able to negotiate without any interference from the Folketing in any way. However, our negotiating model has always been that of representatives of mayors, regional councils and the Minister, in this case the Minister for Innovation, who negotiates. And it is, of course, independent of the party political interests that may be at Christiansborg. There must be complete independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134138	Then we try to give the floor to a former negotiator. Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134143	Now, for good reasons, we do not know what is going on in the negotiations in the conciliation institution, but I think that one has to be very tone down for not having discovered that there are three major issues: there are pay, there is a meal break and there are teachers' working time rules. Does the rapporteur not agree that some of what seems to complicate the whole current negotiating situation is that it was precisely not left to the social partners to agree on what working time rules should be in the area of teaching, but that the Danish Parliament interfered in the collective bargaining process and unilaterally determined the teacher's working time according to the demands of employers? Does the rapporteur not agree that precisely the action taken in 2013 is one of the reasons why we are in a very difficult situation at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134239	However, there is no doubt that the process that took place in 2013 was unsightly, and everyone can see that, but it does not change the basic fact that today it is also the case that the parties must be free to negotiate, and I do indeed consider that to be the case, regardless of what doubts may have been raised about it, the parties. It is probably also very well exemplified by the fact that the negotiations are in fact still taking place in the Conciliation Body. Well, at least it shows that there's an opportunity. It must of course be the case that the conciliation officer, who is a woman, but prefers to be called such a person, can see that there are some options, otherwise the negotiations would not still take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134341	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134343	I think there are many of us who hope that the negotiations will end with a good result, not least in the Enhedslisten, we hope that this will be a very good result for employees. However, when the rapporteur says that it was a very unsightly process in 2013, that is to say that first the teachers were locked out and then intervened unilaterally to the benefit of employers, why is it that the rapporteur will not guarantee that we will not have a similar unsightly course this time? It should be very simple. When the rapporteur himself acknowledges that it was unbelievable, why not give a guarantee that it will not happen again?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134423	The best guarantee will be to ensure that the Folketing gives both parties the best possible freedom to negotiate and that is probably a lesson for all 179 members of the Folketing. Ah, perhaps 178, because one is actually a minister and thus a negotiator. So this may be a special situation. But the rest of us should give maximum freedom to the parties to the agreement so that they can reach an agreement. And I fully agree that a good agreement will of course be one in which both parties can see themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134504	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht for today's work, and welcome to Mr. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134519	Thank you for that, President. Now we have a debate here on the collective bargaining process: whether there will be a conflict and what will happen in the event of a conflict. And reference is made to what happened in 2013 during the conflict. I would like to start by saying that I think that, in relation to the negotiations that are taking place in the Conciliation Body, it is very inappropriate that we should have a debate at this stage and that Enhedslisten is trying to impose an agreement that we should not intervene and that we should not intervene on employers' grounds. I would say that it will never be on employers' terms that intervention will be taken, because it will be on the basis of what the conciliation woman will bring. It is not the case that the Minister will then intervene with something that the Minister himself makes up, but that is what the conciliation woman will bring in. That is why it is a combination of the premises of employees and employers. There is no doubt about who the Danish People's Party sympathises with, but I do not think a debate should be held here today. It seems like you're taking an advance on this and saying that there's gonna be a conflict, because they can't find a solution. I think we should let the negotiating parties have peace to negotiate in the Conciliation Institution and then be so grown up in this Parliament that we do not start an untimely debate. It's fine to have a debate on everything, but you can have it afterwards when it's all over. Then you could take a question about how it all goes on. But right here and now, when this is taking place in the Conciliation Institution, I really think that we in the Folketing should not take that debate and interfere with it. That is why I am not going to comment very much on what Enhedslisten has proposed and what they are asking for. But I just want to say that the Danish People's Party is waiting with serenity for what the reconciliation institution is coming to. And then we'll see what they come up with. We believe and hope, of course, that there will be an agreement within a short time. After all, the reconciliation woman has another 14 days' delay and will they not find a solution before that time is over? So of course the Danish People's Party supports the joint proposal for adoption, which has been put forward by most of the parties in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134816	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134819	I don't quite understand, sir. Bent Bøgsted's call to take it very calmly, and that Mr. Bent Bøgsted may claim that any intervention will be based on the conciliation officer's presentation. After all, this was not what the public employees and, in particular, the teachers experienced in the last collective bargaining in 2013. It was, on the contrary, a clear intervention on the grounds of employers by those politicians who had a intention and a policy in relation to the primary school that they wanted to have through. So it was a clear dictation. I can't quite understand either, sir. Bent Bøgsted's speech here today. The chairman of the party, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, soon a while ago, has been there to say that what happened in 2013 may not have been so clever, and that you have some sort of penance to go • in other words, that you owe. I can't quite make it hang out with Mr. Kim. Bent Bøgsted's position on any government intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412134945	It is absolutely correct what Mr. Henning Hyllested quotes my party chairman for that, and we stand by that too. This has nothing to do with it. After all, we openly recognise that, as it looked then, some people were run over in that game, and that is what we are warning against coming back to. We also believe that those who sit and have to negotiate, even if it comes to a conflict, and the government has learned from the last time, so that this government does not make the same mistakes that the previous SR government made at that time. We are sure that lessons have been learnt from this, and I do not believe that our current Minister for Innovation will make the same mistake that the then Minister in this area made back in 2013. I am sure the Minister can see that this was not a very good job. But let us give the parties peace and quiet to negotiate this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135054	Yes, hope may be bright green, and it may be that Mr. Bent Bøgsted has some high expectations of the Minister of Innovation and that the government has learned from the previous government intervention. But why not go along with the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption, which says precisely that we should not intervene in favour of one party, that we should not intervene in favour of employers and on their terms? That is, of course, what our proposal for adoption contains, so that we do not come back to that situation. - Sir, you can. Bent Bøgsted is, of course, helping to secure by creating a majority for the proposal for adoption and not just parking it with a pious hope that the Minister of Innovation will behave properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135151	It's kind of weird, for Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested wants the Danish People's Party to jump on the wagon and say: No matter how you breed, you can be assured that there will be no intervention; even if you strike for 100 years, there will be no intervention. Sir. Henning Hyllested says that action should not be taken if it is on the basis of employers, but if it is on the basis of employees, Mr. Henning Hyllested would like an intervention. That's also what you can deduce from this. That's something weird. Don't get involved in these collective bargaining. That's what Enhedslisten is doing. We know that Enhedslisten does not give a damn about the Danish negotiating model. Enhedslisten cares how it happens, just Enhedslisten gets it as they want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135248	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135250	I think that is very nice statements by a representative of a party who has today recognised that months before the conflict in 2013 it was involved in planning this process, was informed that there would be government action and has a deep responsibility for the attack on the Danish model that took place in OK-13. To have to hear a representative of that party attacking Enhedslisten to stand in the way or be against the Danish model is simply almost laughing and the rapporteur should be ashamed to make those claims. We are defending the Danish model, and what we are saying with this proposal to the employees and, indeed, to the other negotiators, is just: there will be no repetition of what happened then. I think it's nice that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has been out to acknowledge what happened. It has been important to shed light on the matter that the contacts were there long before the whole thing was planned. But then I think we owe it to the parties involved in the foxcake to say clearly to the employees this time: it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135400	I have to say that this is a rather serious accusation. The Danish People's Party voted in favour of the intervention, yes, but I would ask Mr. Pelle Dragsted presents evidence that the Danish People's Party has been involved in planning what the intervention should be about. Those are some very serious accusations, sir. Pelle Dragsted is coming with us, and if not, sir. Pelle Dragsted has some clear evidence, I think that Mr. Pelle Dragsted was supposed to pull it back. I freely acknowledge that the Danish People's Party voted in favour of the intervention, yes, but we did not participate in planning, and if Pelle Dragsted has proof of it and can present it in writing, then I think that Mr. Pelle Dragsted has to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135437	Well, it has been made clear by the chairman of the rapporteur's own party that we were informed months before they were asked whether we would be prepared to take government action, asked what the views were on it. One could have gone out in public and said that when one could have gone out and said in the conflict that the probes, which are clearly contrary to the Danish model, had been there by the government. You didn't choose to do that. All honour and respect for having done so later, but of course the Danish People's Party then bears a share of responsibility because they helped to form the majority and did not say clearly against the attack on the Danish model that happened at the time. The fact that you have later done so seems to me to be very good, and many other parties in here could learn something from it, so respect for it, but you had a share of responsibility at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135522	Well, that's not it, sir. Pelle Dragsted said in the first place. Sir. Pelle Dragsted said that the Danish People's Party helped plan the procedure. That's it, sir. Pelle Dragsted said, and that's when I say that Mr. Pelle Dragsted will provide evidence of that. Yes, we helped to vote in favour of an intervention, but we did not help to plan what the content should be, and that is it, sir. Pelle Dragsted here in Parliament has said that the Danish People's Party was involved, and Mr. Pelle Dragsted then present evidence that we've been.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135551	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135552	I'd like to ask Mr. Bent Bøgsted on why the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal for adoption that we have tabled, in Mr. Bent Bøgsted's interpretation just before it sounded as if it was a matter of completely denying that in any possible scenario there could be a legislative action. But that is not what the adoption says. It is very clear that what we want to give out of guarantee on our part, and which we had actually hoped other parties would be involved in, is to say: the progress of 2013 will not be repeated. We want to guarantee that there will be no unilateral legislative action based solely on the employers' approach to the negotiations, in other words on employers' terms. Why is it that the Danish People's Party will not support such a formulation, not least in the light of the recognition which Mr. Bent Bøgsted himself mentioned just now, namely that it was a last-time event in which the teachers were run over?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135649	Now, for the record, I have to say that I was sent a proposal for adoption by Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested, who had a quite different text from the one that lies here. I have only seen this text today, and the text that was sent to me was a completely different text, among other things. There was also something about working time. The text is in my place. I didn't bring it up here, but I have it down there, and that's the text that I've seen and that I wrote to Mr. Henning Hyllested Dansk Folkeparti could not participate. I didn't bring it up here because it's in the square. I brought it up here today, and it is only today that I have seen it, and I am quite convinced of that. Henning Hyllested can confirm. So I have not had the opportunity to take a position on it here until I sit down here in the Chamber today and until I hear it being read from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135737	But then Mr. Bent Bøgsted is an opportunity to do so now, if it is that it is a different text from that of Mr Bøgsted. Bent Bøgsted thought we'd make it. I think this one was sent around yesterday too, but leave it alone. It is not for a few days or, I think, next week that the actual vote should be. But what is the wording of the text which is currently in force, and which is the only substantively binding sentence, is that the Folketing rejects legislative action on the grounds of employers. And then the same thing, which is also apparent from the second text, namely that the Folketing at the same time calls on the government to earmark, by means of a possible lockout, savings in wage costs in the field of state welfare. Why is it that the Danish People's Party cannot support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135824	Now it is the case that the Danish People's Party is involved in an agreement that saved wage costs should go to welfare and that it has been included in the Enhedslisten, perhaps because I was kind enough to send that text to Mr. Henning Hyllested, who showed what the majority would make of proposals. It is after that that that was then addressed. Fair enough, this is okay. But it shouldn't be like that. But I have only seen this text today, and I can see from the text that lies down there that this one thing with welfare is not included in one word.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135859	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412135900	In the past, when there were negotiations, the framework for negotiations was to achieve wage increases similar to those achieved in the private labour market. But we have seen this, and we have seen this since 2013 and have seen that collective bargaining with the Modernisation Authority has been used increasingly by the State or public authorities as an opportunity to free up funds to give priority to political initiatives. Well, that means that, and that's what I'm actually gonna ask, sir. Bent Bøgsted on what the rapporteur's position on is that the whole framework for collective bargaining, as we saw in 2013, and as it is today, has been politically infected, because precisely with the Modernisation Authority the approach here lies that an agreement negotiation can be used to free up funds for political initiatives. What does Mr. Bent Bøgsted about the fundamental change that we have seen in this way of the Danish model?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140008-2	That is a fair question, I would say. There has been a great deal of debate about the Danish model. The director of KL has also been out to say that the Danish model was about to be destroyed, and if there was an intervention for the third time, one could discuss whether it was passé. I think it is fair enough to have a debate on this, and I also think it is fair enough, after the negotiations on collective agreements have been concluded and everything has been settled, to have a debate on the future of the Danish model. There it will be fair enough to take it. I just don't think we should do it right here and now that they're close to concluding the negotiations, hopefully. We do not know what the outcome will be, because there are still opportunities in the negotiations. But that would be fair enough, as Mr. Rune Lund says to have a debate about the future of the Danish model and what to do with it, but I just don't think we should do it right now and here where we are engaged in collective bargaining. We can do that when the collective bargaining is over. Then we would much rather take part in a debate on what the Danish model will look like in the future and whether it is under pressure or not under pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140119	In fact, I am asking most because I think it is a little hypocritical that there are some parties who argue that we will not interfere in collective bargaining at all when the very same parties have helped to provide a basic framework for the negotiations, which means that, as a starting point, they are deeply politically infected, when certain parties want to free up funds in the context of collective bargaining, which can be used for political initiatives. I have a question in connection with the collective bargaining that is currently underway: Has the Danish People's Party been in discussion with the Minister about the Danish People's Party's view of a possible government intervention, as happened in connection with the teacher's conflict in 2013?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140201	Not that I know of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140205	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted for today's work, and welcome to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140217	Thank you, sir. President. The negotiations are in full swing at the conciliation institution, which is why I really find it strange that we have this debate at all today. I think it was sir. Bent Bøgsted, who called it almost inappropriate to have to take this debate, and I agree with that. Secondly, it is beginning to approach some political interference when we are going to have such a question debate today. I would like to express my appreciation and great respect for the many employees in the public sector who work hard every day to make the public sector function best and to provide the help and services that citizens need. I would also like to express recognition and respect for the Danish model developed in the Danish labour market, where the parties negotiate their wages and conditions of employment, and this applies both in the public and in the private labour market. I think we should allow the parties to be at peace now, together with the conciliation institution, to find a solution to the situation in which they are, and I can only express the wish that they reach an agreement. Because, as the Minister mentioned at the outset, none of us has any interest whatsoever in this developing into a conflict. So that is the comments of the Left on this debate: we want to give the parties peace to find an agreement. If we are going to start a longer discussion on how the Danish model is designed, I agree with Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted in that we must then take that at a later stage and certainly not here in the middle of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140411	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140418	There is no doubt that public servants have expressed great concern about whether they are again being met with unilateral political intervention. That is why we have raised this question debate, it is just as much to ease the pressure, because we do not believe that it is part of the Danish model, on the contrary, and we therefore do not believe that it is something to be used. The whole purpose of this and our proposal for adoption is precisely to say that the Danish Parliament promises not to interfere in the Danish model. So when Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen says that this is approaching political interference, I would say: no, quite the opposite. It is precisely an attempt to keep the Danish model alive. It says that here we are negotiating, and if we cannot agree, we go to the mediation institution, and if we cannot agree there, then there is room for conflict by means of lockouts and strikes. It's the Danish model. What you have, if I may say so, invented, or you have not, because it has existed for many years, but the means you use from a political point of view has nothing to do with the Danish model. It can be said that exactly in the situation in which the public sector is negotiating, the very same politicians are also employers, and this makes it particularly worrying. That is why we are calling, as politicians and employers, at least, for us to state that this means we will not use, because it is unfair; it is unfair to employees who do not have the means at their disposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140607	Sir. Henning Hyllested cannot escape the fact that just when the Enhedslisten raises this question today, we are interfering in the debates that are going on because in its statements, in its questions and also in the proposal for adoption we both mention a possible legislative action and will also establish some grounds for how this could not happen. It is then to go in and try to predict some things and influence some things, which I think we should rightly refrain from. I think that we should express respect for the Danish model and for the fact that the parties are in the process and that they are now in the Conciliation Body negotiating, and rather than, as Mr. Henning Hyllested has just begun to have a more fundamental discussion now about who the parties are and what the terms of the parties are, and we are saving it for a different time than the very situation we are facing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140711	I have to repeat myself and say that it is not political interference that we are calling for or standing for. On the contrary. We have not concealed, moreover, the whole course of negotiations and so on, the fact that we are on the side of employees. Of course we do. We believe that they should be properly paid for the huge effort they make every day in the whole welfare sector. We are not hiding that, but it has nothing to do with our interfering. On the contrary. We ask the Danish Parliament to stay out of this, simply, and when Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen says that the Enhedslisten is already on the premises, I have to answer no. However, we are saying that intervention should not take place on the basis of employers. That is really in line with the Danish model, because it is true, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted said earlier that a possible conciliation proposal, which might be put to the vote and which would be rejected, would be made on the basis of some form, albeit not a consensus, but at least an indication by the parties in the conciliation institution that they could nod or nod to it. That is what lies in the Danish model, and that is why the Danish model is destroyed when one intervenes unilaterally.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140835	We really reached the heart of why we have this question debate today, namely that Enhedslisten wants to express: yes, we are on one side; we are on the side of the employees, and that is why we want to dictate some premises for something that might arise in some future situation. This is done instead of holding back, showing respect for the Danish model and leaving it to the parties in the situation to find a solution. I can only repeat what I said earlier. In fact, I think it is inappropriate that we should have this political debate today, because it cannot be interpreted as anything other than that Enhedslisten wants to interfere.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140910	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140915	I'd just like to ask you a few questions about a different angle. One of the things that has impressed me has been the so-called musketeered among the public employees. There I will try to ask a question where I do not, I think at least, interfere with anything. So what I want to ask is: does the rapporteur have the impression that all public servants have decided to stand shoulder to shoulder in this conflict? It's something we haven't seen before. So I would just like to ask whether this impresses the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412140952	Thank you for the question. My answer is that I do not want to express myself on the statements made by the parties. I also have in my reply to Mr Seligman's question. Henning Hyllested said: let us now leave it to the parties to find an agreement. I sincerely hope that they will succeed in reaching an agreement and that we can avoid a conflict situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141013	I can only agree with that one hundred percent. So let me put the question in another way so that perhaps the rapporteur can answer. Is it that the public employees are so significantly united this time across the employees of the state, the regions and the municipalities, something that will be reflected on afterwards in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141035	Yes, I agree that we will reflect on what has happened, even on previous occasions and in general. If there is a more substantial discussion at another time, then it is clear that it will be part of one's reflections. But I do not want to go into what the parties have had to say and have put on the table in this situation, because then I will fall into the trap that I think Enhedslisten is trying to lay for us all today, namely that we politically must interfere in the negotiations that are going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141109	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141113	I almost think it's a bit tragic to hear accusations against Enhedslisten for wanting to interfere in the Danish model and in these negotiations. So, this is a rapporteur for a party that contributed to the fox cake carried out with the teachers in 2013 and today it is perfectly clear that we know what happened; we know how the contacts were; we know that there was a master plan in advance; and we know that teachers were run over with intervention in favour of employers. So spare me this about Enhedslisten wanting to interfere with the Danish model. We have left that pleasure entirely to other parties, including the rapporteur's own party. What we are proposing is simply to secure a free debate by sending a clear signal to both parties that this time nobody should expect the government and a majority in the Folketing to come in and elevate employers' demands to law. That's kind of just what we're saying. That is simply to say: this time the negotiations are free. It is a pity that this is necessary. I agree with that, but it is after the course we witnessed in 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141224	I can only repeat myself in my reply to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, because we can see that the Enhedslisten wants to lay down some grounds for the proposal for adoption put forward by Enhedslisten for the debate on the question today. And then I guess it's no coincidence that Enhedslisten has chosen that we should have that query at this particular time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141247	After all, it is not ourselves who chooses the time for a request. But I want to ask you something else, since we are talking about interference in the Danish model. The Director of the Modernisation Authority has a bonus scheme, which is triggered compared to 2017, where one of the requirements to be met is that OK18 achieves a result with a narrow financial framework. If you achieve that, this 12 per cent bonus. of his salary equal to DKr 130,000. could be triggered. And in relation to the efforts made in 2018, one of the expectations is also an economically sound result. I just want to ask quite simply: is it wise to put forward a bonus for one of the negotiators on the employer side, which is specifically linked to some specific objectives of an agreement? Does this help to create confidence in the Danish model? Does this help to create a perception among the Danes that here we have a free debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141352	I have discovered that the Enhedslisten would like us rapporteurs to deal with individual elements of the negotiations, and I refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141402	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141411	Thank you. You can send signals in many ways, I think. And I understand that public servants believe that they should, for example, keep up with wage developments. I think that is actually a rather legal view to have, even as a politician, just as I note that there are other political leaders who think that it is quite okay to make such a comprehensive lockout that Denmark as a whole is almost closed down. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not true that, after all, there are also political arrangements in such an agreement debate, without each of us, moreover, having to think about the content of the agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141451	Yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141458	After all, this also gives rise to and legitimises the Enhedslisten's question debate today, because it is precisely in the public domain that political decisions are the basis for what results are being achieved. Then you can behave more or less wisely in the way you take the discussion. But it is merely a recognition that public contracts are also a political matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141525	Yes, I agree. What I think is wrong is to ask the Danish Parliament to deal with the content in the middle of the negotiations. Because this will be an interference in the negotiations between the parties and the situation in the conciliation institution now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141540	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141544	It must be understood that it was very unfortunate that the question debate was held at this very time, based on what was said earlier in the debate. I just want to know whether the rapporteur agrees with me that it is always possible to ask for a debate on questions to be postponed if, for example, it is felt to be in conflict with, let us say, a current collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141617	I can confirm that to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. In fact, I think that we have very far-reaching opportunities as rapporteur or as the initiator of, for example, the debate. A question to agree on when it will then be that we think that question should take place. In other words, the first step is already where the question is asked, and then we can actually go in and agree with each other and with the minister in this area when we think it is most appropriate to settle the question. So, in relation to the statements that have been made from various quarters that this should perhaps be discussed at a time when we are not in the middle of a highly tense negotiating situation in the conciliation institution, I would say that this could have been chosen, and I think that would have been more appropriate. So I can just fully confirm Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's voice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141704	Then we will take the next brief remark, it is from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141710	I would like to ask whether there have been any contacts between the Left and other parties in the Folketing in relation to the conditions for a possible government intervention in the current negotiations. At the same time, I would also like to ask whether there have been contacts between the Left and the employers in relation to the conditions for possible government intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141737	I have no knowledge of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141744	Okay, I'll ask you another question. It goes on to say that the director of KL, Kristian Wendelboe, has spoken in the media about the Danish model, namely that a struggle between the worker and the employer can push the Danish model beyond the edge, and he says that if it ends with a major conflict, all political energy at Christiansborg will go on to avoid getting into this situation again. Now the rapporteur has put forward some views on interfering in some negotiations by raising some relevant issues about the political infection of the negotiations that is already taking place, but what is the rapporteur's position on Kristian Wendelboe's way of interfering in the debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141829	I feel no need to comment on Kristian Wendelboe's comments and the statements he has been out with. I do not think I should do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141838	Thank you to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen for today's work and welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412141853	I would like to start by saying that I think this is actually an exciting debate. In general, I think the debate on the Danish model, and how much the Folketing should interfere politically, is interesting, but I do not think it is appropriate at this stage. The Danish model in the labour market is based on allowing the parties to negotiate, and politicians for a short time get out of it completely, and this has proved extremely difficult for a number of political parties who are very busy with what I see as wanting to score cheap points in the middle of a very crucial debate. In the Liberal Alliance, and I think most people in here know that, we believe that the contractual system is good as it is. Over time it has delivered relatively good, stable conditions on the Danish labour market. Many have also pointed out that the public procurement system cannot be completely freed from politics and that some of the mechanisms operating in the private labour market have been put out of effect in public negotiations. It is difficult to deny that the public procurement system is not perfect, but I find it very difficult to see that the system should be improved by more political interference. We believe that we must be very careful about interfering unnecessarily and we believe that it is interfering when we put a question debate in the middle of decisive negotiations. We will not contribute to that, we will allow the parties to negotiate. We support the proposal for adoption made by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142039	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142043	Well, it was, I must say, very liberating to hear a politician from one of the governing parties say that it is true that the contractual system cannot be freed from politics, especially the public procurement system. That is absolutely correct, and that is also why we say: well then let us agree that we are not interfering either. It can be said that the ultimate political interference is precisely that at some point, after a conflict has run with strikes and lockouts, politicians come up with legislative action, and here we are just concerned that such legislative action does not take place on the basis of employers. When we put so much emphasis on it, it's because it was the last time. This was a serious abuse, and Mrs Laura Lindahl was also a member of a party that voted against the intervention together with the Enhedslisten. That is why we are very concerned not to intervene in favour of one side, and that is the threat that is hanging over the negotiators of the other side right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142205	I am a little unsure what the question was in concrete terms. That is absolutely right, but I just think that the difference between the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten is that we actually believe that the parties should be allowed to negotiate freely, regardless of who it is in favour of. It is absolutely true that in 2013 one scenario was seen playing out. But because of that history, we do not think the right thing now is to go in politically and interfere with what should not be done in the future. We believe that the parties should be allowed to negotiate without political interference, even if we have had some not so pretty situations historically.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142242	Well, strictly speaking, we don't disagree about that. Mrs Laura Lindahl says that the parties must be allowed to negotiate without political interference. Yes, and that is what the whole question here is aimed at. That is what our proposal for adoption is all about, precisely to indicate that we are not interfering politically and that we are not interfering at all with the ultimate means, the big club, which is a legislative measure. Then the negotiations are just free, and then the conflicts in the form of strikes and lockouts can run in good and proper accordance with the Danish model, of which a legislative action is not part.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142322	That is just not what I hear Enhedslisten say, and that is not what I read in the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption either. There you mean at least you write it, as I read it, that you are not interested in a legislative act on employers' terms. You don't write that you're not interested in any legislative action, period. You write and you mean, and you say, that you are not interested in a legislative action on employers' terms, and that is the whole difference between the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten. We are not interested in legislative action on employers' or that is the whole difference. It is quite fair to have a different view, a view that one should interfere and shield some from a possible scenario, but we actually take the Danish model seriously and believe that neither one should be in favour of one or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142413	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142417	Thank you. I would like to admit that I find it deeply touching to hear the Liberal Alliance rapporteur argue for free negotiation in the collective bargaining process. Because it is precisely important that we do not send out all sorts of confusing signals. I have therefore also wondered whether it is not a political signal when, for example, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. stands in the debate and says that 70 DKK. This would be a reasonable wage level on the Danish labour market, or the financial rapporteur would say that it is quite unreasonable to demand wage increases and that tax cuts should instead be demanded for everyone. Is that not also a political interference in collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142505	Now we're talking about the timing of this. And as I said at the outset, we would like to discuss this. We would like to discuss why there is a great deal of concern for wage increases rather than tax reductions if they are the same on the bottom line. The money comes from the same place, and on the bottom line it's the same. It would just apply to some more people. We would like to discuss this, but right now, when the negotiations are going on, we do not really want to do so. But I would like to take this debate at all sorts of other times. But right now, I don't really want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142539	I still think it is an interesting debate whether tax relief is preferable to wage increases. Well, I guess we can agree that if you have a bag of money to pay to the public employees who have to be distributed to all Danes, then all Danes would get significantly less than what the public employees should have. And how would the salary compare with the private sector? So does the rapporteur not think that it makes very good sense for there to be public pay negotiations and that wages should be negotiated separately and that the Liberal Alliance should take care of that with tax cuts elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142619	This is a debate I would like to take. But right now, when there are some concrete, decisive negotiations, I just do not think this is the time, and I do not understand who is insisting that we should take that debate now and here. The Liberal Alliance would very much like to take the debate on tax reductions. I do not think anyone is in any doubt about that, but right now I think that this question debate is out of place, and I think that one should show the Danish model the respect and just postpone it. We may be talking in 14 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142650	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142654	If there are discussions within the government and if there have been discussions within the government about the possible conditions for any government intervention, would Mrs Laura Lindahl see this as an untimely interference in the Danish model?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142711	I cannot stand here wondering whether there have been discussions within the government. I wouldn't know anything about it if there had been, so I just won't comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142720	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142723	However, if there have been or are discussions within the government about the conditions for a possible government intervention at this stage, would it be Mrs Lindahl's view that this would be an untimely interference in collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142738	I mean, the position of the Liberal Alliance is basically that we should not interfere. We voted against in 2013 because we believe that this should be resolved by the parties themselves. That is our basic position and that is what I can say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142752	Thank you very much, Mrs Lindahl, for today's work and we will now turn to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412142811	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for raising this debate. Nor should there be any doubt that I think this is a difficult debate. I believe that most of the members of the Folketing know that if I had not been involved in setting up the alternative and had not been elected to the Folketing, I was the one who had sat down there in the Conciliation Institution, because I was the head of what was called CFU, that is, the Central Negotiation Committee, which is those who represent all government employees. And that's why I had the pleasure of sitting there in OK13 when the legal action around the teachers took place. Does this mean that we cannot have a debate here in Parliament at this time? I think we can. Because that concerns all of us, of course, what is going to happen in the whole area of public contract. It is extremely important for our Danish welfare society that a solution is found. It is extremely important for our public servants that a solution be found. It is extremely important for our municipalities that a solution is found. It is extremely important for our regions that a solution be found, and it is also very, very important for the state institutions that a solution be found. If I have to draw some strings to what I have experienced in my many years as a negotiator, where I am among other things. had the pleasure of sitting before three different finance ministers: a Bjarne Corydon, a Claus Hjort Frederiksen and a Lars Løkke Rasmussen • Bjarne Corydon I had the pleasure of sitting across the street twice and I would say that there has been a development in the public negotiating system over the years. There is. There is a much more politicising approach and much tighter governance by the Ministry of Finance. Well, as it was in the old days, when I started, there was an arm's length principle, I'd call it. There we had a staff board which had a very, very large space to negotiate with. There isn't today. There we have a finance minister or an innovation minister who is very, very close to us, and this clearly also influences the KL. And it is a new development, or it is not a new development, but it is a development that has taken place over the recent rounds of agreements. So it's new. What is also new to me, and that is what I asked the rapporteur on the Left, is that we are dealing with a group of public servants who are standing shoulder to shoulder completely across sectors of state, region and municipality. You can only guess why they do. From my point of view, I have no doubt that they are doing so because they feel extremely pressured and they feel extremely pressured because of political agreements, and that is also what legitimises me to stand here and have an opinion on what is going on. They feel extremely pressured because over many years we have cut back not only the last government but also the previous government. And it has been done in the way that the salami method has happened, as I call it: one slice has been cut at a time, both in the state institutions and in the municipalities and regions, so that they are slowly, but surely, given less resources. We have also pushed down bureaucracy on the public employees, which means that they are asked to process documents, how to do yours, dut and thatt. I think we all agree that it is very good to document what works. But it is not very interesting to document the process of how we get to what works. And we all agree on that here in the Danish Parliament, that is to say that all of it fills everything, far too much. I don't hear any parties backing it up. I fully agree that it is a super-hard exercise and that there is no quick fix or whatever it is called, that is, a quick solution to what it takes to abolish bureaucracy. We know that. A number of governments have tried to do so. Nevertheless, this is an extremely important agenda which we really need to address. But that's also what makes the public employees under pressure. There are studies that they spend insanely much time documenting something that they themselves consider irrelevant. Yes, and now the time has passed, but on behalf of the Alternative, I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption: the Danish Parliament notes that the public collective bargaining takes place in the Conciliation Institution in accordance with the Danish model. The Danish Parliament notes that it is absolutely essential for our public welfare that all employees in the public sector have good pay and working conditions that support the tasks to be carried out. For decades, the public sector has been subject to very strict control in terms of cuts, increased bureaucracy and lack of confidence. This has now led to a risk of collapse in collective bargaining. The Folketing wants a negotiated solution to signal recognition of the value of public work for our welfare society. If this fails, savings from a lockout in the public sector must be applied to public welfare. • V 49). I would also like to say, in addition to this, that I am very pleased with the opinion of the majority, where, as is also stated in our proposal, any lockout should be used for public welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143423	Thank you. This is now part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143431	I would just like to thank you for, in particular, the concluding remark that we also recognise the broad proposal for adoption that lies in it. Now I am well aware that the alternative then has its own proposal for adoption, but has the alternative been given the idea of how to adopt the broad majority proposal when it is put to the vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143507	We have not considered it yet, but I can reply to the rapporteur as to what I am going to recommend to my group. I guess I can figure out that there will be no majority in favour of the alternative proposal. The reason I needed to make that proposal is to signal what I think is moving among the public employees. I would like to propose to my group that we support the majority amendment for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143527	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143530	It is quite fair that it cannot be clarified until there has been a discussion of it in the group, so I think it is quite all right to give that answer. I just want to acknowledge and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143551	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143552	Then thanks were paid. Thank you very much to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143559	Thank you. There are many of the considerations that Mrs Josephine Fock has made, which could in fact also be mine. There is no doubt that the pace in the public sector has risen. There is too much bureaucracy, there is too much stress and unnecessary and it is also an agenda that interests many parties in the Folketing. If I do not go into that agenda any more now, it is because today's question has mainly been raised in relation to the current collective bargaining, and there is the position of the Radical Left, in line with that of many other parties, that we of course sincerely hope that there will be a conciliation. One of the prerequisites for this conciliation is, of course, that we do not interfere too much in it, and that is why I would like to say that we are co-sponsors of the text that a broad majority is behind. It should not be a secret that the Radical Left's contribution to that text is the proposal to add the last line, namely that if it were to come to a lockout situation, the savings in wage costs for the state would have to be used for welfare. We are pleased that that sentence has been made so that it is now a guarantee and not just a statement of intent on the part of the government, and I can say that it is also something that radical urban roots work in the municipal area around the country, and that is quite fair. But let us hope that it does not come to that, and let us hope that we can get the conciliation that the public employees have earned and reward their enormous efforts that the Danish citizens have earned, which use the Danish welfare benefits every day, and of course also the public employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143749	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143753	Now Mr. Martin Lidegaard to Mrs Josephine Fock's rapporteur's speech, which I also thought was good and had many wise observations. However, a key point in Mrs Josephine Fock's rapporteur's speech was, of course, the subject of the increasing politicisation of collective bargaining in the public sector. The analysis put forward by the rapporteur for the alternative is one which Mr. Martin Lidegaard agrees? And if sir... Martin Lidegaard does not agree, sir. Martin Lidegaard then explained where Mr. Martin Lidegaard had to disagree with that analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143832	I do not think it is a secret that the political leader in the Radical Left, Morten Østergaard, has been out to say that the process one had in 2013, when he looks back at it, he might have thought that it had been different and that it is therefore a profoundly radical hope that we will not get into a situation where there will be no conciliation. So if that's what was in mr. Rune Lund's question, I can say that I share that view when looking back at the course of events, and in that sense I agree with Mrs Josephine Fock's analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143909	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143911	But the point was, in fact, that in particular the Ministry of Finance is interfering very directly with the fact that collective bargaining becomes a goal of political and economic objectives of the Danish Parliament's parties and government, i.e. with the Ministry of Finance and the Modernisation Board in the lead. And so there is a political framework, a policy-oriented framework for the negotiations as such. That's the point. And in this regard, I would like to ask Mr. Martin Lidegaard: If you are a party that supports the way it is doing, is it not hypocritical to say that you are not interfering in collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143951	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412143953	It has always been, if I may say so, public institutions and employers who have conducted the negotiations, and not the Folketing, or the government directly. In this sense, there is nothing new about the current negotiations in relation to the past. In parallel with this, there has been a discussion about the influence of the Ministry of Finance in Danish politics in general and the economic paradigms and calculation models that are there, and there is my view that I have also said many times as the Financial Rapporteur that in some areas power has become too centralised.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144029	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144033	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Martin Lidegaard acknowledges that in the public debate there is in fact a mix of hats, if I may say so, since politicians are employers and are in the negotiations. I would like to say there and that is a little in line with what Mr. Rune Lund says that it cannot help but lead to politicisation of the negotiations. That is why I cannot quite understand why it is possible to reach a conclusion which then states that the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption here is political interference. After all, the proposal says that there is basically an imbalance in the negotiations, in that politicians are sitting with the ultimate weapon, and we are then trying to dismantle that weapon. I do not understand how one can get to be a political interference. I guess that's actually the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144139	If we look at the Danish labour market history, we have to say that there have been interventions if we look back over the past 100 years. It has never been something that has been desired or sought. But that has been in the utmost consequence. I think I have the view that, where the negotiations are at the moment, any proposal for adoption which deals with the course of action that may come after leaving the conciliation institution with or without a result is a form of intervention. I think everyone but Enhedslisten agrees with this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144213	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144220	Thank you. In spite of the last comment, I would like to congratulate the Radical Left for at least having, after some internal debate, said away from the very massive and unproportional lockout that was adopted by the National Association of Municipalities and the Danish Regions. I think that is a good thing. I also believe that the self-criticism exercised by the Radicals should be acknowledged in relation to the role played by teachers in 2013. That's why I think it's a little weird, too. Martin Lidegaard also says about the history of interventions over time that it has never been desirable. Yes, it was. That's what happened in 2013. There was a reform which was financed in advance by a certain result of collective bargaining. The Radical Left contributed to this. When Enhedslisten makes this proposal and yes, it is easy to say that it is controversial that we go in and say that we will say in advance that we will not intervene in favour of the employers. After all, it is only on the basis of the history that played out at the time and for which the Radicals have assumed their share of responsibility. That is to say to the workers who are standing out there: it will not happen again. You can stand firm, you can negotiate, you can calmly conflict, because there won't be a repeat of what happened in 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144333	But then Mr. Pelle Dragsted almost given the answer himself, for it is a party's statement. Although we have had some thoughts about the course that has taken place historically and that we have been part of ourselves, namely part of achieving political recognition and becoming wiser, this is something quite different from going in and interfering in an existing, current, ongoing debate in our optics. That is why we distinguish, and that is why we cannot support Enhedslisten in what we see as a party contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144406	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144408	The problem is the reality that right now is out among the employees, at least when I'm out talking to them, because they think it's a deal, that the reason why there's such a massive lockout is that you have to have an excuse for a quick intervention by the government. So what the rapporteur calls a party contribution, I see as an attempt to actually establish a straight playing board, a playing board in which neither party has the advantage of knowing or relying on government action that will be to their advantage. So that's what Enhedslisten wants, not to make a party post.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144448	So let me make it absolutely crystal clear: we do not want to deal at all with an intervention, either one that is not going to come or one that is going to come. So the fact that we do not want to support the Enhedslisten's proposal is neither a yes nor a no to intervention, because we do not want to take a position on that issue. I am afraid that the Enhedslisten is unfortunately doing a little disservice to employees here because it creates an uncertainty which there is really no reason to create. I cannot say it any clearer than this, but we do not want to take a position on this issue at this stage while the negotiations are going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144521	The last question I have is, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144528	Thank you. Now the Radicals have considered the situation in 2013, when I remember that there was also a loud debate this afternoon in Parliament. One has also been • what should one call it self-critical and said that it might not be so appropriate a course. But what is the lesson of the fact that it was not so appropriate if you do not want to take a position on an intervention, because intervention is not a theoretical option alone? So, it has been very, very sluggish negotiations and a situation could easily arise where there is a conflict. The government has played hard to lockout a very, very large number of employees. What is the lesson of the situation in 2013 for the Radicals when they say that it was not so clever what they did there? What wasn't smart, and what is it you have to do differently next time?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144620	So, the lesson, I think, is that which I think many people have drawn out, both when I hear both parties sitting in the negotiating room here, while we are talking, and in fact the vast majority of political parties, namely that everything must be done to ensure that we do not get back into the same situation, i.e. that there is no conciliation. Everyone has an interest in this, both employees, employers and the citizens of Denmark. That's the simple lesson. More pressure cannot really be put on it, because if you go further, as Mr. Christian Juhl (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that under no circumstances will there ever be any intervention, so we have also taken a position which would make the conciliation negotiations a bit of an illusion. So it is a difficult balancing act that we are all out in. Our assessment is that at this stage it is premature to take the debate on intervention or not intervention. We sincerely hope that this discussion will not be relevant at all. But if it becomes relevant, then we have to take it at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144722	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144725	Well, they say that in 2013 there was a problem. We had a government that unilaterally made a lockout there was not even a strike by the opposite party which unilaterally took legal action against the conflict and which unilaterally provoked a rather violent debate in society, which has given way to this conflict. Is it not ahistory, then, not to draw any real conclusions from it, for example? That we should not take government action on employers' terms? That would be perfectly logical. Otherwise, I cannot understand what the historical cause is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144805	Actually, I don't think so. I think that when you send out the very strong signal that you do not want to get into the situation that you have to discuss an intervention, you have created a motivation on both sides that is absolutely necessary. If, on the other hand, we want to decide in advance what should happen in a given negotiating situation, then I think that we are taking the air out of the negotiations, if I may say so, and pointing them out. And there's no need for that right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144832	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. There are no more brief comments, and we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412144838	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for asking this question. It's the first time in a lot of years that I don't sit on FOA's board of directors and help push the buttons there, and you can get some sort of withdrawal. So it is quite good to have the opportunity to discuss agreement 2018 here in the Assembly Hall. We must take great care of the Danish model. It has been said by almost all sides here in the Folketing, and it also makes very good sense. It is and remains in the Danish model that we can ensure that employees themselves have an influence on which elements are important in relation to pay and working conditions for the many public employees who keep Denmark going every day. A good employer is, of course, a responsible employer, but a good employer also appreciates his employees and recognises that they are important to society. In the ten-year crisis, employees have shown great responsibility with wage restraint. We in the SF believe that this should be acknowledged. We do not want to interfere in the demands made by employees, although I might well think of a few extra good proposals. But in SF we therefore recognise the demands of the public employees and we respect the Danish model. And we're holding our breath while the parties are doing their best to find a settlement that everyone can live with, I guess. In that part of the process you don't play with open cards. Of course, the parties' pain limits keep the parties to themselves. On the other hand, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate SF's proposal to abolish the Modernisation Authority. The Modernisation Authority has demonstrated to such an extent that it is difficult to control the hats when they signal that the public employees' agreement should contribute to financing the government's desire for cheap cars and tax cuts, etc. For it has understandably not made the negotiations easier for the Modernisation Authority to reward bosses with big bonuses to come up with proposals for a cheap agreement that can finance government tax cuts, and it is well to note at a time when we have a good and solid room for manoeuvre. They certainly wouldn't have put up with that in the factories. I understand that employees feel stepped on and, of course, this is also a bad starting point for a debate. Nor has it made the negotiations easier for the Modernisation Authority, together with the municipalities and regions, to announce a lock-out which more or less shuts down the entire public sector in order to empty the strikes boxes as quickly as possible. I acknowledge that there is a tool in the Modernization Authority's toolbox. But I understand that this creates insecurity and that the public employees are insecure about what the government might now do. So I'm rooting for the negotiations, I'm really rooting for the negotiations. Trust and recognition for public servants is a prerequisite for good welfare. That is why I cross both my fingers and my toes that a good solution must be found, with which everyone is satisfied. So, while I note that the violent lock-out warning is a signal, I have also taken note of the fact that citizens are increasingly supporting employees and, frankly, it is also an important signal to the government, to which I hope the government is also paying attention. But having said that, I think that Denmark now needs a red employer. On the other hand, on Tuesday, the Prime Minister sent a signal to the public employees that savings in wages due to a possible conflict should be reused for welfare. Now I just hope that the troops in the government are in control. The SF supports the proposal for adoption which the Socialist rapporteur read out. However, I would also like to note that the SF can in fact also support the proposal for adoption which Enhedslisten has ended up presenting. It's much better than the first version. So, frankly, I also hope that the Enhedslisten will be prepared to vote in favour of the proposal for adoption, for which there may be a majority when we have finished the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145246	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145251	Thank you. First of all, I would like to commend the rapporteur both for a good speech with many important points, which were cut out very clearly, and of course also for the fact that the SF, I think, has acted in a very sensible way both in relation to their people in the municipalities, who have voted against the lockout or knockout, as it is rightly called, but also, of course, because of the reflections that have been about the role that the SF itself played in the agreement in 2013, which, regardless of how we turn and turn it, is the backdrop when we are where we are today. One cannot understand the situation we are in right now without understanding what was going on in 2013. That is also why Enhedslisten has called for this inquiry debate. It is, of course, about the fact that there is a huge fear among employees that what we want to see is a repetition. That is why I do not really understand why the SF does not want to join the adoption of the Enhedslisten, which basically simply says that there will not be a repeat of this, so that if there is an intervention, which no one hopes, it will not be unilaterally for the benefit of employers, just like last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145359	In principle, we can also vote in favour of both proposals for adoption, especially after the latest version prepared by Enhedslisten. In fact, I tried to say that in my rapporteur's speech. I understand the insecurity, and I am also aware that some people are thinking of comparisons compared to 2013. I can understand that. But I also think that if it were to get there it is not certain yet that we had to end up with a government intervention, because one might actually risk that, fortunately there are also some other traditions to draw on. It could be a settlement sketch that could be the basis. Now I do not know what is going on in the conciliation institution, but I think we will hear something about what the organisations think about a possible conciliation sketch if it gets there. So I would like to reserve the right to take a position on that time. But I also think that government intervention certainly does not have to look like 2013. It is not prohibited to add a little extra.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145503	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145505	That is precisely why we have chosen that wording. We are not saying that there can be no government action, even though we are generally sceptical about government action funny enough like the Liberal Alliance. But we have kept it very sharp that it should not be a government intervention in favour of employers. Because the problem is that the public negotiators can simply say no to the conciliation sketch. There will not be a mediation sketch if one of the parties says 'no' quite clearly. And if you have an expectation that you have a government and a majority in the House in your back, then there is a really good trick in saying no to a mediation sketch. And that's why, unfortunately, all of this is connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145545	I also believe that, right now, public servants are leaning on a very, very strong support of the people, and it is important for me to stress here from the platform that any government intervention we may take seriously will take stock of. And fortunately, there are many other good models that you can lean on. I mention 1998, which is a good example of the fact that something extra was actually done in order to make it slide down, because the alternative was some empty strikes, because it is also if you just let a conflict run and run. So sometimes the organisations would want to see a government intervention that they should not have taken their own position on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145626	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next and last rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145643	The Conservative People's Party notes that negotiations are under way between the social partners. We are pleased about this and we hope that they will find a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145700	Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145704	I would like to hear what the Conservatives think we have learned from the 2013 collective action, where there was a unilateral intervention by the government and where there was also a unilateral lockout by the same government. As far as I remember, you supported both initiatives at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145726	I shall not be able to say what we have learned from it. What, sir? Christian Juhl and others have learned from it, you have to answer for yourself. I've learned a lot about collective bargaining by following it. I am not going to make any further statements about how we will stand if we get into the unsolvable situation of government intervention. I do not think I will make any statements in favour of it going more one way than the other way in relation to the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145802	Sir. Christian Juhl?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145807	I just wanted to see if I had an answer before I asked again. I did not get an answer, and I therefore ask one more question: is there nothing to learn from the 2013 conflict, which has, after all, been much debated, and which has actually caused so much swell that they have actually affected these collective bargaining so seriously that the whole employee side has felt obliged to make a joint agreement to stand together to resolve the problems that arose in 2013? This should surely give rise to thoughts by the Conservatives, who were active participants in that conflict by making legislative action.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145847	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145849	I don't really have anything to say about it. I think that we should not make statements which can be interpreted as if we now believe that there should be an intervention sooner or later, or about what the intervention should be like. I really find it difficult to answer that question without approaching reports in that direction. That's why I have nothing to say about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145911	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it is the Minister of Public Innovation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412145919	Thank you, President. It is now not because I have so much more to add to the debate than what I explained in my initial reply, but I am pleased to note that there is broad support in the Folketing across the parties for a proposal for adoption, in which the Folketing states that they support the Danish model, and calls for collective bargaining in the public sector to continue between the parties in accordance with the principles of the Danish model, and finally to save wage costs for the state by means of a conflict reserved for well-being, as the Prime Minister also announced in the Question Time on Tuesday. This should, in my view, be a proposal for adoption by all the parties in the Folketing, but it should not be so. As I mentioned in my introductory answer and as everyone in this Chamber knows, we are currently negotiating as parties in the Conciliation Institution, where we are bound by professional secrecy in relation to the content of the negotiations under way under the Conciliation Act. Therefore, for the same reason, I will refrain from commenting on it, although it could certainly be tempting to refute a number of the comments that have been made in the debate and that are quite biased. Instead, I will sign for the majority of the Danish Parliament which, with today's proposal for adoption, states that the Danish Parliament must allow the parties to do the job, and that the Danish model does not allow the Folketing to interfere in the regulation of pay and working conditions, even now that the negotiations have been transferred to the Conciliation Institution. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that, as the state's chief representative in the ongoing negotiations in the state sector, I am obviously working hard to ensure that we, as parties, can find a solution and get an agreement in which both parties can see themselves. However, it is also clear that, in a debate, both parties must move in order to achieve a joint outcome and thus an agreement so that we do not end up in a conflict situation. We, as parties, have a very great responsibility to ensure this together. I believe that all the many skilled civil servants deserve that. I also think that Denmark and the Danes deserve to find solutions around the negotiating table. At least we in the state will do our utmost to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150220	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150224	I would like to hear the Minister's comment on, or perhaps I should say confirmation of the observations made by Mrs Josephine Fock in her speech, that today there is a much, much tighter governance by the Ministry of Finance through the Modernisation Board, and that of course this means that there is a much, much stronger political interference in the negotiations which the Modernisation Board is conducting and one can say that the Modernisation Board and the Ministry of Finance are ultimately governed by politicians, including the Minister himself, and that there is therefore a mix of political interests and, what is to say, real employers' interests; that it is difficult today to separate them and that the negotiations that are going on are therefore influenced by what a current government would like to see as its economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150336	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150337	Thank you for that and perhaps at first with a glimpse in your eye. After all, I myself have spent 10 years in the Danish Parliament, and I do not remember any time when there has been no perception in the Danish Parliament that there is strict control in the Ministry of Finance. Well, I don't remember there having been any time when they said, "Oh, my God, how they've gotten loose over there in the Ministry of Finance, walking around and so forth, giving out with loose hands." This situation has hardly taken place at any time, at least not in my time in the Folketing. On the other hand, I can totally reject the idea that we should have some kind of reform in the drawer, which is dependent on us reaching some sort of agreement result. I can totally reject that. We have gone to the collective bargaining process with the ambition to land an economically responsible agreement. Is it tight? No, I think it's responsible. This also means that public employees must, of course, increase in salaries and, for example, when I do so. Looking at some of the opinion polls that are currently in place, about whether you support the public employees and whether you think they should be paid more, I would say that I will answer yes to that if Gallup calls.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150445	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150447	No, but now the Modernisation Authority was actually invented, if I may say so, by the former Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon and indeed with the clear political purpose, which is also expressed, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, in the results plans and the annual report of the Modernisation Authority of 2017, which clearly states that the Modernisation Board will make public pay and working time an integral part of the expenditure policy. It cannot really be said more clearly that there is thus a clear, what should be said, political objective that is involved in the negotiations we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150528	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150529	No, I can totally reject the idea that there should be some reform plan over there in my ministry, in the Ministry of Finance, which will depend on us landing a certain result in the collective bargaining process. I would like to remove that myth, even if there are some who are trying to shoot us various turbulent motives in the shoes. As far as the Modernisation Board is concerned, I do not think my speaking time is enough to get it done, but I have to say that in many ways the Modernisation Board has become a pre-gelknabe for everything that does not work in the public sector. Name a problem, and the answer to that problem will in the first sentence be the Modernization Authority. Is that particularly nuanced? No.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150608	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150609	I would like to know whether the Minister is, of course, under the responsibility of the Minister, can answer whether there have been contacts between the government and the government's parliamentary basis or other parties in the Folketing prior to the collective negotiations on the discussion of a possible government intervention and the content of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150632	I have not discussed any legislative action with any parties in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150639	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150640	Thank you for that very clear answer. Will the Minister then be willing, after this conflict has ended, if we end up in a course like what we have seen in the past, to be more accommodating to publish the material, documents and other things, so that we can get a clear insight into what has been really difficult with OK13 • compared to what the process has been prior to this collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150707-2	I must start by confessing that I am not the owner of a script that said we should be here where we are now in the collective bargaining process. We haven't written one of these in advance. We did not want us to find ourselves in a situation where the trade unions left the negotiating table, subsequently announced a massive and crippling strike, that we would then have to give notice of lock-out so as to force us as parties back to the negotiating table in an attempt to reach an agreement and that we have now been negotiating in the Conciliation Body for several weeks. There is no such script over there with me, and I hope that the professional organisations do not hold a script in which it should say that we should end up in the situation we are in now, which is serious and difficult for all parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150804	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150806	That sounds fantastic. Now, at local level, I have conducted a series of negotiations through my slightly younger life. I have never gone to negotiations without drawing on a piece of paper what I would do in different situations. We have then, when we have been really solemn, called a script. Of course, there is one such one with any dealer who will achieve a result. If you want to work blindly, you have no one, and I don't think the Ministry or anyone else could stand to have that. It's kind of a thing. Another thing is that government intervention is a foreign element in the Danish negotiating model or method. That is why we are discussing it today. There I think that the experience of 2013, which is the reason for these difficult negotiations this time, should give rise to reflection. I would therefore like to ask the minister responsible if she does not think that it could be a clear signal for both sides to say that we are not doing any government intervention. We have heard other liberals in the Folketing say it very clearly: we are not interfering in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412150917	Well, you'll never be in any doubt that sir. Christian Juhl will always be wiser than the current government and its ministers, understood in the sense that Mr. Christian Juhl then wanted a script or a piece of paper for what would happen in all the negotiations that Mr. Christian Juhl has been a participant in. I have not had a piece of paper in advance stating that now we would end up here where we stand today. We had a hope, a faith, a desire to land an agreement at the negotiating table. That is why I was also sorry that the trade unions left the negotiating table in the Ministry of Finance before we had actually addressed one of the very important issues for a great many employees in the public sector, namely what the wage increase will be in the coming years. We never managed to do so until the negotiations were abandoned and subsequent strikes were announced.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151018	Sir. Christian Juhl wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151022	Thank you. But if you do not ask in advance what can happen in this debate and use history to learn from it, it is, of course, that you get very wrong sometimes, and the old government did so before the present government. And both governments have given a good opportunity to intervene and give good advice along the way, I would say. Whether it's playing smarter or not, I can't say. But was this not a very problematic way of interfering in 2013, as the then government did, and which Left supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151102	Sir. Christian Juhl must always remember to take the rose when it comes. Maybe it didn't come back. I have always had the motto of myself that it is always wise to learn from the past to act wisely in the future. I think that is such a very good and wise starting point in principle in many respects in life. Do I feel a backdrop from 2013? Yes, I can certainly confirm that I do. There are very many wounds that are not all since the situation in 2013 and that affect the current course. I think I have also said this very honestly in public when I have been asked about it. I don't think that's a secret.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151151	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151153	Thank you. On one of the first questions asked, the Minister replied something like the fact that the last many, many years she had been sitting in the Folketing had always been told that the Ministry of Finance was running the negotiations or running it, or what the Minister said it was. After all, I myself have been sitting there and experiencing the developments that have taken place where the Ministry of Finance has managed it, and I would very strongly argue that there has been increased control by the Ministry of Finance. One example is clearly the way we have calculated things in the agreements. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Asks what it costs to give maternity leave to fathers, then you usually and traditionally look at how many fathers there are in the municipal, regional and state areas respectively, and how many fathers you think are going on maternity leave, and then you calculate it, and then you say it costs, punches on the bag, 0.01%. of the frame. But that is not the answer that the Ministry of Finance is giving here or now I am not going to interfere in these negotiations. However, there will also be a debate by the Ministry of Finance on the effect it has on the supply of work and everything else. We've never heard that before. Let me hurry up and say that I am not talking about these negotiations. I'm talking about something in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151317	Yeah, but then the minister would like to ask for a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151323	Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151324	But the question is whether it is not true that the Ministry of Finance is interfering more with the government's interest in what things cost. Instead of leaving it up to the parties to the negotiations, the Ministry of Finance comes up and says: Now you must remember to take these requirements into account; it also does something in relation to the supply of work, etc. It's not something you've usually had in the collective agreement system before. I hope that was a little clearer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151356	When I said earlier, with a little glimpse in my eye, to a questioner that I could not remember, at least not in my time in the Folketing, that there were some people who did not think that there was a strict regime from the Ministry of Finance, it is because I simply do not remember it. That view has always been there. There has not been a time when it has been said that they have now become loose over there in the Ministry of Finance and are beginning to make exciting things to the right and left. I do not think the Ministry of Finance will ever get rid of that reputation, nor am I sure that it is interested in it, in the sense that the Ministry of Finance has a clear interest in ensuring that public expenditure is managed. It is, of course, in the description of the task for a Ministry of Finance. Is it equal to now, in relation to the current collective bargaining negotiations, that we are not interested in achieving a good agreement in which all parties can see themselves? No, of course not. Moreover, I shall refrain from commenting on any calculations that may be on the table at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151500	We have one last question for the Minister in this round, and that is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151504	Thank you. I understand the insecurity, and that is the plan that I can then hear the Minister say does not exist, but rather following on from the question put by the former rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, I would like to ask: if you enter into a profit-and-loss agreement with the bosses who are actually going to be in charge of the debate, who are talking about bringing a conciliation bill to an agreement as cheap as possible, and tell the boss that you can earn DKK 130,000. What, then, does the Minister think about the confidence of employees that anything can be shaken in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151546	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151548	I am not aware of the content of a Director's performance contract. I have been able to read things in the paper, but I do not know the content of the director of the state IT, the administration of the state or the performance contracts of others. I would remind you that something has been said about the need to produce an economically responsible result. That is what this year says in that performance contract. An economically responsible result is also the entry with which I have entered into the collective bargaining process. In addition, I would like to call on the Members of the Danish Parliament to refrain from asking staff-related questions in relation to my ministry, which I do not think is an appropriate matter to stand here and discuss from the parliamentary platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151639	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151641	Nevertheless, performance pay agreements are an expression of what the result is that we want to achieve. As I have read to it, it is said that a result is achieved with a narrow financial framework, and that is a little different, I think. Does the Minister then say that the Minister has not been aware of that agreement at all before the Minister himself was responsible for organising the collective bargaining negotiations, as in none of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151712	I can reveal so much that it is not the case that it is politicians and ministers who negotiate profit and loss contracts with directors in Denmark. I do not think there are examples of this anywhere in the state, and I would not think that would be appropriate if it were for me as a minister to negotiate it with a director of the board. I don't have my director's profit and loss contract in front of me either. I would remind you that this year's performance contract has a responsible financial framework, a result within a responsible financial framework. I'd be happy to be the target of that. It is also with this approach and approach that the government has agreed to collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151754	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the questioners to conclude the debate. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412151804	Allow me to use my opportunity to round off the debate. I would just like to comment on some of the things that have developed in the course of the debate. However, I would also like to reiterate that the purpose of the question debate here was that we wanted the public employees and their organisations to know that the negotiations are actually fair and that the so-called Danish model actually works here we are negotiating and, if we cannot agree, there will be collusion, and if it cannot lead to any agreement, it is open to conflict and therefore the public employees should not see that the script has been written, as happened in 2013. There I would like to acknowledge for the Minister's very clear statement that there are no agreements whatsoever, there is no contact between the parties in the Folketing about any future intervention, and then we should just hope that it does not exist in the head of the minister either. But that is a clear and fair answer. Because one can easily get the suspicion that the very comprehensive lock-out warning has been appropriate to complicate the negotiations and, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, to pave the way for regular intervention. The purpose of the Enhedslisten's debate here and with our proposal for adoption has, of course, been to avoid political interference by actually disassembling the political weapon that an intervention is and which one party in the negotiations is holding, namely the employers, in that you are both an employer and a politician, and that is a weapon that the other party, namely the employees, the employees' organisations, does not have. It is, of course, the huge difference and the unequal balance in the model here when politicians resort to intervention in conflicts. Then, in the course of the debate, there have been some comments that the question debate here has been out of place. I also believe that there was one Member who said that it was inappropriate and that it was, of course, an act of interference. However, the debate here and our proposal for adoption are precisely about creating a framework for fair negotiation, because public servants do not currently see the negotiations as being equal and fair, as it now stands. And if you're in doubt, you could, for example. have participated on Tuesday in the demonstration over here at Thorvaldsen's Square. And they don't, because we're one of them. a Modernisation Board has quoted several rapporteurs today from the various reports, objectives and framework plans of the Modernisation Board, etc. And, of course, they bring them when they negotiate. Then, of course, what happened in 2013 is also very deep with many public employees, not least, of course, with our primary school teachers, who were directly affected. But it is clearly something that concerns the public employees that they should not be subjected to such a round again. It is therefore a pity that the Folketing will not create this fair framework, as we think it is, because the negotiations under way, we think, are an attempt to justify that it should be interference. It's the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152223	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hyllested from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152227	Thank you. I would actually like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate. I think it has been. I would have liked it to have been at the second time, when perhaps we could discuss more freely: how do we really think as a Parliament we should be an employer in the long run? But that is not why I took the floor. I actually just have a short question for the Enhedslisten. These are fine texts for adoption, and they are very close to each other, and it would also be possible to imagine that the Enhedslisten would vote in favour of the proposal for adoption, for which there would be a majority vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152305	I will not be standing here in advance and rejecting that, I will discuss it with my group. I would say that in the proposal for adoption tabled by a majority, there is nothing wrong with that, but in our opinion it is also rather toothless, because it is simply stated that it is the way it is. And the purpose of the debate here, and of our proposals for adoption, has been, as I said just now, to dismantle the weapon that employers are holding in these negotiations. And that is not part of the majority's proposal for adoption. But we will try to consider that there will probably be different views on it in the Enhedslisten, I say hello and say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152355	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152357	I accept that, and I also said in my own rapporteur's speech that we would have voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption as it stands today. I just think that there is a very good common signal in all the texts adopted, namely that the Prime Minister has promised that conflict money will be used for welfare, if you get into the situation that a conflict arises and society saves money on it, in other words that the money should then be reused for welfare. And I would like a united Parliament to vote in favour of that signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152431	Yeah, and it's a really good signal to send, definitely. Of course, the state has to do this here, but the municipalities and regions should follow suit. They shouldn't save money on implementing this conflict, especially given that the lock-out warning sent by public employers is so violent and so extensive. So it is a really good signal to send, but it just does not affect the whole question of intervention and that we have employers taken away the weapon they have there. This does not affect the majority's proposals for adoption, and that is what we need to turn around with ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152512	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments shall take place on Tuesday 17 April 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152528	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152551	Thank you. The proposal here deals with the possibility for city councils and municipal councils to have a subject which they then choose to refer to as a referendum. Then the people can take a position, and then it can become a reality in that municipality. As you know, that possibility already exists today. The difference is that today it will be indicative, so when you ask the citizens, that referendum is indicative. The proposal here then allows it to be a binding referendum. We in the Socialist Group think that is quite logical. In other words, if the majority of the city council, the citizens' representation, the municipal council choose to ask the citizens, it is often logical that, if possible, we should also, of course, comply with the results of the referendum held by the citizens. Now there are not many referendums in our municipalities. After all, in Denmark we have the representative democracy of a form of government which the Danes strongly support, there is a large turnout, also in municipal elections, and a great deal of confidence in local self-government among the citizens of Denmark. So there are not so many referendums in our municipalities. The question is how many times we have had the problem that a city council has chosen to ask citizens what they thought of a matter, and the citizens have then given an answer which has then been ignored, as long as it has not been binding. I've been trying to research in detail on this, and I haven't found a single example of that having been the case. Nevertheless, when we say that it may be good to do it as an opportunity, it is in order to eliminate any doubts, in view of the fact that, of course, if you choose to ask the citizens in a single case, where you think it will be the best, you will follow what the citizens say and make it binding. It is the purely legal thing that is the change here. This is a small technical change which, in practice, does not change things, but which could probably be of little help in the democratic debate, given that one has the assurance that when there is a referendum in the municipalities, the city councils will, of course, also observe the outcome and follow the outcome of that referendum. Then there are a number of exceptions that I might have to say, which are fenced in, and that is a wise thing, what it is that is not to be sent to referenda. It can, for example, be done. be decisions for individual legal persons, etc. In those words, we in the Social Democrats can support this proposal, which I therefore regard as a tiny change, which will, however, make it a little clearer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152941	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412152944	After all, the draft law is based on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, B 102, on a referendum in general. The rapporteur was quite sceptical about the resolution and its content at that time. In the meantime, the Social Democratic Party has helped to conclude the agreement which is the basis for this draft law on binding municipal referendums, and the rapporteur will then vote in favour of it at the third reading. What has meant that the Social Democrats have gone from sceptical to now being full-hearted supporters of binding municipal referendums in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153027	This is because it is a directly different legislative proposal that we have here, in relation to the proposal made by the Danish People's Party a year ago. These are directly different and, as I explained in my rapporteur's speech, I have not been able to find a single example of a city council sending a question to a referendum and then ignoring the outcome of the referendum. Does the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party have such examples?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153100	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153101	The resolution was divided into three, and the first part was about binding municipal referendums. Now the Social Democrats' rapporteur stands and, of course, I am happy about that and say that you are in favour of it. That is why the natural question is: what has led the Socialists to support it now? I'm just really curious. There must have been some arguments along the way that have led to a move from scepticalism to a supporter. It is not to hang out with the rapporteur, it is of sincere interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153137	The answer probably lies in the question put by the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, namely when the rapporteur says that this was one third of the content of the proposal that was discussed a year ago in which we were opposed. What then is the difference between this proposal and this proposal is that the two thirds have gone out of the proposal. What remains here is the part that concerns the fact that if a majority chooses to send questions to a referendum, then it can also be a binding referendum. And that part of it is excellent, because we have no examples that the result of the people's vote is not followed after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153221	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153240	Thank you, President. Half of all Danes have experienced politicians, and the number of parties is falling steadily. So there is good reason to do something, and the answer to this is more direct democracy, more referendums, more involvement of citizens. The background to this bill is my stay in Switzerland, 3 months in 2016 at the universities of Lausanne and Bern, where I even had the pleasure of seeing a referendum at the University of Lausanne. This stay then led to motion for a resolution B 102 from 2016 and it consisted of three parts, namely that municipal councils can issue binding referendums • it joined the government then. The second was that citizens can, by means of petition, demand referendums on decisions by the municipal council or by means of a collection of signatures, require a subject to be put to the vote. The resolution was rejected by all the other parties. The first part supported the government and I would like to thank the Minister for that and that is why we are now discussing it in the Chamber. There is opposition in Denmark to referendums in the representative popular government, and that is a pity, because there are otherwise good arguments for referendums. That is my conclusion from the studies in Switzerland. I would like to share those arguments with the House. Firstly, voters are always thought into political decisions when there is a possibility of referendums. Secondly, referendums are an economic gain for the electorate. The more direct democracy, the lower public spending is often. Growth and the macro-economy are also better off where there are many referendums, and that must surely please civil politicians. Referendums also involve the inclusion of groupings. They feel like they're being heard. Fourthly, referendums counteract extreme movements and parties; that is what is called a valve function. Referendums train voters. Research shows that. Three out of four citizens, for example. Switzerland is good or very good in matters. Fifthly, there is the focus on parties rather than on people. Sixthly, there is less mud throwing. And then, seventhly, the voters are responsible. This presupposes that politicians have confidence in the electorate, and here it is sometimes difficult in Denmark. It hasn't been long since that Mr. Mogens Lykketoft and Mr. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen said that the voters were too stupid to vote on things. In the Danish People's Party we have it just the other way around. We have confidence in the electorate. This bill, of course, imposes a large number of restrictions on binding municipal referendums, and they are all sensible. The votes must comply with the law. They are to be held largely as local elections. Then there must be a majority in the municipal council that decides. The result of the vote must only apply during the parliamentary term, and we cannot vote on things that go beyond the authority of the municipality. Finally, we cannot vote on economics, wages and budgets etc. However, it could be considered whether citizens should be allowed to vote on municipal budgets. This is done in a large number of cantons in Switzerland with great success. I have also noticed that the hearing from the Department of Political Science in Aarhus wants to give citizens the right to demand votes, and thus the Institute in Aarhus agrees with the Danish People's Party. This must be the next step, that is to say, we will allow citizens to get on the agenda and vote on it by means of a petition. I am aware that this bill will not result in many referendums. It's a small step on the way. However, I would like to say that countries and states where there are many referendums are rich and well-functioning countries. That is, for example, the case. Switzerland, it's Bavaria, it's California and it's Schleswig-Holstein. The latter has had Swiss conditions at local level since 1990 with great success. We could be inspired by this in the years to come. The Danish People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal and will continue its efforts to convince the old foot-to-foot parties in the Danish Parliament to introduce the possibility for citizens to request a vote through the petition of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153738	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153741	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The proposal here is not, after all, about what was discussed a year ago, but about the real content of this bill, which is about making municipal referendums binding. How many examples are there of municipal referendums being held, and then the city council has chosen not to follow the outcome?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153815	I have no examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153819	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153821	Oh, yeah. So we have no examples of this happening? As I said, I think it is quite excellent. After all, we support the proposal because it is excellent to put it in place here. But does this also mean that what the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party is saying here is that there is not a single example in recent Danish history that it had done someone because it is very good to have the proportions in place? One thing is what they do in Switzerland. Now it is Denmark that we are in, and in Denmark there is not a single example that it would have made a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153900	No, I've answered that. What is good about this bill is that we now have some guidelines on how to comply with them. In the past there have not been very many guidelines, it has not been included in the law, and it is not part of the constitution either. Now we have a bill, now the municipalities know exactly what to do, and then a municipal majority can issue a referendum to get the support of the citizens and at the same time say to the citizens: when you vote on this, it is binding, and then we have to follow it. It's a small step on the way. We see it as a small form of municipal autonomy, and I hope, of course, that it will be used far more than it does today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153943	I do not see that there are any more short remarks. That is why we thank the rapporteur and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412153953	Thank you for that, President. The two previous rapporteurs have well described the content of the draft law, so I will not dwell on that much. That is also true, as has been said in the form of a question from Mr Beyer de Ryke. Alex Ahrendtsen, that when we stand here today, it is on the basis of a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. At that time, the Left was in favour of changing indicative referendums into binding referendums, with scepticism over the element that a number of citizens could ask for a referendum. On the other hand, the intentions behind the motion for a resolution were very positive. The intention was to have a more vibrant local democracy and a greater commitment on the part of the citizens, also in recognition of the fact that the municipal reform led to a slightly larger municipalities and thus also to a feeling that there was a greater distance from people to the elected people. I hope that with this bill, which we can do little by saying that it is now just indicative, which we are making binding, but which we can also do more by saying that we are now getting the opportunity to have a referendum, we can create this commitment among the citizens to have more issues for a referendum. However, we must also follow it when it comes to the fact that this should not be a pseudo-democracy, in other words that the subjects we are asking about do not have a relevance for the citizens, and that the subjects that are cut off from the possibility of taking them to a referendum cannot be put to the vote, and that these are the issues that the citizens are concerned about, because they are within the limits of the budgetary constraints which mean that it cannot come to a referendum as it is now. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154217	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154220	Thank you. After all, the Left is a bourgeois party which is in favour of financial responsibility. We know from research that where there are many referendums and where we can vote on budgets, there is a great deal of responsibility, spending is kept down, there is better growth. When this knowledge is presented to the rapporteur of the bourgeois observation, could it be that it would be a good idea to have even more referendums at local level in Denmark and thus involve citizens also in economic issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154252	The Left supports the draft law's comments on the limitations of the financial responsibility of the municipal councils, which should not be covered by anything that can be taken into a referendum. There are examples that referenda on economic matters have had difficulty in creating the political decisions that have been necessary. You mentioned a number of foreign experiences. In this foreign experience there are also examples of the fact that a necessary infrastructure and growth-creating investment could not be achieved because citizens who were away from the investment from home would not implement it. The rapporteur also mentioned Schleswig-Holstein as an example of a place of referendums with a lot of growth. This is not the best example in an area where there is great growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154346	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154347	No, I said that they were rich areas and not that there was growth. The experience is from among other things. Switzerland, where you can see it. But if we now know that there are good experiences of accountability through referendums, would it not be a good idea to involve citizens also in economic contexts?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154405	No, because budgeting in a municipality is based on a holistic approach to budgets. Referendums with those elements will be a yes/no compared to some who do not have a relationship with the subject, but then will experience that it is the individual cases. That is why I think it is important that, not least when you talk about budgeting in municipalities, you have the whole thing in your approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154440	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154443	Thank you to the rapporteur for this, I think, nuanced speech with love for democracy, which I think we all share here, but also with the nuances that I believe should be in relation to the question: whether referendums are just the solution to the challenges that certainly exist in our democracy. Let me take a concrete example. A political decision that we are so benefiting from in today's Denmark is the Great Belt Bridge. If the Great Belt Bridge had been in a referendum when it was decided here in the Parliamentary Chamber, there would have been a thundering majority against, at least if you looked at the polls, Gallup and elsewhere, from that time, in the late 1980s, that is a huge majority against. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154536	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154543	Then we cleared it up. Thank you, sir. Carl Holst and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154557	I welcome Enhedslisten's municipal rapporteur and express our position on the bill here. We regard this as a very small step forward in terms of citizen involvement and increased democracy in the municipalities, which the government and a majority of parties present here. The only improvement is that the majority of the municipal council will have the opportunity to launch a binding referendum on a decision taken by the majority. You have to ask yourself whether it will ever be used. What majority in a municipal council should want the public to overrule a decision they have made themselves? It must therefore be said that this is a somewhat disappointing result of the discussion we had in spring 2017 in this Chamber on the motion for a resolution B 102 by the Danish People's Party. We supported this on the part of the Enhedslisten, because there was something innovative here. This not only provided for the possibility for a municipal council to issue a binding referendum, but also for citizens to be able to demand a referendum on a matter which the municipal council had decided on if they could collect an appropriate number of signatures and citizens would have the opportunity to request a referendum on a specific municipal case which would not have been dealt with by the municipal council if they could gather an appropriate number of signatures. That is what was in that motion for a resolution, and we saw some good prospects in that. Unfortunately, it was rejected, among other things. with the argument that it would undermine representative democracy if citizens were given the opportunity to instruct the municipal council to deal with certain proposals. I think that is a bad argument. On the contrary, the possibility of such citizens' initiatives will encourage dialogue between citizens and members of the municipal council. That is also why we in the Danish Parliament have given the citizens the opportunity to instruct us in the Folketing to deal with a particular proposal, as we have done with the law on citizens' initiatives. It is therefore somewhat disappointing that the Danish People's Party has abandoned these earlier excellent demands in favour of a proposal which is close to meaningless. When we looked at the hearings, we were persuaded by the Danish Industry hearing that we still have to vote in favour. Danish Industry is rather appalled at the possibility that citizens will be able to use such a bill to put pressure on a majority in a municipal council by sending, for example, a decision to close school for a referendum. Should it appear during the committee procedure that there is an opportunity to improve this bill towards what the Danish People's Party put forward last year, then we are very open to supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154900	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412154901	That was an excellent speech with good analyses and good points. However, I would just like to point out that the Danish People's Party has certainly not abandoned the remaining part of the resolution, namely on petitioning, and that the citizens can then put things on the agenda themselves. No, we've chosen to say yes to this because it's a small step on the way. Is it not true that, in the past, there was no legislation and guidelines on indicative referendums on the part of the state? It was an opportunity they had. Now we have a legal complex that sets out very clearly the framework for referendums and that they are binding. One can then hope that there are brave municipal councils around which, by big decisions, choose to involve citizens and at the same time say to them: this is binding when we ask you. So is it not true that there has, after all, been a slight improvement in this area through current legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155006	Yes, and it is also this very small improvement that means that we are going to vote in favour of the draft law, but at the same time we are also saying that we are fully open to having better thoughts through a committee procedure, so we would very much like something that goes beyond this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155025	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155026	I would like to thank you for your support. I am not sure that we can move forward in committee, but perhaps the Danish Parliament will be more mature in a year or two; it has been shown in the past that the Danish People's Party has been ahead of its time and that the other parties have then come along. We are happy to cooperate with the Enhedslisten on several referenda. After all, we also voted in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal to reopen the possibility of referenda in school districts. Well, it was just a comment, not a question as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155100	It is a process, so it may be that the Folketing, for example. After seeing a number of the citizens' initiatives put to the vote in the Parliamentary Assembly, they could change their minds. I very much hope that we will have some citizens' proposals which are not just something that the Danish Parliament has said no to a short time ago, but that there will be some citizens' initiatives which are issues which have been overlooked by politicians, and that we will perhaps be able to see that we can create a municipal model which will also open up this type of initiative, so that it should also be introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155135	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155144	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that binding municipal referendums will help to strengthen local democracy. It will involve citizens in democratic processes and increase interest and involvement in the local community. In addition, I also think that there is something quite fundamental about involving citizens as much as possible in decisions that affect their daily lives. We must, of course, stick to representative democracy, and this will also be the foundation stone in the municipalities in the future, but local authorities will now have the opportunity to ask citizens much more, and now they are also committed to listening. It is a good tool for municipalities to get decisions from the City Hall to the citizens. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155235	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155250	Thank you. In the alternative, we would like to have more referendums and we would like to involve the citizens much, much more in our democracy. That is also why the alternative has gathered a majority in this Chamber to enable citizens to collect 50,000 signatures for a case, and then the Folketing must be forced to take it up and deal with it. This has, of course, resulted in a build-up of proposals and matters coming from the people that we are going to take a position on in this Chamber. That is why, of course, we are also happy to vote in favour of making binding referendums on proposals decided by the City Council. I think sir... Alex Ahrendtsen, who is the author of the motion here, is right in saying that the essence of this proposal is enough to clarify some guidelines on binding municipal referendums, and I wonder if it will not make it possible for more people to do so. It's always nice if there's a good structure. So it's clear that the alternative backs this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155359	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155403	Thank you. I have also heard that the alternative cheered when this proposal was put forward on social media. I simply have to understand it correctly because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I have not been able to find any examples of a city council choosing to send a subject to a referendum and then choose to ignore the outcome. This proposal makes those results binding. But is it really true that there are no examples? Does the rapporteur have any examples at all to give one example of the fact that a city council has chosen to initiate a referendum and then has not complied with the outcome?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155443	I think that was a very relevant comment. No, I don't have such examples either. I don't think we're gonna get it either. But the reason why we are voting in favour is mainly this structure, that is to say, that we get clearer guidelines. I think that the more structure we have, the easier it is to go to, the more dare to get involved in a municipal referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155505	Sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155508	I think it is relevant, also because I think that we owe it to our councillors from all over Denmark and from all parties who are making a huge effort for their local area, their city and their region, to treat them properly and not to talk about this as if they have previously ignored referendums, and now they must be bound to be binding votes. They have actually listened and complied with the people, to the extent that they have used the tool, and I think that is just an important thing, because otherwise this will be the opposite of talking democracy out, it will actually talk democracy and those who are volunteers in democracy, the shop stewards in democracy down.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155548	Yes, but we have also assessed whether this is really a sham proposal, because it does not get us anywhere at all. So we have discussed this, and we do not think it is because it brings us a tiny bit along a path that we think is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155603	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155609	The Radical Left is not in favour of such a democracy, with 51 per cent. In a vote they trump 49 per cent. We want a democracy in which people discuss together what is to happen and where, through the conversation and the debate, a majority might be created which is even greater than just 51 per cent. We do not believe that democracy is simply about going down and voting and saying yes or no to a proposal. It is also about being heard, about debating and perhaps getting the other party to bow down a little and perhaps find some compromises so that as many as possible can agree. This is not guaranteed by means of referendums. This is guaranteed by having the democracy we have today, when the people vote representatives in this Parliament or in the city council or in a regional council, and then, on behalf of their constituents, they have to make a decision. They are then paid to sit and spend time talking to citizens, talking to experts and talking to the employees it's about if it's the care of the elderly or something else. We think this is the best form of democracy because it gives most of the opportunities for having the conversation and having a debate that may move a lot, and not just a vote where a small majority trumps a large minority. Nowadays it is the case that a municipal council can issue an indicative referendum, and then it is the municipal council that is responsible for whether or not to follow it. And as Mr. Magnus Heunicke has mentioned several times, it always happens I cannot give an example of another • that you follow what a majority of the population has voted in favour of. However, it is ultimately the municipal council and the members of the municipal council who are responsible for it. We think it is good as it is, which is why we see no reason to introduce a possibility of binding referendums. We believe that the council members must be responsible for the decisions they make, and then citizen involvement takes place continuously when decisions are made, but of course also when voting to the city council or parliament. That is why we do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155823	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155827	The Radical Left is a party in favour of information, debate and discussion, and then I would like to tell the rapporteur of the Radical Left that research shows that referendums create debates, create conversations and involve citizens in what the rapporteur calls for. Not only that, but they also make them smarter... everything the rapporteur wants. The good thing is that it even happens before the decision is made. This means that citizens make a decision on an informed basis. With this information, could the rapporteur not consider whether it would be a good idea to vote in favour when referendums promote precisely what the rapporteur has just called for in his speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412155921	We have decided to vote against, and we will not change that. However, no, I do not believe that a referendum promotes what I was talking about before, namely that citizens enter into dialogue with each other. Because if there's a suggestion to spend x number of crowns on something, that's what you're voting on. One cannot in a dialogue with another ask whether it could be y number of crowns rather than if one could agree on it. So this is not going to be a debate where you can bow to each other and find a large majority. That may be, 80%. could agree on something other than what is being voted on, which is why I think it is very good to have representative democracy, where there are some representatives, and then they have the responsibility to involve and engage the citizens on an ongoing basis. We have that here in the Folketing too, that is why people can come in and that some can sit in here and join, or they can come into committee and present some views. So, of course, citizens must be involved, but I think that is better done in the ongoing process and not just by going down.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160018	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160020	So the Radical does not want to talk to the citizens. Another question: in this Chamber we often have votes which lead to 90-89 decisions, and often it is on the question of yes or no. Yes or no to war participation, for example. 90-89 is not a large majority, but a small majority, and this seems to the rapporteur to be a major problem when it comes to referendums, where there may be a narrow majority, but there may also be a large majority. Why is it so much finer when it happens in the Assembly Hall?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160100	It's not. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen should try to get to know the Radical Left a little better, although it may well be that it keeps a little hard with it. We are, of course, a party that wants to make a broad majority in this House, and precisely in relation to the example that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen mentions, with war participation, we were very opposed to the decision to make such a fateful decision for a country and, of course, also for the soldiers, in other words, that a narrow majority chose to do so back in the 00s in connection with the Iraq war. We were simply against the fact that a broad majority would not be found. So we are in favour of that in here, too. Of course, we are also in favour of involving citizens, but we do not believe that citizens have necessarily been involved, because they have been down to vote, because a party or a politician does not really need to have talked to the citizens, but that can be ensured by proper work here in the Folketing or in a city council by inviting the citizens in, or by getting out of Christiansborg to talk to the citizens. We are certainly in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160149	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. The next is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160158	Thank you. Perhaps I can be brief, because there have already been a number of rapporteurs on the platform and speak in favour of the proposal. Of course, the SF supports the proposal because we have been in favour of the possibility of binding local referendums every day, in fact before the circle behind this proposal came up. Yes, in fact, we would have liked to have gone further and worked on binding local referendums on the basis of citizens' initiative. But leave it at that, because the idea of binding referendums on the basis of a vote in the city council is obvious and right, because it can help both to expand local democracy and to engage citizens. Finally, I would also like to congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution for having a number of reservations about referendums, among others. in relation to budgetary matters and personal matters such as terms and conditions of employment. I might have dreamt that the derogations would have been extended with a number of provisions relating to the settlement of refugees, the location of social institutions etc., but let that be the case, because the decision must first be taken by elected municipal politicians in municipal councils, so that local politicians, as in the past, have to take a responsible decision before a proposal can be submitted to a referendum. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160315	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160323	Thank you. The draft law, as several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, aims to allow municipalities to issue binding referendums, and of course the Conservative People's Party can support that. The use of referendums in municipalities has so far only been possible for guidance, and we think that it makes very good sense to strengthen local democracy by allowing municipal councils to make binding referendums in future. Referendums can be very sensible when it comes to involving the citizens of the municipalities in certain decisions, as well as decisions where referendums are not particularly appropriate. That is why the draft law also contains some restrictions on the areas for referendums and, of course, we can also support those boundaries. Basically, we hope and expect that this new tool will help the municipalities to complement the existing ways of involving citizens in decision-making processes, thereby also helping to increase interest in local policy, so that more people are involved in matters that affect local development. This could lead to a broader strengthening of the local political agenda and, I hope, to more involvement, including those that are mobilised in the respective referendums. Increased use of referendums is not a miracle cure for local democracy, nor can it stand alone. It is important that citizens' meetings and hearings and other local political events continue to be held, focusing on local issues, because local popular engagement and citizen involvement are extremely important for our local democracy and therefore also for the democratic tradition in Denmark. With these comments, I should just like to say that, of course, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160520	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160526	I would like to thank you for the relatively broad support for the legislative proposal and for the good and constructive debate that we have had today. I would specifically like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate earlier, which has meant that we have come here, where we have made a political agreement, and a bill will come through with such a broad majority in the Folketing. As you know, there has been a common political ambition behind the agreement to strengthen and extend democracy in our municipalities. The bill gives all 98 municipalities the opportunity to print and hold binding referendums. I personally believe that municipal referendums will be a good opportunity for local politicians and citizens to come even closer together, and that there are some issues that, if they are put to a referendum, can be debated more thoroughly than they do. I also think it is important for the trust between politicians and citizens that it is the case that if you have first adopted something in a referendum, then it also binds afterwards. In addition, it could be that the situation in municipal councils could arise, that there are some things that make a party that can be decisive for the majority seriously doubt whether a proposal is a good idea, and then it may be that you want to put something out to the citizens and actually take the dialogue and get it settled out there instead. Thank you for your support and thank you for the debate. I am, of course, available for questions, both orally and in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160721	Thank you for your speech to the Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160725	I would like to commend the Minister for the process and for the support. It has been a pleasure with such a responsive minister. The reason I'm just asking you questions is that Mr. Magnus Heunicke mentioned the Great Belt Bridge. It's always the one you grab. We do not really know what it would have ended up with, because there was no enlightening debate and campaign and discussion ahead of the resolution. One could also have chosen to take an example such as the IC4 trains. After all, it was the Social Democrats and the Radicals who decided that we should buy those trains. Perhaps this disastrous decision could have been avoided if the citizens were to have been aware of it and an enlightening debate about the advantages and disadvantages of choosing that particular model could have been held. Does the Minister not agree that the debate is being created by referenda and that the conversation with the citizens before decisions are very important, even when it comes to major decisions, for example. a municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160828	The debate is a good one, and in many cases referenda start debates which we in this country are almost European champions in relation to referenda on European issues. Then I myself, as a former member of the Radical Left, cannot help but amuse myself that it is always the Great Belt Bridge that is being set up as an example. Because in my old party one always used the example that one was against the Storebælt Bridge and that one was against the Øresund Bridge, but when it came to Fehmarn, one agreed with oneself that one should not make the same mistake three times. That is why I think it is good to see that the Social Democrats use the example of saying: 'Well, then, would it not have come through?' However, I would just like to say that, if you look at the polls in many EU votes, things do not always go as Gallup preaches, and that is why we do not know whether the people would have minded and not listened to the Radicals and voted through the Great Belt Bridge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160923	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160926	Thank you, that was very funny. Now I have a question for the future. Could it be imagined that the Minister would work a little further on the principle of the referendum and possibly convene a group of members of parliament who are interested in this, and then you could go on a little study trip to Schleswig-Holstein, which is in many ways similar to Denmark, to look at how they do in local democracy with referendums? Could the Minister be interested in setting up such a small working group?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412160957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161000	Now, of course, I am sorry in the light of the first remark made by Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen with praise for both the process and the content of this bill, then perhaps in the second round to disappoint and say that I do not have any more immediate plans to extend the use of referenda beyond what lies in this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161021	The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161029	It is true that all parties and also the people's minds, which I do not think we should overestimate, have an influence on the public debate. I do not think, after all, that we should overestimate the influence of the Radical Left in the 1980s in relation to the resistance of the Danes to the Great Belt Bridge at that time. In fact, I think that is a good example. For the second example mentioned by the Danish People's Party about rail purchases, which are after an EU offer, would I like a Liberal Alliance minister to get such a slightly more fundamental answer: Does the Minister estimate that it is within the realistic or generally just practical options to decide questions about an EU offer for billions of dollars, a purchase with private companies, by then sending it to a referendum? Is this something that we consider a realistic option?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161122	After all, the desirable and practical possibility of realism provides a certain framework for answering both yes and no to the question. I don't know if that would be an obvious subject. As I said before, I do not immediately have any proposals to extend the use of referenda. However, I would say in relation to the first, sir. Magnus Heunicke said that I do not actually believe that the influence of the Radical Left can be overestimated in the 1980s.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161150	Yes, I have an additional question. And I think that we are leaving the Radical Left a little bit in the 1980s, how exciting the role they played at the time might otherwise have been, and focusing on the content here, because I think it is also important for the Minister here and clearly for the many people who have been elected to the city councils around Denmark and taking the responsibility that it is, for our local democracy, that the debate here does not turn into a mistrust from the Folketing to whether they are listening to the population at all. Therefore, my question is just, as we have been around several times and as it might be good to have a clear answer to: are there examples of a city council having sent a question to a referendum and then ignored the outcome?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161235	I am not aware of such cases. I would also just like to emphasise that I do not see this discussion as expressing distrust of our members of the municipal council. On the contrary, I believe that there is a great deal of support for our municipal councillors. That is why I am also pleased that I have a dialogue at the moment, among other things. with the Social Democrats and the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties on the awkward question of whether there are greater threats and other things against our local elected representatives and how we should deal with it. This is a subject to which we will return in a very short space of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161310	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Danish People's Party, in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161320	Thank you, President. It wasn't because I wanted to prolong the debate, but it's because of Mr. Magnus Heunicke's comment on mistrust of the members of the municipal council. I would just like to make it clear that referendums are not an expression of distrust of representative democracy. It is a complement to the elected representatives. You can say he doesn't really listen, I'm trying to talk to him; sir. Magnus Heunicke, I have taken the floor because I speak directly to the rapporteur that a referendum is a tool, a complement to representative democracy, not a mistrust of their work. On the contrary, they can make representative democracy more capable of making their decisions, and this is a misunderstanding which I often hear from people who do not like referendums so much or perhaps do not have much knowledge of what referendums really can do. So I would like to put an end to the misunderstanding that there is distrust by holding more referendums. On the contrary, citizens and voters gain more confidence in their politicians when politicians dare to involve citizens, for example. through referendums. Let me just give you a number. In a country like Switzerland, 77 percent are. by the electorate, the citizens, satisfied with their national government. These are figures that you would like to see in other countries with representative democracy. So no, referendums actually give more confidence in representative democracy as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161532	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161538	The rapporteur is incredibly concerned that we should do what we do in Switzerland and not do what we do in Denmark; the Danish democratic tradition must be abandoned and taken a Swiss model instead. The rapporteur again mentions Switzerland. I am more concerned about strengthening Danish democracy according to Danish tradition and sticking to the way we in Denmark have done it with our local democracy than what they do in Switzerland. The question of confidence or not in our municipal politicians must simply have been wrongly heard by the rapporteur, because the question is whether it is necessary to introduce an opportunity to make binding votes, since a new instrument of binding votes must then mean that there are plenty of examples of referendums in our municipalities where they have not complied with it, and that is what we have obtained today, namely that there are zero examples of it, and that is where confidence comes in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161650	Denmark should not do as Switzerland or Bavaria or California or Schleswig-Holstein, but we should be inspired by the experience gained in other countries, just as the Danish government and democracy are inspired by others. The Constitution is a reflection of the Belgian constitution, and I assume that the Socialists are also inspired by experiences from abroad. Then I just want to remind Mr. Knox. Magnus Heunicke says that the rapporteur has said that we are voting in favour of the proposal, but it almost sounds as if we have regretted it. After all, the draft law provides excellent guidelines and frameworks for binding municipal referendums, guidelines that are not available today. It is a little difficult to make a speech when the rapporteur would rather talk to his colleague next door, so I do not know if the rapporteur has heard what I have said, but that must be decided by the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161759	The fact is that I think it is relevant when we discuss this matter that we in the Danish Parliament do so in a way that shows respect for the citizens of Denmark who undertake to be part of local democracy. That is why it is very important for us that the amendment of the law that is now taking place, which we support, and it may be fine, so it is not driven by the fact that there are plenty of examples that we in our town council have started a vote where people have not been complied with. In fact, there is not a single example, and that is an important point. That may seem or may not be the case, but I think that is an important point, because it is something about how we talk about the people who take part in our democracy, including at local level, and they are entitled to something more respect from in here, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161855	Respect is also that one listens to the rapporteur when a question is put to him. Then I would say that it is of course an independent point that there have been no examples of the failure to follow an indicative vote. On the other hand, I can say that this bill shows respect for municipal autonomy and politicians there, because they are now being given an extra tool to involve citizens and even to give them responsibility for the decisions that are being taken. So distrust? No, on the contrary, there is plenty of confidence through this proposal, although it is a small step on the way to more referendums in Denmark for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161939	The next question is Mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412161943	Thank you. The rapporteur has rightly referred a few times to countries abroad where they have a greater degree of use of referendums. Does the rapporteur recognise the advantages of the fact that in all three cases mentioned by the rapporteur there are examples of the opposite? In some cantons in Switzerland, women did not have the right to vote until 1972; there were major construction projects that could not be carried out in Florida because those who benefited from it were the ones who lived there and they constituted a minority; and in Schleswig-Holstein there are major challenges to making the economy coherent, because referendums create a climate that makes it impossible to make the necessary reforms, among other things. in the school sector. My question is just some kind of reflection on the nuances.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162044	That is absolutely right. The people also make decisions that it later regrets, just as politicians make decisions that they later regret. Even if there are more people involved in it, they may also be wrong. I have also said this in many contexts. There are plenty of examples of countries where local votes are held, where citizens only say 'no' and 10 years later say 'yes' because they are either mature for the decision or have become wiser. So, yes, that is absolutely right, and that goes with it. But what is crucial is that they are involved and thereby held responsible and that they feel heard. That is what matters. So as far as Schleswig-Holstein is concerned, it takes place at municipal and parish level. It does not take place at regional level. It's just that we agree on that part. I hope I have answered that question as honestly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162145	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162201	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad as rapporteur for Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162219	Thank you very much for that, President. Now I have to ask the former rapporteur to leave the Chamber if there is to be a debate. This is a proposal for government guaranteed loans for general housing. It was a proposal that originally came from the government in a different form, where you wanted to create a proper state bank. We are very pleased in the Social Democrats that this was not the case, because we are very pleased with the model that has been made here, and that is why we are also supporting the proposal, I would say as an introduction. What is an important prerequisite for us is that the draft law makes it clear that it will not lead to extra expenditure, either for the residents or for the Landsbydfonden. There are a number of comments from Finance Denmark which we in the Social Democratic Party believe have been well taken care of in the draft law, and we are sure that this solution, that is to say, state guarantees for loans, but that it is still a starting point for financial companies, is actually a very good solution, which will make it possible, as an investor, to obtain secure investments, that the general housing sector can be operated at a lower cost, even if it is not necessarily the general sector as such that reaps the benefits, and that we do not have to run a state bank as a country. So we think that is a really fine solution and a good example of the cooperative popular government, and we can fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162359	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162405	I have a proposal from the Social Democrats, which came at the end of last year, about the Social Democrats' proposal for cheaper housing and where cheaper loans for general housing, which benefit tenants, is one of the good proposals. It's so written when the government had a plan that it was 90%. of the loans to be converted into state loans. And it is so clear: in the social democracy we believe that cheaper loans for general housing should also benefit tenants through lower rents. Part of the proceeds from the restructuring of the general sector's housing loans must therefore be returned to the tenants where it is most beneficial. This could, for example, be in the form of lower rents in the most expensive general housing. I find this very interesting, and there you had an idea that you would spend 500 million. kr. to reduce rents in some of the most expensive homes. I would like to hear from the housing rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party why these plans, which are quite a few months old, have been abandoned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162512	Well, it must be a misunderstanding that we should have abandoned them. I can assure the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that these plans are in place. We believe that rents should be reduced in general housing, which is the most expensive and which is built after the year 2000. Whether the money that is given is allocated in a legislative proposal or whether it is allocated by the room for manoeuvre where it is being taken now makes no difference to those who are going to receive it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162543	That sounds good. Then there must be a basis for working on some amendments that could improve this. I have a feeling that it is the defence settlement that is causing the Social Democrats to change their attitude. Annex 5 to the defence settlement states that the defence reconciliation parties agree that they will vote in favour of the bill to amend the General Housing Act and that this must be the bill we have here and that the proceeds from the new financing model fall within the scope of fiscal discretion. But at the same time, I think it goes to extra fighter planes. Does the rapporteur have a different view of how that text should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162622	Yes, I can promise the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that this rapporteur has. Basically, there was neither before nor after the defence settlement a majority in the current Parliament to lead 500 million. kr. to the tenants of the most expensive general housing, but that is our policy, and that is what we want to do when there is a majority in favour of it. And whether the money actually lies in a bill like this, or whether it is in the room for manoeuvre, we really do not see the big difference. So it is true that, in the context of the defence settlement, they have been brought into the domain, and I also said this in my first reply to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162655	The next question is Mr. Roger Courage Matthiesen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162659	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I stand here with a lot of consultation answers and wonder whether the Social Democratic Party agrees with the way the government intends to dispose of the proceeds from the new model. If I have read the bill correctly, it must be understood that there is nothing that belongs to ordinary tenants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162732	Yes, this draft law brings the proceeds into the domain, and a political majority can then dispose of it. Our proposal is that some of the money should be spent on reducing rents in general housing built after the year 2000 and with the highest rents.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162748	Does the questioner have anything else to ask? No? Then I would like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur and pass on the floor to Mr Seligman. Per Nørhave as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412162759	Thank you. The main purpose of this bill is for mortgage banks to be able to offer loans with a 100% State guarantee. This is not only for new construction, but also for renovations in the publicly supported building. This will allow lower financing costs and, at the same time, create a more transparent financing model. This should further increase competition for lending. According to the calculations in the bill, it should be able to reduce the State's expenditure without changing the level and, in particular, not increasing the rent of residents, but keeping it at the same level. There is no change in the fact that the rent paid by residents will continue to be calculated as a proportion of the purchase price of the building, at least currently at 2.8%. for new construction. For many years, the State has financed and supported construction by using mortgage loans, and the interest rate here, like any other building, is lower than other financing methods. The mortgage interest rate has been low for many years, and if it goes as the bill suggests, mortgage loans with a 100% State guarantee will be even lower. There is a very small risk of this guarantee, but no matter how small it is, it exists and it is reasonable that the State should keep the profits from the new form of financing. With the low interest rates we are talking about at the moment, it may not sound like much, but after calculating the models that have been made, it should then be just over 1 billion. kr., and after all, it is also a kind of money. The risk of these loans is relatively small, as at the same time guarantees are provided by the municipalities concerned, and it is reasonable that the municipalities should still be required to provide this municipal guarantee, as it is the individual municipalities that decide and commit that the building or renovation of general housing can take place. The proposal is only about general housing and, therefore, it will still be possible for municipalities and regions to finance the construction and operation of general housing for the elderly by raising loans in municipal credit, as it has been up to now. Should it be possible for a housing association to be in financial difficulties, which would mean that the housing association could not be continued or could not be continued, there would still be a possibility of aid being provided through the so-called fifth scheme, which consists of a fifth contribution by the housing organization, a fifth contribution by the municipality concerned, a fifth contribution by the mortgage credit institution and a two-fifth grant by the Landsbygningsfonden. In the draft law, the state will save costs without harming the tenants' finances, and the Danish People's Party can therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163053	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163058	Thank you. I could understand that, sir. Per Nørhave, the rapporteur felt it was right for the state to receive the revenue saved here. I know that the rapporteur was at a listening meeting in Ringsted yesterday, and I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur there has heard that there is a need for renovation in the general sector, that the money they have through the Landsbygningsfond is in fact needed, and that you can also see that there are other things that could be financed. I think it would be very reasonable to make this loan change, that it would benefit the tenants as well. I understand that with the current negotiations on housing, it is a little difficult to find money, and then we have such a bill here with the restructuring of loans, where it is absolutely a significant amount, which one might well choose to give priority to lower rents and special wagerings, which one would like to give priority to. So I would like to know whether there are any things that the rapporteur has listened to in Ringsted which reinforce the fact that there is therefore a need for general housing to have some money to renovate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163211	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen is absolutely right. They are under pressure out there, and there is a need for renovations of many of the different cooperative associations we have around. But what they were worried about was not so much the proposal here or it was not at all the proposal here but it was in that sense that money had to be taken from the Landsbygningsfonden for renovation and demolition in the so-called ghetto areas. There is a small risk in this state-guaranteed loan, and then I think we must also be able to take the proceeds. It is not a revenue that comes in a year, but it is one that is stretched over a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163251	Well, I'm not surprised they really don't know what we're discussing here, and sometimes they only find out afterwards. However, I have noted that there are some consultation answers that say that they think it is fair that this benefits the tenants here. It is true that there is a very, very small risk of having the guarantee on these loans. I would like to hear from the rapporteur, if it is not true, that until now the mortgage credit institutions have not had significant losses on the loans they have granted to the general sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163321	Thank you. Again, I say that as little as the risk is, it is reasonable that the state should keep that revenue, precisely as a guarantee if something should happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163333	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163337	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Is it not true that the State is already levying guarantee commissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163346	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163348	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163350	Is it so fair to make the extra, you could also call it a special tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163356	Well, that's the proceeds of us putting some costs. So that doesn't change anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163405	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163421	Thank you, President. I think this bill is really, really fine because it combines the benefits of private lending for general housing based on the Danish mortgage system with the benefits of low government financing costs. At the same time, we then provide a hundred percent guarantee for loans for new construction and renovation of general housing. What is really important to me is that the Ministry informs us that the basic model of financing and support for general construction is continuing and that the housing payments of residents will not be affected by the proposal. This is something that means a lot to us in the Left. The model will make the financing of general housing cheaper and more transparent, while at the same time bringing about a significant improvement in the budget for the state, and this also means a significant improvement in the budget for the Danish population. Overall, we are dealing with a legislative proposal that provides a much-needed overhaul for the financing of general housing with loans granted on state-guaranteed bonds. So let me conclude by stressing that the Left, of course, supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163526	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we've come in the series of speeches to Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412163537	As a starting point, Enhedslisten is positive about converting the loans into government-guaranteed bonds for general housing, and we have also followed with interest the process that has been, where it started with some government loans • one hundred percent and then there was some trouble in the Left, which made them make a great compromise, where they went all the way down on the fact that it could only be 90 percent. in this new state bank. It has been exciting to follow, and I also think that this case shows that there have apparently been some mortgage institutions which have had good business lending to the general sector for decades. Because there has been no significant risk. The interest rates imposed on general housing have not been reasonable. Then there are a number of issues that I wonder about at all have not been mentioned in the draft law, and one of them is the Basel Committee's plans in relation to the general sector, where there have been some reports that we could be exposed to the need for stricter capital requirements... There are many who want to talk to the minister, perhaps he should listen. We need a little quiet down here so the rapporteurs don't get distracted. It is now I who ensure order, and that is now there). Thank you. What I was saying in this way is that there is one aspect that is not mentioned in the draft law at all, and that is whether these loan changes solve the problems in relation to what the Basel Committee has previously pointed out, so that there might be a need for a stronger capital requirement in relation to the loans granted to the general sector. In the past, I have been able to listen to the fact that if it was a state loan, then it solved the problem just like it did. Now we have these government bonds, and it is possible that it will solve the problem as well. It would actually be nice if it had been in the legislative proposal that here we have something that benefits the general sector. I really would have liked to have unfolded that at a later stage, i.e. whether this is a good solution to that problem. Then there is this saved amount, which some in the government immediately want to pass over, and you can see that in the Finance Act that was signed. The idea is evidently that the money saved here in relation to the general sector must be reduced to fiscal room for manoeuvre, and then I think it must be something that is then spent on the defence settlement, since it is written in a text on the defence settlement. That's where we in Enhedslisten have a problem with this bill. Because we think it would be very important to use the whole or part of the amount to reduce rents in the general sector or to solve other problems. If you look at the cash flows in the general sector, you can see that, in this way, some expenditure is currently being paid by residents, where you can ask whether it is not a state task instead. If you look at the agreement we have at the moment on the resources of the Landsbygningfund, you can see that there are approx. 400 million kr. Annually, which has recently gone to better accessibility, and there are approx. 465 million kr. for an annual housing social effort, with about half of the amount going to rent reductions. Wasn't it really fair for the state to pay those amounts instead? If we are to have more housing in the general sector that is suitable for disabled people, is it not society that should pay that bill? So I actually think it would be reasonable for some of this saved amount to go to some of the things the Landsby Fund is currently paying. You could also choose to reduce the rent, and that would be 2 500-3,000 kroner. per rent, if you hand it out to everyone. I think that what the Social Democratic Party has done in the past is interesting, that is to say that it would take the housing that had been built since 2000 and lower the rent, especially there, and that could be approx. Eight thousand a year. After all, it is a significant amount, and it would have the derived effects, that there would also be some housing insurance costs for the municipalities that were reduced. So I think there are many good reasons to look at whether there should be any other way of dealing with this saved amount and that we could come up with some amendments on which we could have a majority vote, some proposals that could, in general terms, strengthen the general sector, instead of doing this only because the state can then get some finance in the Treasury. I think it would be reasonable for it to benefit the tenants to a greater extent than what has been proposed in the proposal. At the same time, we recognise that it is in this way an advantage for the sector to obtain State-guaranteed bonds. So it is a difficult matter which can be resolved by finding a majority which will adopt some amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164034	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164047	Thank you. There's been a lot of controversy about this bill. It has been called uliberal, and I must also admit that it immediately shatters in a few liberal ears like mine that the state is now about to guarantee loans for ordinary homes. But it is also a bourgeois-liberal core value that we manage the citizens' money in the best way possible. This new scheme means that the State can guarantee the financing of general housing in a cheaper way and release funds for other purposes. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164121	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Roger Courage Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164132	Thank you. L 206 is a draft law amending the General Housing Act, etc. Like Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we are of course also in favour of this being the model we are looking at in relation to funding. So, overall, the reduction in the general housing sector's borrowing costs is not something that any of the parties can oppose. Despite the excellent purpose, we also believe that the scheme contains a number of less good measures. First of all, we note that the proposal here does not improve the competition of general housing in the housing market, because the residents do not achieve any savings on lower rents. The proposal then contains a ban on binding clauses which could at the same time further complicate the calculation of the Landsbygningsfond's contribution to new construction, including the present value calculation of the future benefits of the Landsbygningsfond. As the Landsbygningsfonden, we will question the calculation model for the differential interest rate and the untransparent consequences for the Landsbygningsfonden's cost of renovation aid. A new model for financing general housing with loans granted by State-guaranteed bonds will lead to substantial savings, which will benefit the State alone. In fact, we do not think this is fair to a general housing sector that is under pressure and to ordinary tenants. We believe that the proceeds are best invested in the general sector and, at least, targeted also some of it to accelerate the reduction of the industry's debt, in particular the accelerated winding-up of the very expensive IS35 loans, which otherwise will continue to entail very significant costs for rent and subsidies over the next 30 years. In addition, the proposal does not offer the resident democracy or the professionals of the general sector any opportunities or incentives to operate the country's general housing, as the collectively owned housing supply should do. The alternative would have preferred to simplify the lending and financing of general housing which clearly aims to make the general housing sector self-financing with as low capital costs and rents as possible. Any notion of self-financing of the general housing sector requires that our legislation and financial conditions support the long-term economic and social sustainability of each housing unit, and it is the responsibility of the legislators to make such a development possible and, moreover, to ensure that the operators of the industry are also kept up to this responsibility with strong public supervision. Self-financing of the general sector thus requires that we provide each housing department with reasonable internal and external competitive conditions in their housing market and thus focus on real operating conditions for each housing department. Nor do we achieve this by the present proposal. In the alternative, we want to achieve a better balance in the housing market by supporting more solidarity in housing. We want to ensure that existing general housing is attractive, and that is why we believe that the general sector should be made more free. The alternative suggests that the Folketing and the government review the financing of the country's general housing and present a simplified and transparent model for the financing of general housing, including the future possibilities for own financing, payments to the Landsbygningsfonden and the use of these funds. The alternative is for a sustainable general housing sector, both economically and socially, climate and environmentally, but also for a sector that is much more supportive of the physical and social mobility of our societies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164535	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we've come to the next speaker, and that's sir. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164544	I believe that there were many of us who lifted their eyebrows when we saw a minister from the Liberal Alliance proposing to set up a state bank to lend to the general sector. After a lot of controversy within the government, it has become the banks that still have to borrow out, but with a state guarantee. Then it still saves away, at least according to the Ministry, the government for a small billion dollars, because you can get lower interest costs on the loans. I think that we have ended up with a quite social liberal solution whereby the state, which nevertheless has to bear the costs, goes in and guarantees these loans, but it is still the advantages of the market in relation to pricing that apply and in relation to assessing housing. In this way, a good solution has been found between the state and the market. We think this is a good radical policy, which is why we can support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164653	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164655	Thank you. In the SF, we believe that it is high time to choose a new form of financing. The mortgage loans so far have been far too expensive, given that the real risk has been very, very low. SF already proposed many years ago that it be converted into state One might wonder why, for example. Reloan to Sund & Bælt so is not socialism, but it is just common sense... also a kind of SF... and therefore the government in autumn 2017 actually proposed what SF has previously proposed. Actually, we're really happy about that. If you have then negotiated a model with the mortgage sector in place, which includes the same advantages and, it is said, even a slightly higher gain for the State • then SF has no problem with it, although it is not quite clear why the model provides a higher revenue. Is it perhaps due to the way it has been calculated to meet the slightly hysterical voices that state loans are socialism? you could ask. The SF is clearly in favour of the loan restructuring. There is no reason why bondholders and institutions should earn more in the general housing sector than is necessary. On the other hand, it is sad that the state will take back the entire prize there is nothing for the tenants. The low interest rates have greatly benefited homeowners; general tenants do not, because their housing costs are completely detached from market rates. The landowners also received an uncertainty discount of 20%. in the housing tax settlement; general tenants have received nothing, although often the economically disadvantaged citizens live there. The rent in old general buildings is not unreasonable, but the rent in new and newer buildings is very high, and paradoxically this means that it is difficult to attract economically well-off citizens to these homes. Those who move in are more likely to receive housing support. It is a ghetto mechanism about something, and it is really a pity that the government has not allocated just part of the proceeds to facilitate the starting rent in new general construction. The comments also state: "It is the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing that the household payment (including contributions) will be the same as today...·. I would like that to be clarified. Why is this just an assessment? And can it be wrong that the householder's payment actually increases? Can we have a guarantee that this will not happen? In the SF we are voting in favour of the proposal because the change is a step forward. The money comes down to the treasury for the time being, and we can hope that later we can create a majority to do something about the rent in the general sector for some of this money, because the tenants deserve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164947	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412164956	The purpose of the bill is to implement a new model of financing of general housing, which will apply to publicly supported construction of general housing and renovation, which is supported by the Landsbygningsfonden. In concrete terms, the proposal opens up the possibility for mortgage credit institutions to offer bonds with a 100% State guarantee, which, after all, would lead to cheaper financing and therefore also to a significant lasting budget improvement for the state. It is part of the agreement with the mortgage banks that they have to pay a guarantee commission to the State for the guarantee and, at the same time, sanctions with a negative economic impact on the institutions are incorporated if the State suffers losses on its guarantees. I think that we have managed to strike a very good balance in the agreement, so that both the advantages of using a private provider, the mortgage banks, and the benefits of cheap financing can be achieved, because there is a guarantee from the State. For it is clear that when State guarantees are included, there is a risk of a weakened credit rating and, therefore, the reward element through the repayment of guarantee commissions is an essential element of the legislative proposal which ensures that the financial incentives point in the right direction. Overall, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill, of course. We believe that a sensible balance has been struck in the new model of financing general housing and, at the same time, we are getting very good revenue for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165130	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165134	I find it a little difficult to see where that balance is in making a law that means that it is the state that gets the full benefit of it. It doesn't seem very balanced. If a change had been made which meant that the tenants received half of the benefit, if only one shared balanced it would quickly reach 1 billion. kr., which the state saves... then it was 500 million. kr. to the tenants. This could result, if the Social Democrats' proposals were implemented, in a rent reduction of DKr 8 000. for the dwellings built since the year 2000. That's important. This is, of course, the equivalent of the benefit aid that the government would like to stop paying to the general sector when we build new housing. So it is actually a significant amount if you made it balanced so that the tenants benefited from half of it. One can easily think of something where it is balanced, without it being the Treasury that gets the whole amount. Does the rapporteur not see that it is not balanced?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165236	I think the questioner misunderstood what I meant by balance in the agreement. What I mean by balance is that the state's risk is balanced in that this agreement has been made with the mortgage banks, and that means, of course, the financial incentives for mortgage banks to make a proper rating to ensure that the state does not suffer losses point in the right direction. That is the balance I am talking about when I say that there is a reasonable balance in the agreement that the state enters into with the mortgage banks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165305	It is quite possible that the State has negotiated something with the mortgage banks, which is an advantage for the state because they score the entire prize, and then we are some tenants who have paid too much so far for the loans they have had. The state has been negotiating something which means that they cannot earn so much from loans to the general sector in the future, thus saving the state some money that is put right in the back pocket, while at the same time having a general sector that has a huge renovation needs and other challenges to be solved. I do not think it is balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165338	After all, I think it is very sensible to secure better funding from which the state can benefit, so that they get into our common box. In the past, it was money that was made more by investors because before they paid a higher interest rate, perhaps even a higher interest rate compared to the risk. At least there were rapporteurs from the platform who said so earlier. So I think it makes sense to get that revenue back to the common treasury, and then we will have to discuss what that money is for. That's what we're doing running in here. But in any case, we must be able to agree that it is a question of making the most of the state's finances.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165416	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then the trip has come to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165422	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The draft law modernises the financing model for general construction. The aim is to combine the benefits of private lending with the benefits of state financing. The bill provides both cheaper and more transparent funding. Following a detour on a question of real state loans, the present proposal has been made following constructive discussions with the mortgage sector. The proposal will continue the basic model of financing and support for general construction. The loan will continue to be provided by the mortgage banks. The State will continue to provide aid for the provision of services by residents. Residents' rent payments will not be affected by the bill. The continued involvement of mortgage institutions is a clear advantage as institutions have a thorough knowledge of the general housing sector. The new feature is that the State will in future provide a 100% state guarantee for loans for new construction and renovation of general housing. It provides a lower interest rate on the loans and thus lower state expenditure on the grant aid. A State guarantee must not be free of charge, which is why it is reasonable for mortgage banks to pay guarantee commissions to the State. Institutions may continue to collect contributions from the borrower but must pay an appropriate part of it to the State for the guarantee. The government is, of course, concerned that mortgage banks should continue to have their hands on the hot plate at credit. That is why the proposal contains a remuneration commission. Institutions shall pay for all loans a small amount to the State which each credit institution receives at the end of the year if the State has not experienced losses on the loans. This provides institutions with incentives for continuing high quality credit and an incentive to participate in the so-called fifths solutions in the future too. In this context, it is important that the municipalities also continue to have their hands on the hot plate. Therefore, the current municipal guarantee is retained, now just as a re-guarantee to the state. The renovation of general housing with the support of the Landsbygningsfonden will also be based on state-guaranteed loans. In line with the objective of modernised financing, it is proposed that the savings made by the Landsbygningfonden as a result of the State guarantee be returned to the State. At the same time, it is proposed that in future the granting of subsidised loans for general housing should not include binding clauses. This will no longer restrict the ability to move loans between different creditors. This will encourage competition between credit institutions to offer the lowest possible contributions to the loans. Of course, the benefits of the modernised financing model should not only apply to new loans. Therefore, the conversion of existing loans into state-guaranteed loans is being opened. Overall, the modernised financing model will provide cheaper and more transparent funding for general housing. The proposal represents a significant improvement in the budget for the State, which has been used to finance the defence settlement. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the positive comments. I look forward to the committee reading in the same positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165800	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165804	Thank you for the honesty that this bill is helping to fund the defense settlement. It would have been even more honest if it had appeared in the bill. I haven't even seen it in the background material compared to this bill. So I have, in fact, had some doubts as to whether that text, that is, Annex 5 of the defence agreement, should be understood as meaning that the general sector and the changes to the loans were, in such a way, directly financing the defence settlement. I understand that they are, and it's gonna have to get past another treasury in the Ministry of Finance, so it's gonna go into the fiscal room before it finances these new fighter planes. Thanks for the honesty. That was one thing. The other thing is about this dilemma that has been with the Basel Committee's demands at an earlier stage. Nor is it clear from the draft law whether this sort of thing solves the problem that has previously been addressed as something that could cost the general sector. Does the Minister know if that is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165907	I am not an expert on defence policy, but it is my impression that the agreement on the purchase of new fighter aircraft was made much earlier than this agreement and that it is funded by something else. However, as I said, I am not an expert on defence policy, so it may be that I am wrong. But it is true that one condition for us to be able to make the defence settlement, the latest, is that funding is provided and that funding is provided by this proposal. As far as Basel is concerned, I must also report passports. This kind of business regulation is the responsibility of the Minister for Industry, and I am not an expert on how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412165956	Thank you. Then we were able to clarify that the million people living in the general sector are, through the restructuring of their loans, helping to finance a defence settlement. It is, in fact, a slightly strange extra tax that the population must contribute. I would really like to hear from the Minister whether he would think it would be just as reasonable to change the financing of private housing in the Folketing to something that was cheaper to the private owners to contribute something extra to a defence settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412170034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412170035	On the other hand, it was pure populism and untruth that came out of Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's mouth there. There is not a single crown that is charged extra to the tenants in the general sector to finance a defence settlement. It is the loans to the general sector that are becoming cheaper, thus reducing State aid to the general sector because the costs are lower. Not a single crown will be taken from ordinary tenants. But it is typical of the Enhedslisten sometimes that you come to say things that are simply untrue, to promote your sometimes not too hot political agenda, which is about us having socialism and communism in this society. You can't introduce that with truth, because with the truth you know that people don't want that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412170124	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412170137	The debate is open. And I give the floor to Mrs Astrid Krag as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412170154	I just need to get the microphone to the height after a very high minister has used it. As rapporteur for the elderly, I have the priority of getting as much as possible around the country and visiting citizens and employees in nursing homes, and I have been with sosus and nurses on home visits to older citizens. And during those visits I have met many dedicated leaders and employees who are passionate about their work and are passionate about creating a dignified care and care for the elderly. I have been to several nursing departments in Guldborgsund. I've been to the nicest harvest party in the dementia village in Faxe. I have participated in a memorial dance in Næstved and recently attended a gala dinner at a nursing home in Frederiksberg, together with the Danish People's Party's Senior Rapporteur. These have been star moments, lovely home settings, good places where relatives and volunteers are welcome and you involve and listen to them. On such a few days and during such visits it feels very good to be an older rapporteur, but unfortunately there are also places where everyday life for the elderly is different; where there is too much running; where there are not enough staff on guard; where there is not enough time available for the home helper to reach all the visits on his driving list; where the elderly feel in the way and to trouble, although the intention is that they should have a good help; where you enter a negative spiral with too bad working conditions, sick reports, an increased pressure on the employees who are left, redundancies, a bad framework for caring for the elderly, who may react with an increased degree of aggression if they are outgoing in their dementia disease. These are the sort of stories that regularly hit the media with a bang and sometimes are allowed to slip under the radar. And when you hear about them, it is clear that there is still an extremely important task for the municipalities and for us here in the Folketing to ensure a proper quality of our care for the elderly. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have looked very much forward to discussing the legislative proposal we have before us today. It is important for us now, during a four-year trial period, to have a new independent supervision to follow up on the quality of care and care we provide to elderly people who need help in their everyday lives, whether they live in nursing homes or still live in their own homes. As you know, the new supervision stems from the rate pool agreement from last year, which all parties of the Folketing, with the exception of Enhedslisten, have concluded. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it was important in the negotiations that the new quality concern is not just about controlling the municipalities and putting them on the head where the quality does not meet the professional standard one can expect. For us, it is absolutely crucial that the new supervision focus on learning, so that it is not just about finding faults and shortcomings, but about where quality is not right, getting help, guidance and advice on how to do it better. That is why we would also like to see a clearer link between the new national knowledge centre for dignified care for the elderly and the outgoing travel team than is now apparent from the draft law. I searched the draft law's comments to see if the travel team was mentioned, and it did so twice in one of the opening remarks, but we would like it to be expanded in the comments to the bill by the Social Democrats. I think that was also something that we used a lot of gunpowder on during the negotiations. So it may be that the Minister here will attach a few words to whether there is a particular reason why it is not made clearer. In order for supervision to be able to assess quality, we need a common understanding of what good quality is and, above all, how to get hold of an assessment of that quality. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is obvious that the new supervision and the new indicators that need to be developed, and which are well explained in the draft law, must be thought very clearly together with the work being done to develop new quality indicators in the care of the elderly. Because we cannot escape the fact that we need to be able to measure and follow the action if we are to assess it. We in the Danish Parliament have given each other a hand in this, in a pool agreement, that funds have been set aside and the work is under way. This can therefore be considered even more closely together than is the case with the draft law here. And when I say co-thinking, it goes all the way around, because it is absolutely crucial for us that the bill does not come and impose a lot of new bureaucracy on older workers, but that the new measuring points can replace some of the records that are already being made today so that we do not take time away from care and care. The great unknown factor in the draft law, and also one of the reasons why this is an experimental scheme, is how we ensure with the supervision that it is the right fish we get in the net, so to say, how the supervision selects the nursing homes, home-care homes or home-help units that are at the greatest risk of not providing proper care for the elderly with dignity and quality, i.e. what should trigger a supervisory visit, because we cannot cover every place in the country. It is clear from the draft law that the Board of Patient Safety will develop risk parameters that they will need until 1 July of this year, when the new supervision comes into force. It's really positive, and it's also positive that you can constantly adjust these risk parameters as we hope to get a whole lot of learning and really good knowledge out of this. We are also concerned, as are the Elders' case and other consultation parties, that there should be an easy and visible entrance for the elderly who receive help and for their relatives in order to make the supervision aware of critical conditions. Then we are very positive that the municipal older and senior councils can play a greater role. That is what they themselves have called for in their hearing response. But they can play a greater role both in reporting concerns and in requesting supervision visits, and we will try to follow this a little further in committee. So just to summarise briefly, I would like to say that we can support the bill. And I should say, on behalf of my radical colleague who could not be here today, that they can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412170758	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Jeppe Jakobsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412170805	Thank you. To date, monitoring of the elderly has fallen into two categories, including: the supervision carried out by the municipalities with themselves. It will of course have a value, of course, that you regularly follow up on how things are going with the offers you have as a municipality, but as you know with things that are supervised, there can be a barrier to how tough and hard you actually go to things when you supervise yourself. For external supervision, which has been in the area of the elderly, has been one that has had a particular focus on health care, medicine management, wound care, etc. This has somehow helped to underline the development in which care for the elderly has gone from being about helping to live the life you want to, that care for the elderly is such a kind of nursing and that nursing homes are, in fact, a kind of small hospitals. This is a sad development, which is why we are pleased that we are now also being given supervision, which focuses on more human values, on care and on social issues as well. I have seen examples, for example. a nursing home in Dianalund, where there was a very unworthy approach to citizens. The nursing home had, in fact, right up to these revelations been through a supervision without any remarks. This shows a little that the supervision we have at least had so far has not had the effect that we wanted them to have. It is therefore very good that we now have a new look at the care of the elderly, that we can hopefully return to a discussion that care for the elderly is more and more than keeping people alive, it is also to make sure that they actually live. We also share the views of the Socialist Group in relation to sanctions and the fact that there is probably a limit to the extent to which threats of closure and the imposition of fines can be made. We also see great potential in immersing this with the new knowledge centre for dignified care for the elderly and their travel teams. Anything else could be better if someone were judged to learn instead of just telling them that it should be better, but that we are not going to help them on the way and ensure that it gets better. We want to help the Social Democrats to reach the goal of this new supervision so that it becomes upbuilding supervision rather than just a raised index finger. With that I would say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412171121	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Jane Heitmann as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412171127	When I get old/ Then I will sit on a bench/ Where the sea strikes over the pier/ And take against dull splash of pearl/ By sea, when it glitters in the sun, so does Gnags start their song • When I get old. And don't you think that's how most of us dream that life will look when we grow old? I certainly do. That is why it makes me so immensely sad when I read in the newspaper that there are older people who do not get the necessary care and care when the elderly are in bed all morning when the elderly do not get changed diapers and lie wet and cold in bed or cannot go to the toilet when they need them. That is simply not right. It's unworthy. Fortunately, there are many elderly people who experience professional care, the smell of fresh prepared food that spreads in the living rooms, staff who organise joint eating and bike rides and take the time to lay a puzzle. It is a dignified life to be seen and heard. As a society, we have a special obligation to take good care of our citizens, young people and older people, and especially those who cannot shout in arms, we have an obligation to look after, to show care for, and to ensure that things around them and everyday life are in order at all. That is why we are today dealing first with a legislative proposal on enhanced supervision in the area of the elderly. With the bill, we are now introducing independent risk-based supervision to complement local authorities' current supervision. The supervision shall keep an extra close eye on the places where there is considered to be the greatest risk that care does not meet the desired quality. In health care, we often talk about patient safety, but what about all the citizens who, for one reason or another, live in nursing homes, do they not have a right to citizens' safety? And the answer is, yes. And strengthened supervision is one of the keys to ensuring dignified care and care for our elderly. This is an extremely important point for us in the Left, just as it is vital for us that there are enough warm hands to care for the individual. On the left side, we have sent out a clear signal that we want more warm hands. It has been some sad years during the Thorning government with a negative growth in the municipalities, and it may well be assumed that this has also affected the elderly. Together with the 2016 Danish People's Party, we have allocated funds to enable municipalities to work to ensure that all citizens receive a more dignified care for the elderly. Most of the funds have gone to warm hands in the care of the elderly, yes, in fact as much as 89 per cent. in 2018 and I am very pleased about that. But not only have the municipalities got an extra billion, the dignity billion, every year for a more dignified care of the elderly, we have also allocated EUR 0.5 billion under the 2018 Finance Act. kr. extra a year for warm hands. Qualified staff are of immense importance to the care and care of the individual, but they do not do so alone. A dignified elderly life is also about the fact that in the last year of life there is something to choose from. People are different and have different preferences throughout their lives. That is why it is essential for us in the Left to create a framework such as this. The cutting-card system and gives the individual the opportunity to choose activities as you like. It can be a trip to the street of childhood, a bike ride in a rickshaw, manicure in the local salon, or whatever it may be. It may also be possible to cook in small local kitchens at the individual nursing homes, where our elderly can help and enjoy the smell of freshly prepared meatballs or pork roast. This is an opportunity that we opened up when we set aside 425 million. kr. to the kitchen pool, which 29 municipalities have chosen to make use of. In conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteurs in the pool of rates for good cooperation. I am curious to see where the pilot scheme, with four-year enhanced supervision of the Patient Safety Management Board, leads us as we now move together down the path of independent risk-based supervision. I am confident in reactive supervision, where the board has the opportunity to respond on the basis of a reasonable suspicion, and that it will be a plus in the book to the goal of a more dignified care for the elderly, just as annual summaries, observations and assessments will hopefully increase opportunities for a better overview of the care and care of our elderly. The Left can support the bill as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412171552	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we have come to Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412171558	Thank you for that, President. The legislative proposal we are debating today, as some of my colleagues have said here from the platform before me, is a legislative proposal which translates into an agreement from the rate pool. This is about an experiment with new supervision of care for the elderly, a new and independent supervision, which should focus in particular on those parts of care for the elderly, where there is a particular risk that quality is not right. I think it was Mrs Astrid Krag who mentioned just now that the Enhedslisten is not in the agreement behind it, and that is quite right. We are not part of the pool negotiations. The reason we're not maybe many of you know that we don't think it's reasonable funding. It does exist, of course, by failing to regulate transfer income, among other things. the retirement pension, the early retirement pension and various unemployment benefits, in line with the development of prosperity that we others benefit from. So that is why we are not part of the negotiations and therefore not part of this agreement. However, we can support the content of the legislative proposal itself. We think that is sensible. We think it is very important that we have some experience of having more independent supervision of care for the elderly. I actually think it is wise that it is organised as an attempt, because it is very important that we learn from the experience we have in carrying out supervision in other areas, make sure that it is a supervision that learns from it as the most crucial and, of course, effective, that is to say, which works as intended and which does not turn into an unnecessary time robber for staff either. There is certainly a risk of that, which is why it is good that it is an attempt. We have among other things. I should like to thank the Minister for his technical review. One of the questions we have had has been whether this supervision can go in and address it if there are insufficient resources and competences, for example. in a nursing home and if that could be the reason why the quality was not right. That is why I am pleased to read that one of the things that can be noted from the supervisory board is that resources and competences are not sufficient. That will often explain why quality is not always right, but it can often be. That is why I would just like to end by mentioning an example of what I saw here today. It was Avisen.dk who brought the story that the FOA tells us that there are parts of the care of the elderly for which a strike has otherwise been announced and which must now be exempted from that strike because you cannot provide an emergency response or emergency response equivalent to the manning that is available daily. It is certainly a strong indicator that in some places there are problems with the manning and that this is a major explanation for the fact that we do not have the care of the elderly that we otherwise expect and demand. So we must at least have that discussion forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412171912	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412171918	Thank you. With this bill, we are trying to introduce independent supervision to ensure that personal care, care and care in nursing homes have the necessary quality. When the municipality supervises it, it is in principle itself that you check you are both the buyer and the competitor. So the supervision to be carried out by the Patient Safety Agency during a trial period from 1 July 2018 to 31 December 2021 will be targeted at the sites where it is estimated that the risk of care failure is greatest as well as for concerns. Risk parameters and measurement points shall be established for supervision. It can be in relation to quality of life, self-determination, nutrition, prevention of the use of force. Indicators and measuring points will be developed in cooperation with relevant stakeholders, i.e. representatives of both public and private actors, and ongoing development work will take place throughout the period. An important element for me is that the knowledge and experience gathered through supervision is used to improve not only the bad conditions, but also the good experiences. We must ensure that knowledge of good ways of doing things is shared and disseminated to other nursing homes and other municipalities. We often hear of bad and unworthy conditions, and these must, of course, be improved. These are horrible examples we have seen, and we cannot be familiar with them. But fortunately there are many skilled and committed employees who do a very good job, and older people who experience dignified care and care. We also need to improve our experience at sharing and learning from. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal. And I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412172126	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Roger Courage Matthisen as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412172132	Thank you. I have been allowed to stand for our rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Schnoor. In the alternative, we do not think there is a need for more control of the employees, but it is important and quite natural that the municipalities, which have searched the benefits for the individual elderly, also ensure that there is consistency between the searched performance and the quality of the service provided. We do not want to help build a new bureaucracy, but we would like to help create a greater degree of security and impartiality in the supervision of the assistance provided by the municipality and private suppliers. When the risk-based supervision was introduced in the past, the number of inspections was limited and it was largely left to the municipalities to ensure the health and well-being of our elderly people at home and home care. With this agreement, we are building an additional independent supervision on top of the existing supervision of the municipalities, which is thus maintained. For over the last few years we have seen cases where there have been unworthy and inadequate treatment of the elderly in the municipalities. We must make sure that we get fewer of them all over the world. In Hørsholm, where Mrs Pernille Schnoor lives, they have just experienced one of the many tragic cases that we must do everything possible to avoid. A resident of one of Hørsholms Municipality's nursing homes, Breelteparken, died after 10 days of receiving arthritis medicine daily, even though the arthritis medicine should have been given weekly. She had to call the doctor herself to be hospitalized 5 days later she died. Unfortunately, this kind of error can happen, but the tragic thing here is that in 2016 the official doctor found errors in the field of medicine on the spot that could have had consequences for patient safety. At that time, the chairman of the Social and Senior Committee called the findings of the supervision a flaw in beauty. He told Frederiksborg Amtsavis: "Mr. This quotation, as the Danish Elders' Council also points out in their hearing answer, testifies that municipal employees cannot or should not be used to supervise because they cannot be considered independent, and it is important that this extra supervision should therefore be extended to municipal supervision. Last but not least, the Alternative would also like to acknowledge Danske Eldersråd's comment in their hearing response to involve the experiences and experiences of citizens and relatives. It surprises us if the citizens and relatives' own experiences and experiences are not taken into account, and we will therefore in the committee's work ask further questions about this and will be part of the development work being undertaken by the Patient Safety Agency and will be completed in July 2018. The alternative would like to help us to see as few sad, unworthy and tragic cases as possible in the care of the elderly, and we therefore support L 210. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412172509	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412172517	Thank you. How do we ensure dignified care for the elderly? Well, the answer to that question, frankly, often flies a little in the air when we have discussed the quality of care for the elderly over and over again. Because while we in the SF believe that too many boring reports about far too little care for the elderly are also linked to the fact that more and more elderly people have to share the same too little money, the Minister for the Elderly has in turn referred to the responsibilities of the municipalities. I would like to maintain that this is a joint responsibility, since the law and the economy of the municipalities are the responsibility of the Folketing, while the municipalities are quite rightly responsible for implementing the law. I therefore believe that it would not have been necessary to set up a new supervision in the area of the elderly if the government had backed up a few good SF proposals, which should ensure that the municipalities receive correspondingly more resources as they receive more and more elderly people in need of care and also ensure that older people are entitled to permanent helpers. In fact, the two proposals combined would alleviate the increasing pressure on care for the elderly. That there is enormous pressure on care for the elderly should not be discussed. I am therefore not surprised that the FOA today finds that in the area of the elderly, there are major problems in setting up necessary emergency services because there are simply not enough permanent social and health assistants to cover the vital care and care needs. It's a disaster. My concern for the elderly is shared by the Elders Case, which is also reflected in the consultation responses to this bill. Elders The case would like the supervision to extend to all care units. This is an expression of massive concern for the care of the elderly. Having said that, the implementation of this agreement is not straightforward. The municipalities, the FOA and the Danish Nursing Council also point out this. In contrast to the health law, which already has experience of supervision, the legal requirements for care for the elderly are not quite so obvious. It is up to the individual municipality to define how to meet the obligations of the Service Act, and since the rights of older people in relation to care for the elderly are therefore not chiseled in granite, the standards of the municipalities are also based on a discretionary view. I also think it is important that we follow closely the work on strengthened supervision in the area of the elderly; that in the follow-up work we take stock of the challenges and dilemmas that I think supervision will encounter out there in real life care for the elderly. So, while I am sorry, on the one hand, that with this proposal we are in principle increasing bureaucracy and the administrative costs of care for the elderly, I also think that this is a necessary detour to discussing what we all mean by dignified care for the elderly. In this respect, I look forward in particular to monitoring the development of risk parameters and measurement points. So SF is part of the pool agreement; we have been involved in discussing this proposal and we also support the proposal with these comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412172830	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would be happy to welcome the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412172836	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for today's debate and for the comments on the draft law on enhanced supervision in the area of the elderly. I think we have come well around the draft law and the purpose of strengthening supervision in the area of the elderly. After all, the bill translates into the political agreement on strengthened and independent supervision that the government and the stake pool parties entered into together in connection with the stake pool agreement in the area of the elderly for 2018-2021. The political agreement on enhanced supervision in the area of the elderly arose from a common desire to ensure a greater degree of impartiality in the supervision of the assistance provided by the municipalities themselves and the assistance provided by private suppliers. At the same time, there was also a desire to test a supervision which is carried out on the basis of some indicators as to when social and caring activities do not have the necessary quality. It was agreed that it should be the Board of Patient Safety, which was to supervise for a period of 4 years. We also agreed that the model for testing independent and risk-based supervision in the area of the elderly should be based on the model we have with the current risk-based supervision of health care. Finally, we agreed to maintain the current oversight of care for the elderly. The bill here therefore states that it is the Board of Patient Safety, which is responsible for the risk-based supervision of elderly care over a 4-year trial period. We have adopted the same regulatory framework as the risk-based supervision in the field of health. This is true, for example. in relation to the rules governing the registration of units, the possibility for the Board to impose requirements on social and care activities, and, if necessary, to be able to obtain access to a unit. With the bill, we are empowering the Patient Safety Agency to have a number of powers in order to be able to exercise independent supervision. As the bill also shows, a development work is being carried out in the Agency for Patient Safety until 1 July 2018, when the bill comes into force. The development work will contribute to the development of the criteria and indicators to be used by the Board in the new risk-based supervision of elderly care. In the bill, the new supervision is limited to a trial period up to 31 December 2021, and this means that the Patient Safety Agency will develop over the entire period on oversight in line with the knowledge and experience that comes with supervision. This also means that there are elements about the new supervision, which will only be developed during the spring and until 1 July of this year, and which we cannot, therefore, at this stage, put into practice so much. I would then like to say that I share both the call of the Social Democrats and the rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party and would like to see the travel team of the new National Knowledge Centre sparring and advising in relation to specific practical challenges experienced in nursing homes or in home care, as the supervision has complained about during their supervision visits. I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for receiving the bill and for today's debate. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and, of course, I am responding to any questions the committee may put to the draft law along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412173229	Thank you. There doesn't seem to be any questions, so we say thank you to the Minister for the Elderly. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412173308	The debate is open and the first rapporteur to welcome is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412173324	Thank you. Well, how good people are, do good people come to or what can we afford to say without being too self-sustaining, sir. President. Also a welcome to you on the audience from me. The bill we are discussing here, like the previous bill, translates into part of the wagering pool agreement entered into last year by the Danish Parliament's parties minus Enhedslisten, namely the introduction of a nursing home portal. The decision to move or send your old parent to a nursing home is probably one of life's most important decisions to make. It can be difficult to get there, and when you get there, it can be difficult to find your way through the various offers and profiles that the various nursing homes have to offer. The offer portal available today does not provide sufficient help as it is neither targetedly weakened citizens nor their relatives seeking information on potential nursing homes, nursing homes or free-care homes. That is why it is good that we now have a genuine nursing home portal to help older citizens and their relatives with the sometimes insurmountable decision. What is crucial is that the upcoming nursing home portal is created with the transparency that will provide older citizens and their relatives with better information to make a good and informed choice. That the nursing home portal can help to support citizens' independence and influence on their own lives • also when you can no longer claim the quality and topicality of the information that will be available on the nursing home portal, and that is why we Social Democrats are also very pleased that the government is proposing to launch a user survey to clarify what information the elderly and their relatives are looking for, as indeed Danske Elder's Council has also called for in their hearing response. However, for social democracy, it is also very important that the nursing home portal does not end up becoming another paper tiger, another round of unnecessary bureaucracy, because the elderly do not need that. It must be crucial that we ensure easily accessible registration so that municipalities and others do not have to spend unnecessary time, but can continue to spend time on core tasks for the elderly. We must not get there because extensive work on reporting and documentation is done at the expense of the elderly, even if this means that the nursing home portal will be very attractive. With those comments, we can support the bill as it stands here, and we should welcome colleagues in the Radical Left to say that they can also support the bill as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412173542	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag for today's work, and welcome to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412173549	Thank you. No Christmas at Karstensminde Residential home. You could read this just two days before Christmas Eve last year. The headline made me think: It was rough enough anyway. Is it really so bad out there in quite a country that Christmas is no longer affordable in nursing homes? But when you read through the article, it was not because of lack of money that Christmas had been cancelled, that the goose had not been sent to the bakery, and that the elves were denied access to the hallways. No, it was because there was a principal who was a member of Jehovah's Witnesses. The elderly were somewhat puzzled about that. They hadn't really thought about that when they chose to look for a place at Karstensminde Residential home. This made me go to the Minister for the Elderly, because it can't be right that you can't know these very basic things about where to live. You have to be aware of that in advance. It turned into a bet pool initiative around this nursing home portal. Now citizens are given the opportunity to choose whether to go to a nursing home that has a special focus on music and song, or a nursing home that emphasizes that you go into nature, or a nursing home with perhaps a religious basis of value or anything else that you can imagine. Whether fresh food is made every day at the nursing home. Indeed, it is almost only the imagination that limits how nursing homes can now describe themselves, so that citizens will live where they feel at home. This is perhaps an important discussion that we need to be much better at. I know that the elderly minister is good at consistently saying care home care center and can you imagine any worse fate than living in a place where you don't feel at home? Conversely, it can be said that with this nursing home portal it can suddenly become very clear to citizens if there is a municipality that fails its responsibility to ensure a wide range of opportunities in the nursing home area. If you can go in and look at a portal, when you want to help your parents get written up for a nursing home, there are no places that have a special relationship with, for example. animals or outdoors, despite living in a large rural community, where there are a lot of elderly people who have lived their entire lives closely with animals and nature, you can use this nursing home portal to investigate the market, as it were, and to put pressure on your local politicians by saying: you have to take this more seriously, and you have to think that this is more than a task you have to solve because it is in the law, but that it is actually something you have some thoughts and some ideas about. So in the Danish People's Party we are of course happy that you now have the opportunity to make an informed choice about where you want to live, because it is probably the most important thing in life: Where do you live, and feel at home where you live? But, on the other hand, we are also pleased that a debate can now be held better on an enlightened basis about how care for the elderly should be arranged in your home municipality, and that you can focus on where it lags, and on the municipalities around where you should offer more opportunities. I shall conclude, therefore, by saying that we warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412174013	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jacobsen. It did not give rise to brief remarks and a warm welcome to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412174022	Thank you. The decision to move to a nursing home is difficult for some and easy for others. Whatever your approach, a nursing home for most people is the last dwelling on the road to life. And it is so crucial that you have the best conditions for choosing right when choosing the last right home. Today we are discussing a bill that should make it both easier and more secure for older people and their relatives to choose the right nursing home. We are all different, we have different preferences and different needs from the first to the last years of life. From cradle to jar, if I may say so. Life is like a blanket: It is woven of threads in different colors, some are bright, others are dark. And that must also be reflected in the choice of the last home. A home where there is room for both the light and the dark threads and the small and large knots that the threads can beat along the way. It is to me the essence of the framework of a dignified old age. The bill, which we are discussing here today, establishes a nursing home portal which will contain information on nursing homes, nursing centres and free homes. The portal will contain information about the individual nursing homes and homes. It can be a basis of value, how to celebrate Christmas, whether you are celebrating Christmas at all, and whether you must bring your beloved dog or cat with you when you move to a nursing home. It can be relationships about religion, trips into the blue and communal eatings, how to invite relatives in and much, much more. In short, the things that make a nursing home for the home and what everyday life one can expect as a resident. It is a question of dignity and of the elderly being able to make a choice on as enlightened a basis as possible when the last threads of the carpet of life are to be woven. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we have a sharp focus on a dignified life for our elderly. With the dignity billionaire we, together with the Danish People's Party, have lifted the care of the elderly and ensured more warm hands to take good care of our elderly. These are funds that have now been followed up by a significant boost in this area following the latest financial law. And worthy care has many faces. For me, it acts, among other things. That you are seen and heard, that you get your medicine on time, that you get the right pills and are not lying for hours in a wet diaper, and that you can go to the bathroom when you are needy. That your home is clean, that you bathe when you need it, and that freshly prepared food is served, to mention just a few examples. If I have to dwell on the food for a moment, we have set aside 450 million with the 2017 Finance Act. kr., so municipalities can improve and renew kitchens in nursing homes so that our elderly can experience the joy of the smell and taste of good and homemade, freshly prepared food. Like when you lived at home in your own home, and our mother made it. With the portal here, you get the opportunity to choose on or off. Then the vegetarian can choose a form of housing where vegetarian food is offered, the farmer can choose a form of housing that weighs trips to the local forest high, or a former chairman of the parish council can choose a nursing home where the local priest comes by regularly and conducts a service. The specific information contained in the inventory will include: be determined on the basis of a user survey which sheds light on what information older people and their relatives are looking for. For us in the Left, transparency is essential, and we would like to see, for example, that: absenteeism or a user satisfaction study is part of the notice, which has to be written afterwards. On the left side, I can say that we look forward to the portal being realized and that our older people, together with their relatives in peace and quiet, will be able to inform themselves of the various possibilities that exist for choosing your last home and under which homely frame the last threads of the carpet of life must be woven. Let us cross our fingers so that the threads become bright and that the time at the nursing home becomes exactly as one had dreamed, and that a long life ends with dignity and in the best possible framework. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412174433	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann for her political speech and welcome Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412174441	Thank you for that, President. Enhedslisten, De Red-Green. Here we have a bill which deals with a new website, where you should be able to find information about which nursing homes there are and what else characterises the nursing homes. We think that's a great idea. It is good that it is easier to get an overview of which nursing homes exist and what characterises them. Some people find that hard to get today. I think it came to sound a little bit on some of the speakers who have been before me as if there were virtually free choice on all shelves, but the reality is that the choice one can make about which nursing homes one would like to enter is limited by what nursing homes exist near, where one lives and what they offer, as well as there may be some restrictions on how many places there are. So it is just for us to promise no more than we can keep up with the debate that is here. I think there may be a tendency to do so. It is also, as I understand it, that Mrs Jane Heitmann also explained that it will not be the case that only imagination sets limits, as Mr Jane Heitmann said. Jeppe Jakobsen says how to describe himself. There will be some what to say standardisations of it, so hopefully it is also useful information that is easy to find around. All this is actually very good, that is, that there is some sort of collection on what it is like to describe the different nursing homes. The fact that Enhedslisten is not part of the agreement is due to the financing of this proposal. It is also a proposal financed by the rate pool and, as I mentioned before, the rate pool is financed, as you know, by the fact that, for example, the transfer income of pensioners, early retirement pensioners, benefit recipients, etc. is not regulated in line with wage developments. After all, it is a process or a way of financing that has been used for many years now, and just to put such a little more body on what that means, it means that an ordinary folk pensionist has paid the equivalent of DKK 7,116. a year, by not following that trend. So we simply do not think that this kind of financing is reasonable, and I also believe that this is a purpose in which we can discuss whether it is within the scope of the tariff pool. This is also a genuine operational initiative of a permanent nature. So we would clearly have preferred these funds to have been found in the Finance Act. We thought that was far more reasonable. But we can support the idea of a nursing home portal and vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412174724	Thank you to the Enhedslisten, the Red Greens rapporteur, and welcome Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412174735	Thank you. Freedom of choice and self-determination are part of a dignified life. All our lives we have decided where we want to live, and we must also be able to do so when we are old and dependent on other people, but free choice requires that we have knowledge of what we can choose and what the quality is of what we can choose. It is precisely the intention of the nursing home overview to make it easy and manageable to find relevant information about the different nursing homes, nursing centres and free homes from which you can choose. Exactly what specific information is included shall be determined, inter alia: on the basis of a user survey to ensure that the information is relevant to the relatives and to the elderly. Examples could be furnishings, food arrangements, activities, the possibility of animals, personnel replacements, temporary workers, absenteeism, or, as we have heard earlier today, whether the principal belongs to Jehovah's Witnesses. It is important that the new nursing home overview is targeted at users. It must be easily accessible and manageable and, at the same time, as simple as possible also administratively so that time spent for registration is minimized for both private and public suppliers. A solution with cross-check options and detailed descriptions, as the National Association of Municipalities calls for, will be a good solution, which is also the Minister's presentation in the bill. The nursing home overview must strengthen the free choice and competition between the suppliers, so that we get the best quality at the best price, and I know that for many years the elderly minister has been intent on getting such an overview. For myself, it was also a burning wish, and I am pleased that together and together with the other parties of the Danish Parliament, and also the Enhedslisten supports it, we could agree on this approach. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412174950	Thank you very much to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Then we do it that we move SF forward, and I would like to welcome Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party. Indeed, we have a chance that Mrs Pernille Schnoor will be able to arrive if we exchange the rapporteurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175010	A nursing home portal was one of the many wishes of the recent wagering pool negotiations. I would like to reveal that this is not a proposal for which SF can take credit. Others have already done so. The bill that we are discussing today must implement the rate pool agreement. In principle, the portal replaces the current offer portal. It is fine that we have a common and comprehensive overview of nursing homes in Denmark, but precisely because the portal replaces another portal, I also think it is relevant to be ambitious in terms of content. I would therefore also like to encourage the Minister to reconsider the identical proposals from FOA, Danske Elderreråd, Dansk Elderreråd, Dansk Erhvervs og Selveje Denmark, all of which point out that a portal can usefully also contain information about user surveys, staff composition, professional competences, for example, in relation to citizens with dementia and standardisation. I also immediately share the call from KL to ensure that the portal does not increase administrative burdens in the municipalities, and I would therefore suggest that the Minister consider whether the portal can also be developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, so that a portal can contain all relevant nursing homes and educational and psychiatric settlements. It is in fact in order to ensure that we do not have to invent the deep plate more than once, so it may make sense to have a single template once and for all, which a central unit can be responsible for maintaining, but it must of course be the individual municipality and the individual nursing home managers who are responsible for the content of the individual housing offers. Finally, I would also urge the Minister to reconsider whether it makes sense that the portal should be kept up to date with information on how to visit nursing homes, etc., or whether it might be useful to refer to citizens.dk where the information already exists. Maybe it's a job for the Minister of Innovation. I recognise that it can be really hard to find around the offers that you need to find around in if you suddenly need help. Because despite the idyllic nature of which other rapporteurs have tried to draw a picture in relation to care for the elderly, the reality is that no one is dreaming that they should become dependent on care for the elderly, or for that matter dreaming that they should end their days in a nursing home. So often the situation is that when you need a nursing home, it is quite acute. Therefore, it can also be difficult to orient oneself. It makes good sense to make things easier, but we also know that the decision often has to be taken in a very short time. That is why, of course, we must also make it clear that the nursing home in which you may dream of living when you are old and want to sit on a bench and look out over the water may not necessarily be available at the time when you want to have a home. So, of course, we must also keep an eye on whether the need for housing increases as more and more elderly people need a nursing home. But, of course, the SF supports the proposal. We're part of the deal and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175343	Thank you for that to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. We are now fortunate that we have an opportunity to have a speech from the Alternative, namely from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, who has just taken off and made it. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175359	I almost made it. I'm a little out of breath 'cause I've been running up the stairs. I would say that in the alternative we are in favour of older people having as much self-determination and co-determination as possible, and this proposal can contribute to that. What might concern us was if it gave too much competition, so it should not be such parameters that are about competing between the individual nursing homes. I think that's about what I'm gonna say. We vote in favour. I'm not gonna get rid of my breath before I'm done, I guess. We're in the deal and we're voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175504	Thank you so much. There is a brief comment to Mrs Pernille Schnoor from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175520	I just want to ask Mrs Pernille Schnoor what she means by too much competition. Well, what's the risk of it or the bad thing about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175535	I do not think, from our perspective, that it is an advantage to use it in this way to point the finger at those who are worse than some others. I think the most important thing is that it is information because you have the opportunity to choose where you want to go. And in this way it must be an enlightenment, more than it has to be something where you compete nursing homes out against each other, because then it can be some parameters that you have to sell yourself on, and I do not think that is what it should be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175615	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175616	I agree, of course, that it should be used constructively and positively. Well, it's not just to hang someone out or to knock someone on top of your head, it's to use it for learning; for us to share the good experiences, so that you can learn from each other and the bad ones there must of course be straightened up. It was just because it sounded as if the rapporteur thought that there was competition between some bodies or between some suppliers or between some companies and the public sector, like a bad thing. And I would like to know whether a monopoly does not have more difficulty in increasing quality to users than a market where there is little competition. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175708	What I meant by competition was that it should not be used as such a hit list, so we do not get such a hit list of what is the best nursing home in Denmark. I don't think we can use that for anything. That's what I meant. Because if it goes and becomes such a tool, it's gonna be some wrong thing you're gonna be betting on. It is, of course, individual what you need. So you have to decide on that too. But the short part is that we are in the agreement and that we are in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175748	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to welcome the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175755	First of all, I would like to thank you for your comments on the draft law and for the debate in the Chamber. I am pleased that the government, together with the remaining rate pools, has given priority to the means to create an overview of nursing homes for the elderly. We agreed in the pool agreement to establish a nursing home overview to help the elderly, who are about to move to a nursing home, make a good and informed choice. We want to create an overview that is more direct than the Offer Portal is aimed at the elderly and their relatives. So with this nursing home overview, we strengthen the free choice of the elderly, and free choice is infinitely important, because we people are different, and we must be allowed to do so throughout our lives, even on the day we may need help and need to move to a nursing home. When faced with the big decision alone or with your relatives, you need to know which values are being worked on in the individual nursing home, what the surroundings are like, whether you can bring your pets with you or whether the food is being made at the nursing home or not. The content and design of the nursing home table shall be laid down, inter alia: on the basis of a user survey, thus taking into account the wishes of the elderly and their relatives. At the same time, the user survey shows that a nursing home overview will also be able to help visitors and nursing home managers in their work. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for a good debate on the upcoming nursing home overview.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412175943	You're welcome to the Minister for the Elderly. There are no brief comments. I want to know if there are any more of you who want to speak. If there isn't, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180412180004	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 13 April 2018, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
