ParlaMint-DK_20180125100031	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Kristian Jensen): Bill no. L 127 (Proposal for a law on the supplementary allocation for the financial year 2017). Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 129 (Proposal for a Law amending the Agricultural Support Act. Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill No. L 130 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Production Schools. Bill No. L 131 (Proposal for a law amending the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc.) Jesper Kiel (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 66 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the pool of rates and the creation of a social development and innovation pool). Marlene Harpsøe (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 19 (What can the Minister say about the challenges of recruiting social and health workers in the country's municipalities, including what initiatives the government intends to take to ensure that there are enough well-educated to take care of the present and future care for the elderly and people with physical and mental impairments?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100154	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 33 by Marianne Bredal (V), Carsten Bach (LA) and Mette Abildgaard (KF). The vote is over. In favour, 29 (V, LA and KF) voted against 72 (S, DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 31 by Jens Joel (S), Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Christian Poll (ALT), Andreas Steenberg (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF). In favour of voting 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 32 of Pia Adelsteen (DF). In favour 23 (DF), against 80 votes (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100427	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100441	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100517	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100536	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 93 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100606	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100624	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 102 votes (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100652	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100711	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100737	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100754	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100819	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100838	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 21 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100907	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100923	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125100953	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125101014	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 6 (ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. Then we can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125101132	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125101151	First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the views of the proposers on the Øresund as a fine natural area, which has much to offer for both residents and tourists. Very many people use Øresund for fishing, leisure interests etc. The Øresund is a naturally varied area with many species, including fish species. This is due, among other things, to: the current conditions of the area, variations in the salt content of the water, differences in depth conditions and seabed conditions. However, the people living at the Øresund not only benefit from the Øresund because of the natural values. The Øresund is also an important source of raw materials, which forms part of the necessary development of the metropolitan area for the benefit and pleasure of the many people living and moving in the capital. From what we know, I don't see it as a contradiction. We can maintain the Øresund as a fine natural area while ensuring the sustainable extraction of raw materials from the Øresund to the benefit of the development of the metropolitan area. In this context, I think it is important to mention that mining has taken place for decades, while at the same time the state of the environment has developed positively. I therefore do not agree with the proposers that maintaining a good marine environment and a valuable natural area in the Øresund requires a ban on the extraction of raw materials. The two things are already co-existing today. When we talk about the Øresund in this context, I refer to the part of the Øresund that lies north of the Øresund Bridge, and I suppose that is also the part of the Øresund that the proposers focus on in their proposals. As I mentioned, there has been mining in Øresund for decades, some years more than others, and in 2012-2014 there was a major objection in two mining areas called Vedbæk and Disken. The materials were among others: used for the Nordhavn project, and in addition to the large recovery, unfortunately, the permissible recovery amounts were exceeded. Against this background, the rules for mining and quarrying were generally tightened, and the then Minister for the Environment initiated a series of studies on mining and quarrying in Øresund. The amended rules mean that since 2015 it is possible to monitor the extraction of raw materials more closely. That means, among other things, that... the possibility of requiring authorisation holders to report more frequently once the authorised quantity is exhausted. In this way, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency can keep up with the fact that the permissible recovery amount is not exceeded. In addition, the requirements were specified for environmental studies to be carried out prior to the issue of recovery permits for, inter alia: new areas. It was also decided to set annual ceilings for a number of mining areas, and this also applies to areas in Øresund. This means that restrictions were imposed on the quantities of raw materials to be recovered annually in the Øresund. A number of studies were then launched which showed that there are significant unused raw materials in the Øresund ^ ■ actually there are many decades of current consumption. A study in 2014 of the effect of mining in the former recovery area of the Disk showed that the bottom fauna in the recovery area itself and in a 500-metre zone around the recovery area were affected by the extraction of raw materials, but that outside this no significant impact could be seen. The studies have been repeated in 2017 in collaboration with Swedish authorities, and the Danish EPA has announced that the results of this study will be available in spring 2018. If we look at the environmental effects of extraction of raw materials, we know today that it affects the seabed itself in the area where it is recovered and in the impact zone around the recovery area. There is no knowledge that indicates that mining should affect the entire marine ecosystem in Øresund. There are many conditions that affect the marine environment of the Øresund in addition to mining. That is, for example, the case. effects due to natural variations in the salt content of water and current conditions as well as nutrient concentrations and environmentally hazardous substances. In addition, noise from shipping traffic may potentially affect the spread of e.g. guinea pig. Raw material recovery is thus one factor among many. Prior to thinking about conservation, one should carefully consider what knowledge there is or is not about the conditions. It is this knowledge of harmful effects or not in various activities that should determine whether there is a need for change in regulation or even conservation. It is important that the debate is characterised by an understanding of the proportions and extent of the abstraction taking place in the Øresund. Let me therefore highlight some facts. It is now allowed to enter two areas in the part of the Øresund that lies north of the Øresund Bridge, namely in an area called Lappegrund, located north of Helsingør, and in the area called Skovshoved. The two areas together account for approx. 0,5% It is therefore a very limited area in which it must be recovered at all. And, as I said, there is also a limit to the amount of raw materials to be imported. It is obvious to say that this is a snapshot and that it can be imagined that much larger amounts will be recovered in the future and that recovery can be permitted in other areas of the Sound. To that I would say: yes, but it will require a permit from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which can only be granted after thorough studies, including the environmental consequences. The rules are such that before more areas of mining can be laid down in the Øresund or permit large quantities to be extracted in the two areas referred to above, the applicant undertaking must carry out both a detailed survey of the raw material resources in the area and environmental studies. In addition, an environmental impact assessment shall be carried out on the extraction of raw materials for which applications are made. The impact assessment shall include: elucidate the importance of the desired extraction of raw materials for animals and plants in the area, rock reefs, fish stocks and noise. When these analyses are available, there is a public consultation on the application for recovery, including the results of the environmental studies. These are solid requirements for studies, documentation and transparency, and, in this context, it is my opinion that we already have sufficiently strict rules on when we authorise the extraction of raw materials at sea. With our permits and the conditions set out therein, we ensure that recovery takes place in a sustainable manner. Finally, let me stress that we need raw materials from Øresund for projects in the metropolitan area, for example. housing and construction projects. If raw materials cannot be retrieved in the Øresund, they must be retrieved elsewhere. Among other things, it will: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. Within the Capital Region there are not enough raw materials on land and therefore large quantities of raw materials are currently being taken from the Region of Zealand for projects in the metropolitan area. At the same time, Region Sjælland estimates that it will be difficult to identify new catchment areas on land in the future. And it is not without influences to extract raw materials on land. Here, digging large holes has visible environmental and natural consequences. This applies both to the area in question, but also in the form of increased truck transport of raw materials across the country, which, as I said, increases the cost and environmental impact of transport. Finally, I can also imagine that if you ask neighbors about gravel pits on Zealand or residents in areas where there is heavy traffic with trucks to and from digging areas, if they think it is a good idea to pick up the necessary raw materials for the capital of their area, there is no doubt that there is also a position on this. The government believes that we must strike the right balance between using natural resources and protecting nature. The Government considers that the current rules governing the authorisation of the entry of raw materials at sea provide a sufficient basis for ensuring the sustainable extraction of raw materials in Øresund. However, I recognise that there has been and certainly will continue to be a sense of concern among some. However, it is important for the debate to take place on an informed professional basis. I will therefore take the initiative to map out the existing knowledge of Øresund's natural and raw material resources, and to carry out targeted studies in Øresund on the natural dynamics of and around the suction holes, as well as on the importance of the extraction of raw materials on Lappegrund in relation to the population of porpoises. Finally, we will have the opportunity to discuss the need for further action in the context of the future Maritime Strategy II, to be drawn up this year as a result of the Marine Strategy Directive. In this context, we will also look at costs and opportunities to find similar resources on land and will involve industries and stakeholders as appropriate. However, in relation to the motion for a resolution, the government does not consider it necessary, on this basis, to proceed with the establishment of protected natural areas in the Øresund region, and it is therefore also the view of the government that the motion for a resolution should be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102019	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102028	Thank you for your speech, I would like to say to the Minister. The minister mentioned that the Øresund is a fine natural area. It is a completely unique natural area throughout the Northern Hemisphere because we have not trawled in those areas for 80 years. I believe that we should recognise the enormous value that is so close to our capital in one of our maritime areas. It is quite obvious that we need raw materials, but of course we do not have to pick up the raw materials from a unique international natural area. I would also like to ask the Minister to elaborate on what kind of knowledge the Minister thinks we do not have. I understand that a little has perhaps been listened to by the Conservatives in the government who have wanted this to be free from mining for some time, and now the environmental consequences will be examined. We have little doubt about that. We know what's happening. We know what you leave out in nature when you dig deep holes and extract raw materials. So what is it that the Minister does not think we know so that we can adopt this excellent motion for a resolution and provide the Øresund with the necessary protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102143	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102144	I do not know whether the rapporteur did not listen to what I said in my speech, but we need to identify the resources, also in relation to where additional resources might be available for the recovery in the Sound. I know that Enhedslisten's rapporteur probably doesn't care about people living in West Zealand, who will then just have an increased environmental impact as a consequence if it is to be picked up there. But we have a job to do to all the citizens of this country and not just the citizens in one place. I said very clearly in my speech that I am preoccupied with the Øresund as a resource, but it is 0.5 and I repeat: 0.5 percent of the Øresund we are recovering from. Of course, studies are under way at this stage, which must be completed before we do any further work. It would be completely unqualified to stand here and adopt a resolution when environmental studies are under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102235	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102237	35 years ago, the Swedes decided to introduce protection for the Øresund. They have very extensive evidence of the damage caused by, among other things: mining and quarrying. But is it to be understood in this way that resources will be identified elsewhere in order to retrieve resources in those places and stop mining in the Øresund? Is this like the first step towards it, or how exactly is this mapping supposed to be understood? What is the ultimate goal, what is the horizon, what is it you want to achieve?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102309	Although I am of Swedish descent, I am delighted that the Danish Government does not act like the Swedish Government in a large number of circumstances, including in this area. Look, we're preoccupied with securing a raw material resource for the capital's development. We are concerned that this is taking place environmentally soundly and sustainably, and that is of course also why the then SR government decided that it could continue to have extraction of raw materials. Then, of course, it is amusing that the former minister of that government has suddenly seen the light of clarity, and now everything must be banned. The Enhedslisten was also known to me as a support party for the government that decided to continue this practice, and one might well wonder why they allowed it to happen when they are so quick to put an end to it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102349	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102354	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think we have to be frank: the extraction of raw materials in the Øresund has been disastrous. It is true that there are several of us who are responsible for this. But now we know that it has been disastrous. You take the sand and the gravel from the banks where the fish breed because that's where you can get it. This will have consequences for the whole ecosystem, and it is not a hypothesis; unfortunately, it is something we know and that local fishermen know because fish are not there and are also affected by, and so on. etc. That is why, of course, the key question is: can we not do it in another way? Do we have any alternatives? We have also examined this, and it is true, as the Minister says, that there is a modest additional cost. It has been estimated by others at 10-15 million. kr., which will then cost more, it can be said that the many projects we all agree on should be in Copenhagen. But I am of the opinion that the 10-15 million. kr. the business community around Øresund can bring home in many other ways via tourism, fishing, etc. So I hope it will also be included in the study that the Minister is now saying he will carry out how much we can gain from going this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102508	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102510	Thank you. I am very aware that we also need to identify the economic resource as additional expenditure. I have no private desire whatsoever that we should necessarily find raw materials in all kinds of places at sea. It is just my government's job to ensure that there is a supply of raw materials to the capital. Of course, we must ensure that this is done in an environmental and sustainable way. And yes, it is quite right, as the rapporteur also says, that it has some environmental consequences where it is going. What I'm saying is it's going on at 0.5%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But if we can map resources elsewhere and that's what we're doing now here... of course we need to look into it. For I am very aware that there are unique conditions, also in the Sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102556	Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102558	But then I actually think I will try a little constructively just to outline what the government has promised here. In the current year we will be conducting a study which brings together all the knowledge we already have and I agree with Enhedslisten, which I think we have, but it is fine that we get it all together: what are the natural stresses and consequences of the developments that have taken place and are taking place? On the one hand, the alternatives to obtaining the quantity of raw materials to be used in the metropolitan area and the cost, and also, on the other hand, what can be gained from getting it elsewhere, and this will happen this year. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102639	That's correct. We expect that during the spring we will be able to complete that mapping so that we have a basis to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102646	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102652	After all, we are obliged to identify what is called protected marine areas or translated MPAs and marine strategy areas under the Marine Strategy Directive, and this must actually happen by 2020. This could be a completely obvious step to take in this direction. So I just want to hear what the government has of plans to live up to that commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102718	I know that in Denmark we have already identified more protected seabed than we are obliged to. I think we have appointed 17 per cent, but I can inform Mrs Trine Torp of that in writing so that I do not say anything that is not right from the platform. But I remember that's about where we are. How we are going to launch it in relation to Marine Strategy II, we will, of course, present when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102742	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102743	The next question follows on from some of what Mr. Martin Lidegaard said, "This is what it is with some opportunities that lies in marketing, among other things. MPA in this area. Imagine if we could go with HELCOM on this project... what potentials could be in global getting this particular area on the agenda. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102813	I have not thought much of that, I would like to say. We have an obligation that we are in charge of in the Danish Government, and that is what we are doing in the work on Sea Strategy II in relation to the directive, and we are not involving other governments in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102831	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102836	Thank you. When you look into the natural consequences of mining, you can very easily be turned on by such a sacred environmental fire and immediately jump to propose that dredging should be banned. That is also the position I myself take. However, it is clear that environmental policy and environmental considerations must go hand in hand with regard to jobs and construction and the like. That is also the balance that the Minister is talking about. However, we have examined what the consequences for construction will be of a dredging stop. Sir. Martin Lidegaard said earlier: that is about 10-15 million. kr., it will cost extra for the construction sector. It is so small a cost that I do not think it can be measured as a percentage for the construction industry. Will the Minister not try to deal with the balance-sheet, that is, the natural gain that will be, faced with the very, very small extra burden that will be for the construction industry? Because I agree with the logic of the balance sheet, but we do know what the balance sheet looks like, what real impact it will have on the construction sector, and it is therefore marginal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102940	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125102943	Well, I can't tell you how much the capital is going to develop for the next 20 years compared to more construction and the like. I hope, then, that we will see explosive growth here. Then you have to deal with the fact that if you are not to pick up that resource at sea, it has to be picked up on land. Then it means increased truck transport into the capital, and I know some of these left-wing parties are against truck transport in the capital. What about the citizens living in the areas of the Region of Zealand who will then have even more truck traffic and who will have to live with the consequences of it? It is as if you are just thinking about the Øresund and nature and do not take any account of the people affected on land. We're just preoccupied with that in the government. It may well happen that you are not in SF and Enhedslisten, but we are. So for me, it's not just a question of 10-15 million. kr. In the case of transport, it is also the consideration of where resources are to be recovered.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103038	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103040	I now think that the Minister will be polemical, and I will therefore refrain from commenting on it and sticking to the first thing the Minister says, namely that if the construction moves in such a direction that we need it, it is important to be able to get the resources. I agree with that, and that is why I do not support a total conservation that will limit Copenhagen's development. At present, however, it would be wise to stop dredging for natural reasons, and we have given that possibility to the minister under the SR government. So why not call for real political negotiations to stop the dredging? I agree that we should not make a conservation that will limit us in the future, but the dredging and economic benefits of this activity are simply not in line with the environmental consequences at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103121	It is quite all right for the Socialist rapporteur to have that assessment. My assessment will be based on fact when we have that mapping, and then I will deal with it later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103131	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103140	Thank you. I also think it became a little polemic in the Minister's last reply, because it is clear that if you move some dredging from Øresund to somewhere in Zealand, you get an increase in road transport. I think we need to talk about the balance towards a higher level of recycling of materials that can be used in these construction projects, because that is the way we should instead. But I really want to know if the Minister can't see these amazing potentials that lie in it. Just as we have a fantastic natural area on Amager, namely the Amager Common, we will also be able to identify here a fantastic natural area in our capital, which is connected, which people live right up against, and to which people will wander, for example. gets an international honor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103238	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103240	With all due respect for the attraction that it will have for the Øresund that we stop dredging at 0.5%. of the area, I doubt it makes it a tourist magnet. I'd like to say that. If you had to stop dredging on the 0.5%, it is purely for reasons of nature and, of course, also that there may be some other activities. But I don't think that's what makes Øresund a tourist magnet. I believe that many people are aware that this is a natural area today, and if you want to get there, you can do it in a very, very easy way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103314	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103317	This is, of course, the context on which the questions have already been raised, namely that it is not a question of either-or that it is 0.5%, but a question of preserving the coherent natural image, because dredging in the small areas naturally affects the ecosystem. That's what we need to balance by stopping these activities. Doesn't the Minister see that potential and that connection?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103343	No, because if we were to follow that line of thought, we would have to ban all fishing throughout the Øresund region, and then we would have to ban all shipping, because it also disturbs nature. It's such a never-ending story if you can speak English, and I apologize if I did. It's an endless story, which is being continued by Mr. Christian Poll's political intention. No, Øresund is where it is. There's a capital that's up to Øresund. It must be provided with resources, and that is one of the things we are starting from today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103412	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103422	Thank you for that, and thank you to the proposers for the opportunity to discuss nature and the marine environment in the Folketing today. Denmark's nature is basically under pressure. This applies both on land and at sea, so that is why we need to act politically to take care to develop the nature for which we have been given responsibility. The Øresund is a unique sea area, among others. as a result of the fact that trawling has been prohibited in the area since 1932. This ban has resulted in the seabed in the Sound not being destroyed by bottom trawls and therefore a number of different seabed types with different animals and plants associated with them have been developed. That there are so many different habitat types on the seabed also provides life and habitat for a wide range of fish species, and therefore the area is unique. That is why the Social Democracy was also concerned with the issue of dredging in Øresund, when we sat in government between 2011 and 2015. We changed, among other things. The law back in 2015, so that it was possible for the Minister to stop dredging in the Øresund, and we carried out a number of tightenings on the rules for the discharge of raw materials. Among other things: We created annual ceilings, we improved supervision, and we tightened the requirements for extraction. We also initiated a study on the consequences of dredging in nature, and this is the study that has already been referred to today. It is therefore on the basis of knowledge and initiatives of the former Socialist Government that we can take the debate today. The fact is, and the environmental studies carried out show that the previous extraction of raw materials has, as expected, had negative environmental impacts in the recovery areas. It's going to be okay, among other things. in addition to the fish life in the affected areas. At the same time, the analysis shows that the economic impact of a reduction in raw material recovery in Øresund will result in an additional annual cost for the construction sector of approx. 12.8 million kr., if you stop the dredging completely. This is an infinitely small part of the total turnover of the sector, as I said earlier. It is therefore difficult with the current knowledge base to find real economic or workplace arguments in order to continue the dredging in Øresund. Following on from this, I would like to call on the Minister to call for negotiations on this, in respect of the fact that, as far as I can understand from the Conservative People's Party and their environmental rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, there is in fact a majority in the Danish Parliament for a stop to dredging at the moment. Compared with the wording of the proposal and in particular the comments, the Social Democrats support the fact that it is being examined how a stop to dredging can lead to a better marine environment in the Øresund, but we believe that the authors of the comments on the proposal write the conclusion before the end of the study by arguing that the whole Øresund is protected as a UNESCO biosphere area in the highest category. We want to contribute to the development and protection of the marine environment by stopping or limiting dredging, but we must be careful to make legislation that makes sensible action impossible in the future. For example, it could be if the City of Copenhagen wants to develop or expand Copenhagen with fillings in Øresund, or it could be green and beneficial infrastructure initiatives in relation to Øresund, such as offshore wind turbines or an additional connection to Sweden. The Social Democratic Party cannot therefore support the concrete proposal, but we expect it to be, and that is also how I heard the Minister that, following the debate here today, we can be invited to real political discussions with a view to discussing and taking decisions on the future dredging in the Øresund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103811	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103815	Well, thank you for the positive indication about stopping the dredging. I just have to be absolutely sure that I have heard it right too, i.e. whether it is true that the Social Democrats are prepared, on the one hand, to stop dredging and other mining in Øresund and, on the other hand, to work towards an internationally protected natural area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103843	As things are at the moment, I find it difficult to see the economic workplace arguments for continuing with dredging, and that is why it is our position that we should discuss how to stop it, and I would urge the Minister to have a debate on this also out of respect for the fact that there is a majority in the Folketing, among other things. consisting of the Government Party of the Conservative People's Party, to stop dredging. In relation to whether to go all the way and make a real conservation, we must be absolutely sure what the conservation means for the activities we can do in the Øresund. I mean, I will not help to make a total peace, which means that in the future, for example. will not be able to make an extra connection to Sweden, or make a conservation, which means that you will not be able to make fillings like what we are currently seeing in connection with the development of Copenhagen. So we need to have a thorough discussion on how to improve the marine environment with a stop to dredging, but we should not make a conservation that means that other sensible measures cannot be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103942	Here you go, Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125103946	It is just a small follow-up question, and it is whether the Social Democratic Party also agrees that the marketing value and the tourism potential that will be in stopping the extraction of raw materials could in fact well outweigh the additional costs that will be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104007	I have, of course, read the comments on the proposal, and I believe that it is quite likely that this is the case, as the rapporteur says, and as the comments also state, it would therefore be a great economic advantage to do something to strengthen the marine environment. I don't know the calculation behind it, so I can't say in the affirmative whether that's exactly how it is. But it has to be said that as things stand at the moment, the economic consequences of limiting dredging are quite limited, whereas there could be some exciting potential for both tourist and nature to work with, for example. The Swedes and the municipalities around the Øresund to lift the natural and marine environment in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104049	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104053	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialists for their constructive approach. I'm fully committed to trying to take what we can get. When we set up a UNESCO park, it is, of course, because it is so unique a natural area, and it is true that that is where we want to go, but it is also clear that we are taking as much as we can get, and if what we can achieve is a broad consensus on is another form of conservation and, above all, a total ban on mining, which I agree with the Socialist rapporteur, is the most important thing, then we are very happy to take it, and then the resolution has had its effect. But what I wanted to ask was actually: is it not possible to do some kind of thing, can one say, to set up a park in which it has not completely ruled out the possibility of infrastructure planning as long as it does not affect nature? We know this from land where it can be done, even if there is a conservation, to build a bridge over if it is needed, or a tunnel underneath, or what do I know? Well, I guess that shouldn't be completely impossible. The reason why we want a park, on the other hand, is, of course, that with it we will have the full value, including in relation to tourism, fisheries and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104206	The minister. Christian Rabjerg Madsen rapporteur, I think, not the Minister! Sorry, it is quite true that it is a rapporteur and not a minister. Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104223	Thank you so much. It's flattering to be interviewed with the minister. Good! It is certainly possible to provide better protection without it coming across sensible and green investments in infrastructure and the like, and that is just the relationship we need to have examined. As to whether the resolution has had a positive effect, I would like to say a clear 'yes' to it. For I am hearing the Minister have a relatively constructive approach to this, I am also hearing the Conservative People's Party speak in favour of a stop to mining and, as I understand the Minister, we will now be invited to negotiations on the consequences of this extraction of raw materials, and there we will look at how we can be smarter in the future. I think that would be a fantastic product of a very long debate on the mining of raw materials in Øresund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104313	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104316	I would then like to ask the rapporteur who has not yet become a minister; there does not have to be a long time, but we can return to that question if we should ask the Minister together if he does not want to include this element, in other words, uncover different scenarios of how to make a park, because we are quite open to that too. It is possible that there can be other forms, and if there are many of us who ask for it, would the Minister not listen to us?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104344	Yes, I think we should try to aim for that, and it could possibly be in the form of a report. It would be an advantage if we had a better marine environment, for the sake of nature itself. This is very, very important, but there are also some potentials, as the rapporteur also mentioned, in the proposal, in relation to increased tourism and the like. So I would very much like to discuss that. It is just essential for the Social Democrats that we do not have legislation that restricts green infrastructure, offshore wind farms and the like in the future, but there is certainly no resistance to creating a good marine environment in the Sound. We have to work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104419	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104427	Thank you. When you read the motion for a resolution here from the Radical Left and look at the front page, it actually says that it is a question of examining the possibility of establishing a protected natural area in the Sound, and it may sound sympathetic at first. When you go back and read the comments, I would like to make a few comments on it. For there I and we in the Danish People's Party are very much on the same wavelength as the Minister. What I think is the problem is that we want to eliminate the extraction of raw materials. I know that there are some who believe that it is almost the rape of nature. It can also look very harsh, and it can also be on land, but I think there are some important points in relation to this point of stopping the dredging or extraction of raw materials. Copenhagen is developing a lot, and Nordsjælland is developing a lot, there is a lot of construction, and they obviously need the raw materials, otherwise they were not taken up at all where they were taken up. I myself have lived in North Zealand for many years and have lived very close to the gravel pit in Lynge, where there is now Europe's largest drive-in bio, I think it is, in some of it, while something else is still being used for mining. I have also lived very close to a gravel pit in Hørup in the old municipality of Slangerup, which today is called the municipality of Frederikssund, where gravel was also extracted and where on very small roads we had very many trucks. For the same reason, I think that when one speaks of extraction of raw materials, perhaps it is a question of finding the source of it as close to those who need to use it as possible, taking account of the environment. In the Øresund there is a special nature. Everyone agrees on this, and that is precisely because bottom trawls have been banned for many years. Now I don't remember the year, but it doesn't matter, because it's for a very long time that there hasn't been the trawl, and it gives a very unique nature at the bottom of the Øresund, and it gives a unique condition, and it's really good. But that in a very small area there should not be extraction of raw materials, we in the Danish People's Party have little difficulty in seeing. Because where is that supposed to come from? Should it come from the rest of Zealand, where it should then be transported in trucks? Is it going to come from anywhere else on the seabed where something is destroyed there? You can think about that. In fact, I now think that much of what the Minister has set in motion in relation to investigating something and where Enhedslisten obviously thinks it has already been examined is fine. It's fine that we kind of get a complete overview of what it looks like and what you can do. I think that's really good. But I would like to say that when you live in areas where there is a great deal of growth and where it is being built, you also know that you need raw materials, and it can't help anything, that every time you need something, you say that just it happens somewhere else than right here in my house, everything is good, and I feel a little like doing that in this area. I may feel a little like saying: it is true that we need gravel and that we need things for construction, but we just want it from somewhere else, because then it is nice where we live and it does not harm the environment. When I put it that way and it may sound a little harsh to some people's ears, it is because it is in a very small area that we went back in 2015 and made some restrictions and said that there must be a maximum extraction and it should then be on that basis we reject the proposal in the Danish People's Party. Then I would like to say that, in return, when the Minister comes up with this overview, and if there are any options that might be better or different in some way, without it bothering everyone else, I was about to say, are willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104842	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125104846	Let me start by thanking you for your last commitment. It might be ironic for both the Minister and Mrs Pia Adelsteen to say no to the motion for a resolution, which is about examining the possibilities of alternatives, and then to say that we would like to examine the possibilities of alternatives. But peace be to it. I am, in fact, most interested in the result, namely that we will have to look at this in depth, including the alternatives, and also what is of opportunity professionally, if you actually took the consequence and dropped sand and rattling. Because that is right, and I agree with Mrs Pia Adelsteen that it always has a cost and a consequence to extract raw materials. What is just the matter here is that it may be the finest portrait we have in Denmark. There are other places where the entire seabed has been broken up in advance and where there is no unique nature, unfortunately. It could be that you could take it there and sail it on. I'm not gonna be smarter than that because we're gonna be smarter than that. But the fact that we are destroying the opportunities for North Zealand to create unique natural areas that can attract tourists who can make business flourish and which also give small fishermen who are still away and live in North Zealand a chance, I simply do not understand that a party like the Danish People's Party can agree to as a starting point. And neither will you, if we can find any good alternatives, I hear. However, I have to say that I find it strange that we should vote against something that we agree with, namely examining it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105014	Now you always have to read the comments when you see a proposal. If I only read the first sentence on the front page to examine the possibilities and then said yes to it and then forgot to read the comments, that would not be good. I never do that with a bill from any government, I would say. I wouldn't dream of that. It is always in the small details you find, what can you say, that may not be what grows in your backyard. When I read the comments, I can see that it is clear that what is the problem in the Sound is sand sucking. I just do not agree with that, and we are not in the Danish People's Party. We also believe that we need those raw materials. And you just have to keep that in mind. That's one thing. The second point is that we could start asking whether we should ban trawling in all Danish waters, because then we would have a very good marine environment. I have no doubt about that and I actually get a little scared to say that there will be some who think it is a good idea. But understand me correctly: of course we must take care of the marine environment that is in the Øresund. Of course we do. But that one looked at 0.5%. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to accept the amendments proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which have been approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which have been approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and which have been approved by the
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105132	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105133	Now there should be no fuss in it, but the proposal today is that the Danish Parliament invites the government to investigate the possibility of establishing a protected natural area in the Øresund period. The fact that we then write in the comments that the current dredging is a problem and has been a problem and has smashed up until several fishing banks in the Øresund, I do not really think we can discuss, because it is a fact that it has, because it shows the studies that have already been made. So I think it is strange if we do not want to recognise that the dredging that has been done historically has actually posed a problem for nature, for the fish and therefore also for the people in the area who make a living from fishing and tourism. That must be the starting point. Then it is fair enough to say that we believe it has even greater costs elsewhere, but we cannot ignore the fact that it has had a cost and that it has been a problem for nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105227	I certainly do not neglect the fact that dredging has a cost, but it is just not the only place that is going on. It is not in Denmark. I do not know whether the rapporteur thinks that we should stop it everywhere or whether we should remove all gravel pits on land, because it also has a cost on land. My point is that when there is an Environmental Protection Agency making some assessments based on the facts that are in the various areas and saying that they well believe that one can make raw materials extraction in that area in a limited amount, then I actually think there have been some professionals sitting and judging it in a proper way. It is not a question of neglecting the environment or anything, but of saying that we trust it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105309	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105311	I am pleased if the rapporteur trusts the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's assessments, because on the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's own website there is clear evidence of the harmful effects of dredging on fish life in Øresund. This is among other things. from DTU Aqua, and this shows that although the small areas are very small, the rapporteur and the Minister are absolutely right about this, they are very important areas for fish stocks in particular. Because this is where they breed, and this is where they find a very large part of their food. Thus, the food base for the fish is in those areas which are also attractive for dredging. That is why it is relevant to focus very strongly on this issue, because it is well documented that it is a very big problem. And then there are other sea areas which have just been trawled into pieces, where raw materials could instead be retrieved. But do I understand the rapporteur's view that we are looking together at the documentation which the Minister for the Environment is now gathering and which is already there in order to find out whether the extraction of raw materials could be moved to another place to ensure this unique preservation of the Øresund?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105412	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105413	Yeah, I guess that's pretty close to what Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding hears me say. I find it hard to see that it could be anywhere else. But if there are other places that are better suited, then peace be with it. I don't want to make an assessment of that. I think the Danish Environmental Protection Agency should do just that, and maybe you can have an overall assessment. But I also believe that people must be clearly taken into account. If it is something about having to drive 100 trucks from South Zealand up to Copenhagen every day on some small roads, then I would be very much against it because it will bother much more people and much more animals and much more nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105453	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105455	Well, I definitely think we should map that out. And thanks for the outstretched hand and the opening for looking at this. I think it's really positive if a whole Parliament could be behind this, that we should look critically at this dredging and find out if there are any other options. In relation to trawls, just because the rapporteur just mentioned it, I think it is worth noting that we have had a trawl ban for 80 years. We have such healthy fish stocks, we have a fantastic cod stock with a broad age composition, unlike all our other seas. We have an Kattegat that has almost been emptied of cod. Doesn't it give any reflections when you read about this sea area, compared to looking at trawl fishing elsewhere? For that is the reason for the fishermen of the future that we are destroying by trawling today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105538	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105540	I think I will leave it to our Fisheries rapporteur to comment on that, because I know nothing about it. It would probably be disastrous if I were to tell you what the Danish People's Party is supposed to mean in an area that I haven't gotten into at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105555	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105604	Thank you, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, for giving us the opportunity to discuss the Øresund in this Chamber today. I can begin by saying that the Left is going to vote against this resolution, but I would also say that we in the Left are in fact entirely in agreement with the intention set out by the Radical Left in the resolution. In other words, we fully agree that the Øresund contains fantastic and conservationable natural values and that you have to take care of those natural values. We have a responsibility both to look after areas of eelgrass, sandbanks and large fish stocks, etc., and to manage nature in the Øresund in a sustainable way. At the same time, as I said, we are also using areas in the Øresund for the extraction of raw materials, which has been discussed so far. It has been done for decades, and that is because the extraction of raw materials in the Øresund is also one of the reasons for this. helps to support urban development and growth in this metropolitan area. You can see that when you go through Copenhagen, that is how it develops. I would say that sometimes, when I come to Copenhagen, I actually think that almost every week you can see that growth and expansion are taking place and new construction projects are being created. So there is also one consideration that we need to take into account. We must ensure that we take account of the developments that are also taking place here in the capital, which the Danes also want and want, and that is where we have a job to do to ensure that this development takes place not only sustainably, but also in accordance with the nature around us. It is important, therefore, that we assess what is sustainable and not sustainable, and we do so every time raw materials are extracted in the Øresund. Indeed, both environmental studies and, for that matter, impact assessments must be carried out before authorisation for recovery of raw materials is granted. At the same time, we must consider carefully what alternatives there are. And that is why it is among other things. The Commission has examined the possibilities of extracting raw materials elsewhere. In this context, it is important that we do not just ban the extraction of raw materials somewhere and then perhaps move it somewhere else where it might have more environmental consequences. So our decisions must be based on really good professional knowledge. Finally, I also need to say to the parties, for general information, that I have promised to greet Conservatives and to say that they will also vote against this resolution. Because we have a line in the government and, as previous rapporteurs have also said, there is a majority against this resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105917	We thank the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125105923	Thank you very much. I would like to start by saying a great deal of thanks to the Radical Left for putting forward this proposal, because it really is an excellent proposal, and it is so good that I am really sorry not to have been invited to be a proposer, but then it is good that I can declare our full support for the proposal here from the platform. For as we have already mentioned a few times during the debate, Øresund is a unique natural area; we find here unique natural values: we see over 100 species of fish, we see stocks of seals, we see dolphins, we see porpoises, and in addition it is an important bird area. And this natural wealth is due to several conditions. This is due to a varied salinity, which is due to marked differences in depth conditions, and this is because we find everything on the bottom from rocky coasts to stone reefs, to sand and soft mud floors. In addition, and perhaps most importantly, it is due to the fact that there has been a ban on trawl fishing for 80 years, and this should really be thoughtful. The Øresund can rightly function as such a kind of baseline or reference point, because when we look at other sea areas, when we see how much we have destroyed when we see what might have been of wealth within, for example, It is important to consider how destructive trawling really is. I also think it is important in this debate to mention that the Øresund is also important for the other marine areas, for example. Because about half of the cod stocks we see in Kattegat and Skagerrak come from the Øresund, so it is simply such a gold mine, also for fishing that spreads across the other sea areas. I think that is a very, very important point too. However, as it is today, the Øresund is not sufficiently protected, and it seems absolutely absurd that, when we have a sea area that is also completely unique in international terms, it is out there that we get our raw materials. Now the Minister made a great deal of mention of the fact that it was 0.5%. of the area, understood in the sense that it is almost unnoticeable that it is vanishingly small and almost indifferent. But that's not true. There is extensive documentation that tells us how devastating it is that we extract raw materials from the Øresund, which shows that we are precisely extracting raw materials from some of the areas where fish spawn, that is, their breeding areas, from the areas where their food base is created, so for the whole ecosystem, the areas where we bring sand and gravel up are just really, really important. So an essential first step to ensure the necessary protection of the Øresund will be to stop extracting raw materials, simply forbid dredging in the Øresund. It is also here where I hear that there is a rapprochement from both the government, but also from the Danish People's Party in terms of getting started on that work now, looking at alternatives, measuring how many trucks should drive where, if we identify alternative areas for mining, and I think that is very positive, and so I would say that with the Radicals' proposal today we have really taken a very significant step in the right direction to protect some of our most valuable marine nature, and it is hard not to rejoice very much about it. So I will do so and I shall look forward to the further examination of the committee. It is therefore my hope, fully in line with the Radicals, that we can go further in the future and ensure that Øresund becomes a genuinely natural-protected area, even in an international category.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125110340	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, who is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125110351	Thank you. And thank you to the Radical Left for presenting the motion for a resolution here, which is of course very relevant and which brings the Folketing into a debate on nature. It is always nice for a nature and environmental rapporteur, as I am. The Øresund has always been essential to Danish society, not least after 1429 when Erik of Pommern introduced the very famous Øresund customs duties and thus also created a basis for centuries of growth and prosperity in Denmark, but also the basis for many of the iconic buildings that today characterize our capital. Today most people, of course especially the Zealanders, associate the Sound with things like winter bathing and long walks along the water and generally with fantastic and lovely natural experiences. Therefore, it is of course also very relevant, as I also started by saying, to discuss how we protect and preserve the Øresund, so that the Danes can also enjoy the health of the future. Just as the Øresund of 500-600 years ago played a role in building the Copenhagen we know today and love very much, it also now plays a major role in building the Copenhagen of the future. It is in Øresund that most of the raw materials used in the construction of new residential areas, new metro lines, roads, hospitals, kindergartens, nursing homes etc. are recovered. It is essential for construction to have easy access to the building materials they need. Yes, it means a very geographically limited impact on the marine environment in the Øresund, but it must be weighed against the alternative. If we protect the Øresund and ban mining, it will mean a more expensive expansion of the important infrastructure and the construction of new homes, etc., which Copenhagen is crying out for in these times. Moreover, this would mean, and perhaps even more importantly, that raw materials should be transported over considerably longer distances and probably over land, which would also have a negative impact on the environment. Of course, we must have a certain hand in dealing with the extraction of raw materials, also in the Øresund, and that is among other things. That is why, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, we tightened up the rules a few years ago in order to obtain authorisation, and we have, after all, tightened up the supervision of the companies responsible for recovery. However, it will have major consequences for the metropolitan area if we go and ban the important raw materials in the Øresund region right now, and that is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the Radical Left resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125110716	Sir. Martin Lidegaard for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125110726	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach to put the Øresund into a historical context. It also visualised for me the potential of thinking about a conservation or, at least, peacemaking of the area together with Kings Nordsjælland, the new, large national park, and the potential for business, liberal industrial development in North Zealand for both the fishing and tourism industry, etc. I got all turned on by the tank and I can hear that it's sir. Carsten Bach, too. That is why I would just like to make sure that in what the rapporteur said here, too, if we can now find out in the coming months that there are good alternatives to sand-sucking in the Sound, then of course the Liberal Alliance will also be involved in stopping the sand-sucking in any case, so that we can leave nature to itself, because it is so unique in the Øresund area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125110817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125110819	I should certainly not be jealous of the fact that sand sucking must take place in precisely that area of the Øresund. I am a great natural lover, and so am I as far as Øresund is concerned. Therefore, if it turns out that we can find relevant alternatives, it is something on which the Liberal Alliance is also willing to engage in some discussions. On the other hand, I would say that if you look at those alternatives, you can see that they will often also have consequences for the environment, but only somewhere else. If, for example, you're gonna have to... I do not know where raw materials can be found in Sjælland, but it will have some impact on the environment in those areas, and it will also have some impact on the environment that lorries will have to transport the raw materials that will then be recovered, for example. in Central Zealand, into the metropolitan area. So it has to be weighed on a scale, what the consequences are for the environment and nature in the Øresund, versus what the consequences will be for the alternative location where you can find these specific raw materials.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125110929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125110930	It makes sense. I am so of the opinion that it is difficult to find a place throughout Denmark where it does more damage than in Øresund at the moment. But I very much hope that we can find some other sea areas where trawling has been carried out and where, it can be said, the banks have unfortunately been destroyed, so that it will do less damage there and where it can still be transported away per year. boat, but just a few miles further away. But the investigation will show that. It is a good thing to have an ally in the government, and so I would just like to ask: does the Liberal Alliance also agree that it would actually be good to clarify this by the summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111005	As a follow-up to my answer before, it is, of course, a trade-off between words that are often used in this same context • people and the environment, because there is also an impact on people when we talk about land transport, air pollution, etc. and so on, and it's gonna have to weigh quite heavily on this issue. So you can't be one-sided, like Mr. Simpson. Martin Lidegaard is going to look at where the damage to nature is worst, if I may say so; you also have to have the human angle into it. As I said before, I am very much in favour of discussing this and looking at the results of the studies that have been started, and if we can come up with a friendly solution where dredging is carried out somewhere else and it does not have any major environmental consequences than what we are seeing today, then I would not zealously insist that it should be
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111059	With this, we thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then we move on to Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111109	In these days two years ago, I proudly went out and presented the alternative nature package. I have worked with it a great deal, and if you look at it, you will see that our proposal No. 10 is about us wanting to develop and protect eight areas in Denmark as marine protection areas. Limfjorden is one of them plus areas with rock reefs in the North Sea, central Kattegat, Lillebælt, Samsø Bælt, the South Funen archipelago, Øresund, Bornholm's rocky coast and the Icefjord. We just chose to say that you should start with Øresund, Kattegat, Lillebælt and Samsø Bælt. That is why I am extremely pleased with the proposal from the Radicals today, and we can fully support it. It is also very exciting that there is a broader consensus in this House about examining what needs to be done so that we can come closer to protection. So that's why it's a day of joy. And when we look at these studies, which show that this is actually quite a small extra amount compared to the total cost of the building, they are 12.8 million. kr. extra for the construction, if you move this mining elsewhere, you'll find a small post. So there are great potentials in this proposal, and thanks to Radicals for having put it forward. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111248	Thanks to the alternative. Then we have reached the SF rapporteur, Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111256	First of all, I would like to thank the Radicals for tabling the motion for a resolution. We have worked together on this matter before, and you can count on us to continue to do so. Of course, the SF backs both to stop the dredging in the Sound and to work towards the Øresund becoming an internationally protected marine area in the interests of the region's particularly rich plant and animal life, the coastal fishing industry and the tourism industry. It is very incomprehensible to me at the moment that the government insists on continuing the dredging, but I am glad that there is a little momentum in it and that other options are being explored. Because it is the case that experts and organisations and the municipalities of northern Zealand and indeed a large number of Øresund municipalities have distanced themselves from dredging, which harms the marine environment, wildlife and fishing. Yes, even our neighbouring country Sweden has made a sharp criticism that Denmark is just continuing. Sweden has dropped the harmful practice many years ago, so it is time for Denmark to follow. Sand sucking has destroyed the seabed for decades and leaves deep holes with no oxygen. The Øresund is a uniquely rich biological area, as several have also described, given its location in a densely populated area with the second largest city in the Nordic region, Copenhagen, and the seventh largest city, Malmö. It's pretty special. An oat reserve can ensure that in the future we do not put it at risk as those very cities are rapidly developing and growing. In the Øresund there are everything from shallow bays and coves with eelgrass and seagrass over soft mud floors to rock reefs and rocky shores filled with algae. It provides good and diverse habitats for the 140 different species of fish of health and all the rare animal communities. The flood of life under the waves helps to keep the water clean, while also attracting a rich bird's life and is home to seals. It is unique that we have so beautiful a nature in the sea close to our cities and beaches. By giving the Øresund status of the oat reserve, we can create the framework for developing and branding the Øresund region as a blue region. There is great potential for this in terms of settlement and tourism in a recreational and attractive area. There is also a potential for commercial fishing when we focus on gentle and sustainable fishing in an area with a focus on protected marine environment. Let us turn to the Swedish Government and propose an agreement to make Øresund an internationally protected marine area. I see that the minister is shaking his head. I don't know what he has with the Swedes, but I still think it's a good idea. In practice, this will mean an end to the extraction of raw materials in the Danish area, since, as I said, mining is already prohibited in the Swedish part. The reservation must then be communicated to the EU and Baltic Sea cooperation in HELCOM. At least it's SF's dream. There are several gains in making Øresund a protected natural area. This will further improve water quality. It has already been greatly improved since the 1970s, as it was called then, as a result of the treatment of urban waste water, but water quality does not yet meet the environmental objectives. The cleaning of overflows from sewage treatment plants under the monster regulation and extra attention to agricultural pollution must be ensured. It will also ensure an undisturbed seabed and more biodiversity. The main reason for the great biodiversity in the Øresund is, of course, the ban, as others have also mentioned, on bottom-drawn fishing gear, i.e. trawls, since the 1930s, when it was introduced not to protect the marine environment, but to ensure the high level of shipping in the area. The only activity that today seriously damages the seabed in the Sound is mining. All other fishing activities are carried out with gentle fishing gear by inshore fishermen. And then it will attract more tourists and anglers. The Copenhagen and Øresund regions will be able to brand themselves as neighbours to the only international reserves of oats in an industrialised country. So in the SF we are ready to vote in favour of the proposal as it stands, but we are also willing to see whether we can try to concentrate on a report which, if nothing else, points in the right direction. Thank you to the Radicals for making the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111745	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111748	It's just a question. Mrs Trine Torp says that dredging destroys the seabed, and nobody disputes that. But will SF stop all dredging, that is, in Danish waters? That is one question. The second question is: since the municipalities of North Zealand believe that it would be very good to stop dredging up in Øresund, have the municipalities of North Zealand also come up with an alternative solution to where to get the raw materials?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111819	Well, you could say that we don't want to stop dredging in general. It has also been mentioned by several here that there are, in fact, marine areas which have already been destroyed, i.e. where the seabed has been destroyed by, among others. bottom trawls. The sand and raw materials could be picked up appropriately from those places. It can be said that what is, after all, the reason why we are not doing it, as I hear it, is that there is more to it and that there will therefore be additional costs. I do not think that is a reasonable reason why we should continue to suck sand where we do. One might say that if you had a proper planning for the sea, you would also know what kind of areas it would be most appropriate to extract the sand from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111904	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125111905	But as I understand it, I think there may not be any planning for the sea, but at least there are places where it is more obvious to get raw materials up than others. That is also where we are seeking, and then there will be some approval for mining, but that is another matter. I think it is a little easy just to say that we are going to stop it somewhere, knowing that we are going to use the raw materials, without, by the way, saying where the hell else we are going to get them. That's how I think it works. I believe that all people who live near a place where there is extraction of raw materials feel affected by it. It would be nice for citizens living near a gravel pit on land to say: Now we just stop it here, let us find another place. But where the hell are we gonna find those resources? And that is actually what may perhaps be my appeal in relation to these motions for resolutions, or proposals to stop the extraction of raw materials, so that you do not think about the fact that you are a consumer of it yourself in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112014	But it is quite clear that the balance must be struck between the need for raw materials and the need for environmental protection. What I am just appealing to is that we seriously think about alternatives to the Øresund and work towards the international protection that I would like to see in this area. It has also been mentioned in the past how infinitely small a part of what it is. You can use that as an argument not to stop it, but you could also use it as an argument that it was easy to find another place, since it is so relatively small an area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112045	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp and then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr Torp. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112050	Thank you very much. May I not, first of all, thank all the parties and the Minister for the consideration of our resolution, which, to put it bluntly, became considerably more positive than I had thought, among other things. against the background of what the Minister was saying a few months ago about the idea of stopping dredging in Øresund. And perhaps you have to have been at Christiansborg for many years to understand the logic of this case. We have therefore put forward a proposal to investigate the possibility of stopping the extraction of raw materials and finding some form of conservation or something else. It is rejected by a majority in the Folketing, but at the same time a majority is ready to examine the possibilities of stopping the extraction of raw materials in the Øresund. But that's the logic, and the logic, too, I would venture to claim with my experience with this house that when something like this happens, it's because the case moves and we can actually hope that the extraction of raw materials in the Øresund within a foreseeable timeframe will be history. I shall come back to why I think so, but I am quite convinced that we can bring the parties in the Folketing together in a report that says that we will follow the Minister's investigation, which he has promised, and that by summer we will try to make political decisions in this area with the various reservations that have of course been taken from different sides. Why is this important? It is for two reasons. Firstly, it is because of nature, and secondly because of the people who live in and around the Sound, there are of course not so many people living in Nature, because I know no other places in Danish waters where we have had a total stop to trawl since 1932 and therefore there is no seabed anywhere else that is more untouched, and no place where flora and fish have been able to breed and reproduce more naturally, and where the whole food chain and ecosystem are therefore intact in a completely different way. That is also why this is interesting and why making Øresund a national park still has our interest, even though it may only become a stop to the extraction of raw materials in the first place. But it is also because of the people who live around the Øresund, because I am convinced that the relatively small additional cost we will bring to the contractors is approx. 12-13 million kr. And that is why there are not many good arguments against it for me. Of course we need to find good alternatives. I agree with the Minister and with all sorts of others. I am convinced that those alternatives exist, and that has also been the subject of studies. But it is fine if we want to put it together in a package, as it were, from which we can then take some political decisions. To the various parties, I would like to say the following: Social democracy wants to ban dredging here and now. We'd like that, too. So if the minister on top of this good, constructive debate when he has got some sleep on it should think: well, why not actually appear as the industrious, strong minister who really wants the environment well? I just want him to know that I actually think there's a majority in the parliament that's in it. And it is not every day that you get the chance as Minister for the Environment to really be able to move. So this is a unique offer to the Minister for the Environment. But okay, if we can at least just agree to meet before the summer break and make the decision, then it's okay with the Radical Left too. Well, at least we've moved the case. The Danish People's Party declares itself open to becoming a member if there are any good alternatives. We appreciate that. Enhedslisten og Alternativet og SF backs up wholeheartedly, and thank you very much for that. And yes, we could have invited a wider audience to do so, and I would certainly like to join in fighting for it in a wider circle. The Liberal Alliance, which I hope I am not insulting by saying that they have not made themselves strongly felt on the natural front, at least not, as I have seen and are concerned with liberal legislation, see opportunities here too, even with such a historical horizon. It is therefore something that pleases a historian such as myself; I have to say that frankly, which is why I hope that we can get the Liberal Alliance to join in a large, broad majority which will be able to proceed on this matter. So, overall, thank you for that. We will try to draft a report which summarises the debate and takes us a big step further before the summer break. And we hope that both the government and the other parties will see themselves in that. This has certainly not been a vain debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112611	Yes, we have been back at Erik of Pomerania, etc., but it still gave rise to a question from Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112614	Thank you very much, sir. Martin Lidegaard for having noticed the historical perspective in my rapporteur's speech. However, I do not think it is true that the Liberal Alliance has not had nature on the agenda and focus on what I think we have actually had a lot of focus on it. Very recently, together with the other government parties and the Danish People's Party, we have also put our plan rather than laying the untouched forest on state land • part of a natural package made by the blue parties. But Mr. Martin Lidegaard talks a lot about the people who live in and around Øresund. Yes, there may not be so many people living in the Øresund, but there are fish and tang fleas and other things, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard would very much like to take account of. But what about those people who do not have a sea view of the Øresund, some of the commuters who are stuck on the motorways into Copenhagen in the morning, who will be bothered by further traffic, if we are to move this mining somewhere else, to Central Zealand or other, when there is a much larger truck transport to the metropolitan area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112725	Now it was not for insulting the Liberal Alliance in any way. It is also stated in the Bible that every converted sin, etc. one should be particularly pleased about, so it is nice that the Liberal Alliance is now discussing a great scientific experience. We see this as part of the new pattern and we very much welcome it without reservation. Well, it makes sense to investigate alternatives. One of the things we are concerned with is, as I said, could you imagine dredging in other sea areas? If we are to have the raw materials on a boat and sailed into Copenhagen, for example, the difference is natural, climatewise, to sail them 20 km or 50 km or 100 km not the largest. Surely that would be the best thing. Having said that, I would like to say that we also have examples of gravel gravels on land, where the extraction itself is far from housing, where the transport is not by difficult roads, where it bothers people who are commuting in the morning or in the afternoon, but is quite unweekly, and where the gravel pits can subsequently turn into fine nature areas with lakes and fishing and even a drive-in bio, as we have heard from the Danish People's Party, that is, where there are other possibilities for restoring nature afterwards. That is also an important consideration. One of the things that makes us preoccupied with the Øresund is that what has happened seems to be irreparable. In any case, we do not know how many generations it will take, and I think we should also take that in here. We cannot avoid influencing nature, but there is a slight difference in whether we are doing something that is irreparable or whether we are doing something that we can actually restore in a generation perspective. It also makes a difference to us. And yes, we are also concerned with species other than man. It is because, in the end, man is also dependent on nature and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112915	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125112916	Thank you. I am very pleased that Mr. Martin Lidegaard actually enters into the dialogue on alternatives, that is to say where these raw materials will come from, and is also concrete, and I am also glad that he says that people are actually being taken into account in this context, in other words some of the people who will be affected if the extraction of raw materials is to be moved somewhere on Zealand. These are some of the people who then may not live around the Sound, but who will have to be bothered by this traffic. I am pleased about that, because I know that the Radical Left is also very concerned about particle pollution in the metropolitan area and so on. Will Mr. Martin Lidegaard did not admit that if we, for example, were to do so. is going to find these raw materials on Zealand, so will increased particle contamination in the metropolitan area if the transport is to be by truck from Zealand into the capital?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113009	In other words, it is clear that if you have to get it onto trucks instead, everything else will have a higher level of air pollution than if you can transport it per car. boat. That is also why we are concerned, if I may say so, with maritime alternatives. And, of course, you can get into a difficult balance, and that is why it is not uninteresting what we are talking about with regard to CO2 But again we are dealing with a natural area where the damage that has been done is irreparable and we do not get the chance to ever restore it for future generations of Danes. Now I can hear that, sir. Carsten Bach is trying to make it sound like the people I'm trying to accommodate here are the 50-100 people with an Øresund view. To be honest, I'm not sure they can see the big difference. No, the people I would like to take care of are all the people who live off the Sound, the fishermen, the tourism industry, who offer tours where you can come out and look at dolphins, and all the people who are happy to come out and fish a New Year's Storsk etc. etc. These are the ones I think we should think about here, from a human point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113111	The next question is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113113	I think I'm gonna continue a little along the same lines as Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach. I also stumbled a little over the fact that the rapporteur said that there is the particular nature around the Øresund, but that the people living around the Øresund are also taken into account. Will there then be some motion for a resolution from the Radical Left which takes account of the people who live around a gravel pit on land? I simply do not understand that it is only in one particular area that some people should be taken into account. It's not the only place that's mining. There are very many places in Danish nature, both underwater and on land. There are people everywhere, and there are many considerations to be taken into account. And I don't know what's worse: that you can see that there's a boat on the water that sucks up some sand which, by the way, doesn't bother anyone or that you have 100 trucks on your way. Well, I know what I think is worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113221	Fortunately, in order to be allowed to extract raw materials in the Kingdom of Denmark, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has to be sought for approval or the municipality and environmental tests are carried out, including noise nuisances and consequences for people who live close to it, etc. And we can say calmly that every extraction of raw materials in Denmark has always been and is very much concerned with the fact that there is no impact on people and the environment to the extent that it is possible at all. And therefore, the vast majority of gravel gravels in Denmark will also be conveniently far away from human settlements. That is why I think it is a slightly artificial contradiction that is being put forward here. Well, we don't want to bother anyone. Now we just have the certainty that in Øresund there is a unique area for Denmark. And then, despite the fact that environmental assessments have been carried out, there is sucking sand, by the way, more than you have to. It has completely destroyed the fish stocks on those banks, which means something to the dolphin population, but also means that the livelihoods of a number of fishermen are taken out of their mouths. When you discover it, I just have the instinctive approach to it, that this is something you have to respond to. You shouldn't just say, well, that's too bad. And that is not contrary to the fact that we also want a very restrictive practice when it comes to gravel pits and noise nuisances in connection with gravel pits on land. I don't see that at all. It's the same kind of approach here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113350	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113351	I just need to get it right. It is true that there is a unique nature. The reason I reacted was because the rapporteur said that you have also tabled the proposal on the basis of the people living around the Sound and who live on it, it has been deepened. But there are also people elsewhere in Denmark who make a living from fishing etc. etc., although there are also mining and quarrying. Is it all the places we have to close, or is it only the Øresund, because there is also a special nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113427-2	It matters to us that the Øresund is the only waters in Denmark where there has been no trawling since 1932 and therefore it is a unique natural area. It is also clear from the motion for a resolution that the special mixture of brackish water and salt water and a number of other factors make it a unique area. There is nothing like it; there is nothing more untouched than that particular area. So yes, I think that the Øresund is something special natural when we talk sea areas in Denmark. But, of course, I agree that if there are similar nature protection interests elsewhere in the country, we will be equally vigilant. Of course we will. The problem, then, is that there are also areas that have already been destroyed because there has been too much trawling. And the question is whether there are any areas where extracting raw materials from the Øresund will not have the same natural consequences. That's what's interesting. One might actually ask oneself why it has taken so long to deal with that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113527	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113529	Thank you. I think we may be some who are somewhat provoked by the rapporteur's way of communicating. I feel like you might just want to move the problem. The rapporteur said that we will, of course, take care of the Øresund. We all will, including those who live at the Øresund. However, as Mrs Pia Adelsteen also mentioned, there are also people living elsewhere that we need to be careful of. I would like to ask Mr. Martin Lidegaard directly: Could Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned where you'd have to recover these raw materials if you were to stop with the Øresund dredging?
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113620	There are already a large number of gravel graves in Denmark and the extraction of raw materials in different places, but I am not going to make myself an expert on that. I'm not an expert on that. That is why it makes good sense that we are now examining where it will be retrieved. I am also not aware of what construction plans the City of Copenhagen has for the next 10-20 years. What I am aware of and it has nothing to do with, if I may say so, the people who live in North Zealand are that it is a unique natural area that we have in the Sound and that it has consequences for the people who live in North Zealand, but indeed also for the whole kingdom. Because I think there is a huge perspective in attracting tourists to Denmark, which could also have the opportunity to benefit from this. That is something like that, for example. Dolphins. Tourists on cruise ships etc. Love dolphins. It may be a rather silly example, but it's just to say that there's also a bigger perspective in this than just North Zealand. I can hear what the rapporteur is looking for, and I shall not hide the fact that I am elected in North Zealand, that I am fond of North Zealand, and that I was born in North Zealand. However, as the motion for a resolution shows, this is something that should take us into account, because the Øresund is a unique natural area. Moreover, I can tell you that I have presented this motion for a resolution following a resolution by the National Assembly of the whole of the Radical Left, whose members live in all kinds of places in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113750	For the record, I have to say that this is Mrs Pia Adelsteen and not Adelskov. Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113755	Thank you. Well, what we saw in that answer was that Mr. Martin Lidegaard prefers to extract the raw materials from the gravel pits, as I understand it. But again, Mr. Martin Lidegaard also said that we would like to take other environmental considerations too, that we should also take care of air pollution and, for that matter, the long transport distances that this might lead to. Sir. Martin Lidegaard also said that, after all, it would perhaps be best for the raw material needed in Copenhagen to be transported per year. ship. But there is also an environmental impact if you are to retrieve it from, let's say Aabenraa, and transport it by ship from the port of Aabenraa to Copenhagen. So I hope a little that the rapporteur of the Radicals can confirm that we also have to take these matters into account so that we do not just move the problem to somewhere else in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113902	Yeah, that's right. You need more energy and there will be a larger discharge if you are to transport a load of gravel on boat 100 km instead of 20 km, but there we are in something that is relatively marginal. It is simply because maritime transport is very, very efficient, also in terms of climate, and therefore costs will be far, far less than if transport is to take place on the road. That is why I hope that some of the things the Minister and the Ministry and the Board will look at are, if I may say so, other maritime ways to go. It is true that all sea transport is not in fact comparable to land transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113941	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125113943	Now I got curious. So I have been looking at the Ministry's own mining card, and I just want to hear the rapporteur if that is not true. I can at least see here that common areas have been identified, that is potential areas, down in the Bay of Fakse and also south of Møn. This means that we do not need to sail all the way over from Aabenraa in order to use raw materials in the Copenhagen area. We can find areas that are closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125114015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125114015-2	I can now confirm that and thank you for the question from the Alternative. This confirms the fact that it could actually be that there could be better opportunities by waterway, which can both spare the unique nature of the Øresund, which is socio-economicly affordable and which will not disturb nature significantly elsewhere. I hope that will be the conclusion, and I think that is also a good outcome to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125114043	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. We thank the rapporteur. That concludes the debate. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180125114104	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 26 January 2018, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
