ParlaMint-DK_20180406100040	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406100044	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 10 April 2018. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406100113	Thank you, President. I have been looking forward to this debate where together we shall try to take the temperature of democracy right these days. But first, I would like to explain why the alternative has asked the Prime Minister the following question: what does the Prime Minister think it is necessary to do to restore the citizens' confidence in the elected representatives at Christiansborg and to increase the political and democratic commitment of the people? The reason why we put this question to the Prime Minister by the Alternative is mainly two things. One is that we can see that there are fewer and fewer Danes who want to be members of a political party. We're down to 4%. of the people who think it makes sense to be a member of a political party. And of those who are actually members of a party, fewer and fewer people want to take an active part in political work within the parties and stand for elected positions. And those who then finally do so, and who also run as candidates for parliament, are becoming more and more alike across the political parties. This means that they have the same educational background and the same social references. Two parties in here who are actually doing a very good job in terms of getting a wider range among their candidates and thus also the people who are elected are the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten. I mean, there is a much greater diversity in the two parties, which I think is really, really good. But there are few who want to be a member of a political party. The second point is that we can see that there is a growing gap of confidence between us elected by the people. We're at the very low end of the trust polls. The two things combined, that is to say, the fact that you can actually see the formation of what almost resembles a political class of this kind, and so that there is a gap of trust between the citizens and the elected representatives, we think that is a poisonous cocktail for a healthy democracy. We have deliberately chosen not to make a proposal for adoption because we hope that this debate can be both curious and open. At any rate, we are very curious about what you think in the other parties, first and foremost the Prime Minister. So, what kind of discussions do you have within the other parties about how you think democracy is working today and how we can make it more engaging and more meaningful? So I look forward very much to having this debate. And personally, I look forward to hearing the Prime Minister very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406100402	Thank you. And then it's the PM for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406100410	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the alternative for putting forward this question, which addresses a very important subject, an issue which is also under constant discussion: trust in the elected representatives, democratic development, this is an important debate. And that is not least at a time when democracy is under pressure in several places, even in countries close to us where democracy is still young. I still remember a morning in October 28 years ago, when I had the sudden idea to call Sólrun and ask if she didn't want to jump into our old Volvo and take a trip south to Berlin. It wasn't to watch football or go to shops, but it was to experience Germany's reunification at Brandenburger Tor. And we took the ferry back and forth, punched in on the trip via Rostock in the GDR. I still have my passport and stamped out the next day from the Bundesrepublik Deutchland. We just made it to midnight. It was an amazing experience, which is actually only 28 years old. When I mention it, it is really in order to give this debate a perspective as well. Until I was in my mid-20s, half of Europe was still brutal dictatorships; countries where people were oppressed built walls, not to prevent anyone from entering, but to prevent people from coming out, to choose freedom and democracy. Fortunately, that is no longer the case. However, the fact that it was so few years ago is in itself evidence that we cannot take for granted democracy and civil rights and a functioning rule of law. We see that all over the world, we see it in Europe too, and we have to bear that in mind, even when we discuss things at home. I fully agree that confidence in Danish politicians is low when it is measured against other groups. But that does not shake the fact that we have a vibrant and strong democracy which is among the most firmly established in the world. The Danes are the people of the European Union who are most satisfied with how their democracy works. And trust in the Folketing is among the highest in the EU and higher today than in for example. 2001 and 2013. Does that mean we don't have a problem? No, it doesn't. Of course, the problems of other countries should not be a shadow for our own, and it is serious when many voters do not trust politicians and political parties. And we can quickly blame each other or anyone else, but I think we should use the debate when it has come here today to look inwards and ask ourselves whether we are sufficiently involved in creating a positive picture of politics and whether we are encouraging people, not least young people, to engage. I think that's what you call a rhetorical question. I think most people think there's plenty of room for improvement. I think so too, and I would like to take my share of responsibility. Then the question is what to do. And that is the question raised by Mr. Uffe Elbæk and Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. I do not think that is the case. Firstly, we must ensure that the political debate is taken into account. On the one hand, there is a need for the big visions about how Denmark and the world should look in the long term. Here the alternative itself has identified itself with the proposal for a 30-hour working week and the idea of a seven-fold increase in development aid. kr. a year or 16 new super hospitals every year. And it's fine, that is, with big visions. On the other hand, we must not lose ground because trust is also about trust that elected representatives can solve the very specific social problems: parallel societies, cancer treatment, crime, children who are not given a proper chance. So we're kind of gonna have to bring both. Above all, however, we must stay too good to offer easy-to-use solutions to complex problems, and that applies to all of us. Of course we must challenge what exists, we must cut down on the arguments, otherwise there will be no change, and otherwise we will not be able to see the differences either. But I think we should be careful to claim that problems that we have been wobbling with for decades can be solved with a fingertips. It is to downgrade the population and it will not benefit confidence if we get a picture of the fact that big, heavy problems are easy to solve and they are not, and then they will not be solved, and then we disappoint expectations. This then leads me to a different perspective: the fact that we probably tend to distort the image of reality, both consciously and unconsciously. Maybe sometimes we're a little too good to look at the world with either red, blue or green glasses... maybe special when there's a reporter nearby... and it doesn't really turn red, blue or green. Then it will be all black and white, unavoidably, and it has probably always been that way, in the sense that Christiansborg is a political battleground, and that the word is our sword, and that we are elected on a mandate. But the truth is that the world is not only red or blue or black or white, it is full of nuances, and we need to get them forward. Just to exemplify it: One of the areas where the nuances regularly disappear is in the climate area. When you listen to the debate, you can get the impression that my party is pursuing a coal-black policy, that the Left lives on another planet, even though the whole point is that we only have one planet for sharing. But the fact is that Denmark has had left-wing governments for 12 out of the last 16 years and that an energy policy based on broad energy reconciliation has been conducted. By the year 2000, we had 11%. renewable energy in energy consumption, we are now at 30%, and with the latest figures, 40% are expected. in 2030. On good days the Danish wind turbine current is being sent out of the country because we simply cannot use it all ourselves, and soon the government will launch an energy project that delivers even more renewable energy. Then there are some who want even more, cost whatever it wants, that's quite fair. However, I sometimes think that the debate is distorted, so I mention it as an example of how nuances disappear. A little the same impression can be given when you listen to the health debate. Here it sometimes sounds like everything has been cut down, but the fact is that since I became Health Minister myself in 2001, almost 5,200 more doctors have been employed in public hospitals and almost 5,900 more nurses. This corresponds to the fact that every day, apart from Sunday, an extra doctor has been employed in our hospitals and that every day, including Sundays, an extra nurse has been hired. When I mention these two things, it is just to try to put things in perspective, because the truth is that by far, by far, most political solutions created in here are found jointly, in fruitful, respectful discussions and by a broad majority. And what if we could take a little more of that stuff out of the closed room and into the public rather than still draw this picture that it's either-or, it's either-or. Then I think we would come a long way, including in the restoration of trust. That brings me to my third and final point. Hal Koch once said that democracy is a conversation. He was quite right about this, and that is also an obligation. If we are to do something about distrust, we elected representatives must be as good at listening as we are talking, because it is, after all, linked to the concept of conversation, to listen to the people in order to understand the concerns in their entirety and context, to listen to each other, not just so little autopilotically, in order to always find the counter-argument, but to find the best solutions. It should be possible for all of us to be equipped with two ears and one mouth. Then we also need to be better able to do something that all other people can do, and as we each can in other dimensions of our lives, that is, become wiser and stand by it when we do so. That goes for me, too. I am pretty sure that if anyone had shown me the government's action against parallel societies 25 years ago, I would have been very, very skeptical. I come from a party that has been rounded up by Grundtvig and proud traditions of freedom, by Kold's school view, are great supporters of our free school traditions and of people being allowed to live as they please. That is why it has, frankly, been difficult to reach the conclusion that we are now proposing to impose on parents that their children should be in an institution, that we now want to interfere in where people are going to live. Because I'm in favour of freedom. But I must also acknowledge that some of our ideals of freedom have failed in this context because they are being used in a way that we could not imagine. That is why we must tackle the problems in a way which I do not really like in essence, but because I simply think it is necessary. The world is changing, and we too must move with it. And maybe we should give each other a little more room for that and hold on to it a little less with you saying once, and you're running away from something you've said, and I've found a discussion book from when you were 19 years old, and there you wrote like that, and now you're 53 and mean something else, so there's no head and tail of any thing; so it won't be a problem to get a little smarter. I think that will strengthen confidence, at least in the long run. It was such a cautious attempt to put three perspectives on this challenge that we are facing. I don't think that's the solution. I am quite sure that there are more and probably better ones, and that is why I intend to follow my own recommendation and look out my ears and listen carefully in today's debate. But before I sit down and do so, I would like to end by congratulating the Alternative for taking the initiative for today's debate. We do not, of course, agree on the whole, to say the least, but I am really glad that Mr. Uffe Elbæk and Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier and the rest of the alternative have focused this on the subject. Because I share the basic concern and therefore I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406101556	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Mr Uffe Elbæk, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406101611	Thank you for that answer, Prime Minister. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister also just included the European perspective, the historical perspective. There were many of us who thought that the world changed when the Berlin Wall fell, and we were glad that the walls fell instead of further walls being built. And it is true that right now in the European space, but also more globally, democratic institutions are under massive pressure, and we see national conservatism coupled with a desire for strong men and women as leaders. In fact, one third of all young people in Europe want a strong leader over the democratic culture we have today. And that makes me feel a little bit like we're in such a democratic middle time right now, when we're on our way from something we know to something we absolutely don't know. There may then be positive scenarios for what it could be. Right now, I think it is mainly the negative scenarios that are emerging. So what is rather a dilemma for us in the alternative is that on the one hand we are guarding our democratic institutions, as we know them today, and on the other hand we are thinking about how we are developing them, that is. How do we build a new such a democratic bridge between us, which is in here at Christiansborg, and then the citizens outside? And we are deeply concerned to find out how the hell we are developing new forms of political participation. Well, how can it be that 96 percent? President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: They are certainly politically committed in other ways, but why does it not make sense for 96 per cent. of the population to be a member of a political party? So how do we make it more active, how do we open up the parties, and thus, of course, how do we open up Christiansborg? We in the opposition wrote a joint chronicle just before the opening of the parliamentary year last October, and there we gave our bid for some concrete cuts, that is, what might be taken of initiatives. Now I'm just mentioning some of them. For example, we proposed extending the school election to secondary schools and vocational schools what is a huge success in the primary school. We also proposed a centre for democracy development here at Christiansborg based on the, what can be said, very simple logic, that the large, serious companies in Denmark today of course have a development department. And if we see Christiansborg as the largest company in democracy, we should also have a development department that knows what happens to exciting democratic initiatives around the world, but also at home at municipal and regional level and national level and looked from there and out. We also proposed that municipalities should really be supported in using citizen-driven budgets more than they are today. If my memory is not completely wrong, we also suggested more mobile polling stations. So it was an indication of how we can start saying how we can vitalise the democratic dialogue, but also ensure that democracy is always something that we recapture from generation to generation. What we are now discussing internally in the Alternative is whether there is no need for a new one, it might be said, for the explanation of democracy. Well, we had a power investigation back in 2003, that is. 15 years ago. But precisely because we see what is happening in the great world, in other words that the democratic institutions are under pressure, and we see it at home too, is there not a need for a new process of democracy to be carried out? Personally, I thought it was more than sympathetic when we saw that the youth parties were able to formulate a political promise. And of course we have all been down to lay our hands on the constitution, but it was really inspiring to read down the things that the youth parties, across the political disagreement they also have, were able to formulate anyway they were able to formulate some very, very fine principles. And what we are also discussing, and perhaps we will also propose, is a really new chamber at Christiansborg, namely a chamber of citizens, in order to create the democratic, what to say, vitality, which we sometimes think we are missing in here. On our very own home ground, we have worked to open up our own party with live streaming of group meetings. The Prime Minister knows about anyone that we ask our Members about the third question when we have Question Time with the Prime Minister, and we discuss ethical questions with them when we ourselves are uncertain about what we mean in the group. But now I just look forward to hearing what the rapporteurs from the other parties think. What are you discussing when the door is closed? You think it's gonna be okay? How can we do better?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102203	Thank you to the rapporteur and for a quiet and good debate on a Friday morning. I just feel like I have to say that damn it is under the category of gangbangs. I have to learn at some point). Yeah, we'd rather not say that. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102221	I would also like to thank you for giving us the debate, and I understand that the Prime Minister, and that is something I myself practise, think it is important to reserve the right to become wiser. It was a little unclear to me whether there was a recognition that there was something that had to do with this, but we might have an opportunity to explore it at a later stage. But in relation to the dilemma that is being pointed out, that is, the relationship between caring for and developing, I also think there is another dilemma. I do not think it is about our institutions as much as it is about the way we use them and the way politics is conducted. At any rate, I have concerns about the weakening of the high level of confidence we have in our institutions when, at the same time, we try to develop the forms in the way we do it. Now we have seen a media show here lately, and the media are also part of our democratic support. I just want to hear: what do you think in the alternative about this challenge of trust in our institutions and what is at stake, including when discussing media reconciliation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102326	I very much agree with the concern that Mr. Morten Østergaard is coming with us here. What we are now seeing in relation to the media negotiations is clearly something in which we see once again that a democratically important institution in Denmark is under pressure. But you can also look at it in relation to the Ombudsman's institution, and you can look at it in relation to the accountants. So, I see that there is a lack of support and a lack of respect for the fundamental democratic institutions today and that we need to stand up for them. That is also why I am saying that this is rather a dilemma. On the one hand, it is about standing up for the institutions and, on the other hand, about developing them at the same time. In other words, the whole debate that has been about citizens' proposals is a good example of this. We see this as an element in vitalising the debate and the relationship between us in here and the citizens. It is being interpreted by others as if it were an attack on representative democracy. And I see it as a strengthening of it, and I see it as a bridge builder. However, I am very concerned about what is happening at the moment, including here on the domestic level, in terms of guarding our fundamental democratic institutions. I'm really worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102444	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102445	That is then a concern that we share. But now it is not supposed to be dark and black-eyed, and that is why I would like to point out another point which I know, Mr President. Uffe Elbæk himself through his work has had a lot of personal experience with. In fact, I find that there is a huge crop in our civil society, in the broadest sense, that there is a huge activism. The citizens' proposals are an example of this, but in fact people are deeply involved in many things which may then just not be the political parties. That is why I could have a concern that some of the things we are doing, such as: The citizens' proposal, which I support, will be something extra, while what happens when real policy is carried out, for example. A plan is made for the exposed residential areas that then it is still going on away in such a closed circle where the many who could be involved in it do not get the outlet for their ideas at all. Among other things: Because power over the past few years has closed down on itself. That is why I believe that we should be careful not to add to this the sort of thing that is being put on top, but that it will be the real, essential political processes in which that activism takes place.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102546	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102547	We do not disagree at all on this point. I think, of course, that the more and the sooner we can involve citizens directly in the thinking we are doing, both as individual parties, but also as government, the better. I can only back that up. So I think that, at least right there, Radical Left is running open doors into the alternative. We are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102620	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102623	Thank you for the floor. We also find it extremely exciting to discuss how we can inspire each other to think about developing our democratic forms of work. Therefore, I am curious to hear a little more about the alternative's idea of some kind of third bourgeoisie, as I understood it, in relation to the Folketing. I am curious because I have an experience that there are very fine opportunities for citizens, interest groups and others who have something on their mind to gain access to us politicians. It is both for us as individuals, but also for the parliamentary committees. Hearings are being conducted and a lot of effort is being made to invite citizens in. So why is it necessary to create a special bourgeoisie? What's that supposed to represent that we don't have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102716	It is a long talk, that is, whether there is a need to create a really new chamber. We have been inspired by what they have done in Ireland and also in Taiwan, where they have put what one might call a democratic disturbance if one is to find a rather subtle concept of it into the political process. Here they have selected some citizens, just as you have the jury, without party political affiliation, to come up with their proposals for some of the same political challenges that will be discussed here in the Parliamentary Assembly. We have our own concrete example of that, because... Thank you!). Oh.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102805	Yeah, we're trying to make it work. Here you go, Mrs. Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102806	But one could imagine that together we could do something to ensure that the thinking that citizens' views could get closer to processes could be done within the democratic framework, that it is in interaction with committee work and the legislative process, etc.? Because my experience is that there are incredibly many options, but they may not be used so often. The risk of talking about creating a proper chamber of citizens is to give it the impression that it is impossible to reach us in political terms. My call is that we should look at what we can do to make it visible that citizens already have the opportunity today and see if we can do it better within the framework of representative democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102843	That is actually what I think is the dilemma, because we must actually do both things at the same time. In other words, I think that the President and the Bureau themselves have been in charge of looking at how we can make even better use of the system we actually have. That is also what I hear Mrs Christine Antorini point out here. And I think we should do both things at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102908	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102911	Thank you. And thank you for an exciting rapporteur's speech. I'd like to explore the idea of a bourgeoisie a little, because I think that's interesting. But I can't help wondering if Mr. Knox... Uffe Elbæk does not agree with me that the Folketing would like to be the bourgeois chamber itself, i.e. the chamber, which consists of 179 citizens selected by the Danes from all parts of the country at different ages and with different backgrounds. Now, sir. Uffe Elbæk may explain his thoughts on what such a bourgeois chamber would look like, but could it not really be a declaration of failure if we come to the conclusion that there is a need for a bourgeois chamber because the bourgeois chamber, which the electorate has already put together after careful consideration, does not prove to be sufficient?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102955	Thank you. And here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406102956	I understand the question, i.e. whether it is a criticism of representative democracy with the status and responsibility that we have here. When we talk about a bourgeoisie, it does not mean that it should be a decision-making bourgeoisie. Well, that doesn't mean that it's in here in Parliament that the decisions of the bourgeoisie are made. But we just believe that there can be a value in having a dialogue with citizens on important issues that we ultimately land in here. So you really have to see such a bourgeoisie as a qualification, a source of inspiration for what is going on here. And there must be a conversation, a deep, serious conversation between us in the Assembly Hall and a possible chamber of citizens. Anyway, I would also like to say that this is an idea that is on the drawing board right now. And if we go ahead with it, we'll come and share everyone in exactly how we've thought it. However, as I have said, it is to give an example of how we can imagine a more interesting democratic structure than the one we have today. Can this bring citizens closer, and can we do so in such a way that citizens think that democracy is deeply meaningful and that it is something they want to get involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103112	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103113	Thank you for your answer. Now I would like to ask another question: not about the Chamber of Citizens, but about Christiansborg in terms of opening it up to the citizens. When I was elected almost 3 years ago, I was actually surprised at how open Christiansborg was; how many opportunities there were for all sorts of people who had something at heart to come in; how many events were held and how open doors there really are here in the Folketing. That's all I want to hear, sir. Uffe Elbæk: What are the concrete proposals if you want to open up Christiansborg more? Because I have to admit that I think it is very open and I think that is a good thing. But it could be that there were some other proposals from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103154	Now the time is short to answer that, but that is to say, we have used what we call the alternative parliament ourselves. When there have been discussions in this Chamber, we have invited up to 100 citizens into the Landstingshall to discuss the same subject that has been discussed in here. We did so, for example, in connection with the debate on the ceiling for cash aid, and it was so democratically hopeful to see how these citizens went to the same discussion that we had in here. I am absolutely certain that those people experienced that Christiansborg was suddenly opened up to them. In addition, I would like to say that I also have exactly the same experience as the questioner, namely that my colleagues across the parties in here are very listening and would like to address themselves and that people are working very seriously. But it is still the case that Christiansborg is seen as a closed institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103250	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103252	Thank you for that, and thank you for the alternative and Mr. Uffe Elbæk for raising this important debate. Now we're in this house, and we're part of that statistic, where we're lower than car dealers and, well, even lower than reporters, and you can think about that a little bit. That's where we're all of a sudden. And when I ask Mr. Uffe Elbæk is exactly for that, isn't it, because I know Mr. Uffe Elbæk from the time before he entered politics in here, and to have a high credibility, a high level of activity and a large interface. All of a sudden, sir. Uffe Elbæk in this house and so is part of this statistic. I don't sense that Mr. Uffe Elbæk has changed or behaves differently. What is it that can't be unfolded in here so the human radiance of what we may have brought to each of us, then that we are suddenly part of that statistic and can't shake us out of it or can't separate us or get pushed to it seriously? It is, after all, a question of the Folketing, the question being asked, and that is where, perhaps, it is the lowest in relation to local politicians, etc. What is this house doing to us, or what are we forgetting to bring in here? I think we could almost look for answers to each one of the worlds we now come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103413	Yes, it is a hugely exciting question, and I just want to stand here and talk for 15 minutes, but I'm probably not allowed to do that by the President. But I actually think the Prime Minister made some pretty good suggestions. I mean, this house is built on conflict. Politics is a conflict. But we're looking for it, too. And our ability to listen and engage in a really curious conversation seems to me many times lacking, and it often becomes one block against the other block. Of course, there can be profoundly real critical things that you think you deeply disagree with, and you have to take a stand against them, and you have to say that you do not think it is right for some to do so or that. I believe that the way we in this House manage our role as politicians and as parties, and the way in which government and opposition manage their role, means that at least all of you who may be watching this on television and you who sit up on the audience often experience that it is just mud throwing and that the fundamental discussion disappears. I think that is one of the reasons for this, but it is certainly not the only one. The media play an extremely important role in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103531	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103532	Yes, and then we have to ask each other: How do we actually wriggle out of it? Because maybe that's where the core lies. We can talk a lot about many things, extroversion etc., but the picture drawn by us and Mr. Uffe Elbæk touched it, after all, is the picture of the conflict. And we have a media flow now that has accelerated over the last 10 years, and there is a study that says it has only gone downhill. Surely there is reason to ask: Why is that? The media we have now, which are completely different, what are they? How can we do something about it? After all, we are all part of it and, as politicians, perhaps we are also willing to play with where we should sometimes say no and not be or what? How are we gonna get out of this? For the media picture and stream may also continue rather uncritically.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103621	I can only say that I fully agree. In fact, that is why we are proposing a new process of democracy, in which, among other things, we are proposing a new process of democratization. We are looking at the role of the media. In other words, looking at the dynamics between the media and politics. If we're focused on conflict, then the media are. Right now, the vast majority of media do not have a business plan that is linked, so the only thing they make money on is if there are many visitors on their websites. This means that there must be breaking news continuously. So there is such a negative synergy between the political conflict focus and the media's need for breaking news.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103701	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103703	What just inspired me to ask a question was sir. Elbæk Uffe's story that a meeting on cash benefits had been held in the Alternative. But what was that argument for? Was it an argument for having this citizens' parliament, or was it, on the contrary, an argument that it is not necessary because it shows that you can just hold such meetings? That was one question. The second question is: how does such an arrangement differ from the many events we have held on exactly the cash aid ceiling? After all, we have filled the Landstingshall in the context of major hearings and open consultations on this very question, so what was the reason why Mr. Uffe Elbæk mentioned that activity?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103742	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103743	Well, personally I saw it as one of the most hopeful things I've almost experienced while I've been in here at Christiansborg. At the same time, it was also a little depressing, because when the ceiling for cash aid was discussed in this Chamber, it was very violent, and I thought that the level of conflict was extremely high in every way. And then just 200 m further down the hall there were 100 people who discussed the same issue, and they came up with some in my optics much, much more serious suggestions for a solution to the challenges we also discussed the same day in here. It was a bit of an experiment because 100 people had been invited, one third of whom were cash workers, one third were social workers, and one third were researchers, but before the meeting started, they were not allowed to say who they were, so you could only say your name. In other words, there were suddenly 100 people with equal status, but with experience in this area, and it created a very unique debate which, from my subjective point of view, I thought was at a higher level than what was going on in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103856	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103857	Well, I'm really glad that the alternative has had an event they've been happy about. It sounds like the kind of arrangement I've been in in a lot of people, maybe not, where you don't tell who you are; now people do that quite quickly, and otherwise you can quickly decipher it. But I didn't really find out what that was an argument for. Is that an argument for having this particular Parliamentary thing? And what is the difference between the open hearing on exactly the same subject, where only one month ago we filled the Landstingshall completely and where there was a very constructive atmosphere? So what are the things that Mr. Uffe Elbæk brings the track, an argument for? Those are good stories, but what are they an argument for?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406103939	That is, of course, an argument for us to have as good a basis of knowledge as possible in order to take the decisions that we must now take. Without going into too much detail with an idea which, as I said, is on the drawing board, which I also emphasised, I would like to say that having a bourgeoisie can help provide knowledge and insight and raise issues that can only be created by the fact that citizens are not bound by a party political hinterland. And that knowledge must help inspire us when we make our final political decisions in here. As I said, this has been done with good results in Ireland and Taiwan. So, of course, our desire is simply to create as good and democratic a debate as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104022	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur, and we go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104035	First of all, sincere thanks for an important debate that we do not often take, one can say in the spirit of the high school, here in the Assembly Chamber, but we would like to start by saying in the Social Democratic Party that we think it is nice to see how well-functioning Danish democracy is. It is not the same as that there are no problems, but I would like to mention a few things. It is, for example, that there is a high turnout, but where we have found that young voters do not have equal turnouts. This meant a few years ago that, as a broad majority, we decided to introduce school elections, which the rapporteur also highlighted as a really good initiative. We have also introduced the possibility of a letter voting on youth education so that we have a democratic debate and then we can vote there for election. It is just to say that there is a great deal of openness about how, despite the fact that we have a well-functioning democracy, we are constantly doing something about how we can spread it even more. I think that should be mentioned because it would be a pity if we were to talk our democracy down. I would also like to point out some of the things that we consider to be a major challenge in return. Because it has nothing to do with developing forms of work, we would be delighted to do so. In the Social Democratic Party we do the same. We have the problem, as everyone else has, that we also want to mobilise more people who want to be part of our work, what has actually been achieved through systematic networking, open experiments, sometimes also with a little inspiration from what the Alternative has done. This means that, over the last few years, for the first time, we have seen a net approach of members, because they experience an opportunity to discuss politics around with local social democrats. What is the dilemma is perhaps how we behave as political parties. When we had the 2015 elections, we were in a very unique situation in the bad way that in fact only three parties went to the polls that they were ready to take government power. It's a mess, but some people have to. It was the Social Democracy, it was the Left and it was the Radical Left. It's a challenge, because it helps to promote the polarised debate, if you're not ready to say, okay, so we just believe in this democracy, and we're going to make an effort to go in and make broad collaborations and not make blue lines, red lines or green lines, as the Prime Minister said, but how we can really discuss these things with each other. It changed. The one-party government with the Left became a minority government with three parties, so that changed, however. But this is the first time we have seen that so few parties were prepared to take the power of government. We are also taking a look at the United States, because we think that some of the trends that are there are frightening. I have two colleagues in this Chamber who were part of the same UN delegation team as I am, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party and Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF. And over there we were presented with some really scary tendencies. Firstly, if you look at the media: 65%. of the adult population of the United States gets their main news source from Facebook. They tap into some media where they are confirmed in what they meant in advance. That's worrying. That is why we are discussing why we must preserve public service here in Denmark. It's because we need some places where we also have that discussion with each other, and we don't subscribe to the fact that it's the journalists' fault that there's this polarization. It is a political responsibility that we do not share in drawing up different sections of the public. Unfortunately, it is also true, as the rapporteur said in relation to the debate here, that in the United States we can see that 60%. believes that a strong President is needed who is willing to break the rules, because you experience a political system that is locked, where the Democrats and Republicans are not discussing constructively with each other, but only against each other. That is our major task, because what creates populism, politicians and people do not believe in us is if we cannot find out and want to engage in a broad dialogue with each other and will also make broad agreements. So what can we do for it? That is where we must be careful not to create new institutions in the best interests of the cause, in which we really distrust ourselves, in other words that we are not able to expand and develop democratic forms of work. We are part of the solution and, unfortunately, we can also help create problems if we are not better at developing those forms of work. So in those words, I think it might be appropriate to look at the municipal elections. On the other hand, it was uplifting because what happened there? Again great citizen participation, lots of discussions and indeed many broad agreements around where we said that we are handing hands at each other locally, that we will try to carry out that task together, also in ongoing dialogue with citizens. So we look forward to discussing various ways of extending democracy, but with respect for the fact that we are the citizens' parliament here and so there are 4 million people who have the opportunity to put together the politicians and the parties through which they think they can carry the policy, and who can also say in an election that we do not think you did well enough. But it is still 4 million people, and these are the ones we need to activate together, and there it is important that we develop a political culture in which we stick to the best of Danish democracy. We are many parties that have a long tradition of working together and hopefully making broad compromises, because otherwise we will have a situation in which the people do not believe in us anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104543	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier for a brief comment or question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104547	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for pointing out some of the things that are really good about Danish democracy. The school elections are also one of the things we have highlighted ourselves as a very good example of how we can find ways of involving our young people in democracy. However, I do not think that the rapporteur has so much to say about the challenge of confidence in politicians, so why we are so low in these confidence measurements. One of the theories could be that we politicians sometimes tend to draw a picture of society that people out in reality, I was saying, cannot identify with. The Prime Minister mentioned this: there is crime and we have challenges with parallel societies. However, if we look at the statistics, crime is decreasing in Denmark, and the level of education among some of those living in socially vulnerable residential areas is increasing. But in here from Christiansborg we point to black holes and increased crime. So I think that some of the reason why there is this politician-led is actually that there are a lot of citizens who hear us telling some stories that they don't even recognize from their everyday lives. Can the rapporteur agree with me that this can also be part of the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104654	I think one of the dilemmas is that we have gone from being, you might say, class- and social-group-oriented parties to the fact that there have been more identity parties. And identity parties are characterised by the fact that, for example, people are not able to make a living. is green. Either you're green or you're not green. It may also be that Danishness fills something. So either you're a real Dane or you're a wrong Dane. And the dilemma with identity policy is that it is harder to make compromises in relation to what is most important to you at all. It has to be said that the old class and social group-based parties were dependent on cooperation across the board. It was known that I think that the advantage of the identity parties is that they actually have agendas that matter to groups in the population. But that means that we all have to make an effort to put it in a positive way, instead of making an us-and-them. We don't need either or. So, I think the beauty of Danish democracy is that we usually make an effort with boats and boats.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104759	Thank you. There is one more comment to be made by Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104802	But one of the beauty of Danish democracy is that we have a constitution which ensures that we all have the same rights. One of the things that I can also be concerned about, and which I also think is one of the reasons why we are standing here today, is that we have started politically to challenge the framework of the Constitution a little more. Now we have begun to discuss whether anything can be done within the framework of the Constitution. I was in the Chamber the day before yesterday, when we were discussing whether the fact that the Ministry of Justice considers that a motion for a resolution raises important questions in Article 70 of the Constitution should be interpreted as meaning that it is contrary to the Constitution or not. However, the fact that something raises important questions about the provisions of the Constitution is in itself a major democratic challenge. So can the rapporteur not also agree with me that we are moving a little on the edge of the constitution, in other words that what guarantees all of us's rights is beginning to talk about as something that we must challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104857	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104858	It is, of course, fundamental as part of our political activity that when we come up with various proposals, whether it is the great visions or something that can become concrete policy, we must, of course, live up to the Constitution. When I put it this way, it is because we actually had a discussion about it with the citizens' proposal proposed by the alternative and which is now running as an attempt here in the Folketing. Because a legitimate concern was also raised as to whether this would be contrary to the constitution, because would there suddenly be citizens who could make a proposal that might have come across as discriminatory, racist, other? That is why we worked very hard to get it adapted in such a way that it was absolutely certain that it was within the framework of the Constitution. So it is just to say that it is a core task for us to ensure that it is within the framework of the Constitution. It's always been like that. That's how it's gonna be forward-looking. And citizens' proposals actually ran into that discussion too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406104952	I can only add that no legislative proposal is being tabled here which is contrary to the basic law. It simply cannot be done. We are talking about motions for resolutions, but not legislative proposals. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105005	I have two questions for Mrs Christine Antorini. One is actually in relation to citizens' proposals. Now it has been up several times, and we have discussed it in different contexts. One of the things that puzzles me is that we have only dealt with one proposal in the Chamber, and now the second is on the way, but yet there are a lot of people who already think it is quite wrong and that it is deeply problematic and all sorts of things. And that really surprises me, because we haven't even gotten started. So could Mrs Christine Antorini say something about why people, including the rapporteur himself, have been out to report so clearly that this could be deeply problematic before we have even really tried it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105054	That is because we are going to discuss here the difference between representative democracy and direct democracy • what are the advantages and disadvantages of it? So, instead of seeing it as worrying that the Social Democrats are going in and having that discussion, I hope that the alternative will take it as a gift for the democratic conversation that needs to be held. That is also why we are going in positive and discussing: is it a good idea or not? When we can be in doubt about this, it is because it may help to give the impression that there are no proper democratic conditions with the Chamber of People we are actually here. It is just to say that the way in which the alternative went in and responded to my speech about the concern for citizens' proposals was that good democrats should love citizens' proposals. It was addressed to me, and then I thought: okay, that is, I am a bad democrat because I am concerned that these are democratic mechanisms that bypass us elected representatives. And it's too bad we're gonna have that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105156	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Yes, it was there, but then you should be kind enough to get in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105204	I always have one more question! I do not question at all whether Mrs Christine Antorini is a good democratic citizen. I am absolutely sure she is. I also find it interesting to discuss it; that is to say, I think it is a completely legitimate discussion. I just thought it was subtle to discuss it before we almost started it. Then I have a question about what Mrs Christine Antorini said about class parties. And what you can see right now is that Members from the old class parties, that is, from the Left as an agricultural party and from the Social Democratic Party as a working party, are indeed some of those who are no longer here who have not been elected members of parliament. So, how does the Social Democracy want us to have a more diverse representation that reflects the population that is out there in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105252	[Sound emission]... parties in the Folketing, so there is a certain diversity in the possibility of feeling represented. In fact, I think it is a really good and important combination when, you might say, the old class parties can cooperate with the identity parties, because there is something different there if you recognise that you can use each other to try to work for broad compromises. The dilemma with identity policy is that there may be many emotions in it. It can happen that if you don't get the green you want, or if you don't get the Danishness you want, which are the two examples I used, then it can become an us against them. And we're gonna work to make it a "we" not a "us" against them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105336	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more comments. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105345	Thank you. After all, this is a very, very big question raised in today's debate, namely how to strengthen democracy, the citizens' interest in participating in democracy and in political parties, but also the question of trust in us, the elected representatives. And it is certainly a subject that can be written on very long explanations, but it is also a very important theme, and I am sure that it is of great interest to all of us. That is why I would like to begin by thanking the alternative for calling this question debate. I think this is about a great deal of things, and in my rapporteur's speech I will try to touch on them briefly with concrete examples. I believe, first of all, that the people expect there to be a clear link between the electoral promises made before an election and the result that follows. For example, it may be that the choice is made to tighten the policy on foreigners. The Danes prefer the path they took at the last elections, and then, of course, something will have to happen afterwards. You promise something, and it's done. It's good, because you can count on it. Then I think it is also about ensuring transparency in the legislative process, so it will be easy for citizens, stakeholders and the press to follow what we are really doing at Christiansborg and what the government is doing. An example of what was unfortunately a dull one was when the public law was changed some years ago. It's something I actually think fills the population more than you might think. Why was there really a need for rules that made it harder for the free press and the people to follow what was going on here at Slotsholmen? I think that made a lot of people think: what are we not supposed to know? What are we not allowed to be part of? That's probably why this law has been given the kind of boring nickname cover-up law. Legislation like that, I think, helps to reduce the Danes' confidence, and I think it can have a dull, long-term negative effect. Then there is the question of politicians and political parties. I would say that if you, as a politician, perhaps particularly as a minister, say something quite clear, then you also have to be careful to follow it to the door, otherwise it is bad, because it is about our trust. Let me give you a few examples which I myself remembered when I was writing this speech by the rapporteur. Just as happy I was when the country's Minister of Justice some time ago on a Conservative National Council stated that a certain very criminal gangster should be thrown out of Denmark, just as disappointed I was when I found out that he was allowed to stay here. Or just as brave as I thought it was when the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration wanted to bring the Grimhøjmosque to the ground, I was just as disappointed when I found out that it was not really a view that applied in the Folketing, but that was true in all other places than in the Folketing. Now it is not for me to hang out exactly the two ministers who are then not here today. It was just because it was two examples I remembered. Then there is another important aspect, and that is myself. Because it is easy enough to stand here pointing fingers; it is easy enough to say that all the others are not doing well enough. Do you make mistakes yourself? Yeah, I sure hope we all do. What may just be the decisive factor is whether you learn from them and you stand by them. Do I always do that? No, I'm afraid I don't always get it done. But I would actually say that this is quite essential, because I see that the people in general have very great respect and confidence in politicians when they say: "Oh, that was an ass, I didn't get it right. I wasn't quite as fresh when I picked up that phone and said those words. And all of a sudden, it's just running. So I would actually say that an essential aspect of this debate should be oneself. What do I do before I think about what others do? Another important thing is the candidates who are running, those who are in this Parliament, which I would like to call a citizen's thing. Because that is what it is, it is the citizens who have put us together. When I first visited the American Congress and saw how politicians behaved and how much money they had to collect just to get near a place in Congress, I couldn't help but be very proud of the way Danish democracy is connected. I think there are a lot of good examples of members of this thing who have not had politics in their blood or brought it with them from home, but who have just felt it was right and who have had the opportunity, because Denmark is a democratically very unique country. And it's actually gonna be my end. Although there are things we can certainly disagree on and elements that can be made better or more beautiful, I think we should keep our feet on the ground and see that Denmark is still a wonderful country and a democratic guiding star. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105905	Thank you. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406105910	Thank you for that and thank you for a fine speech from the rapporteur. Now, to put it mildly, it is rare for us to agree in substance if I am going to quote the Prime Minister, but that is a way of being a politician, which is very clear to the people. I think many people will agree with me that politicians from the Danish People's Party are very clear, and the Danish People's Party often says straight out of the bag what you think. What is then interesting about the Danish People's Party is when you look at how many members the Danish People's Party has, because then it is something that looks like 9,000 or something. I think it was in 2016. I checked, and the number's around there. Left, which is a small party in the Folketing, has some and 30,000 members. Is it a problem from the perspective of the Danish People's Party that there are so few members? It is not a criticism but a real question. I mean, do you think it's an internal problem? Is it something that the Danish People's Party believes is part of a democratic success criterion that you get more members than the relatively few that you have when you consider the size of the party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110034	If the rapporteur wants to know whether I would like to have some more members in the Danish People's Party, I can say quite clearly that people are welcome. We would very much like to have many more members in the Danish People's Party. The last time I checked the membership, it was now about 15,000, at least in the rent that I also think is nice. But that must only mean that we are overpriesting in the parliamentary elections, and I can only be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110055	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110058	I'm sorry, because there's 15 grand on my paper too. It said 9,000, but I crossed that line because I had miswritten it. So the right number is 15,000. It's still relatively few. When I ask, it is also because one can say that when the Danish People's Party is so good at these clear messages, the question is whether this is the right way to conduct politics in Denmark. You put your cross every four years with some politicians who are very clear in their rhetoric, and of course they also have a political agenda, with which the voters have to assume that they agree. But it does not seem as if there is much going on at times, that is, between the four years, in a party like the Danish People's Party, in terms of actively involving citizens in discussing the nuances of policy, so that it does not appear as very simple messages, but that it also provides an opportunity to say: let us come in and discuss what underlying values lie here, and what are the basic premises on which we are discussing politics? So it is really also to ask whether the rapporteur can agree that precisely in the Danish People's Party it could be something that one might well be able to unfold a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110202	No, I don't actually agree with that. I'll tell you what. I think it is very fresh-boyish that the questioner is indulging in a very long question about such internal processes in the Danish People's Party. I can say that I have been a member of this party since I was 14 years old, and I have always felt that I and my ideas were being listened to, even when I started, when I went to school and had social classes and started to take a real interest in politics. So I should be the living example of exactly the opposite of what the questioner might think about the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110232	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110242	One of the places in which I have learned more can be said, and as I have become more in agreement with the Danish People's Party and Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen in, is after all about the Public Act. I think it is crucial that those who manage power also allow there to be transparency, about how this is done, and that there is more to it than is the case today, and that is the case, among other things. because we can then have a critical public and a critical press. That is why I do not understand why the Danish People's Party is handing out funds with one hand and saying that the Public Service Act is important, and so, at the moment, with the other hand, is cutting down the free and critical press and making a strong drop in the public service sector in Denmark. How are these two things connected? If we are to have an active and critical press, it must have the conditions to look into the cards, but there must also be someone to do so. And a 20-percent saving on DR, which I believe is just below the threshold, and further savings on a large number of the other state-funded public service media do not exactly contribute to critical public opinion to any greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110343	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110346	We have a very broad, versatile media image in Denmark, and it's kind of good. There are a great many private players who do well, and then there is a very large Danish Radio, which is therefore available here on favourable terms and is therefore supported by the public through the licence. And I just have to say that I cannot push any tears out of the corner of my eyes when it comes to a media that is funded with public funds in the way that Denmark's Radio will be and that will still be lost after what is being proposed will get over 3 billion. kr. a year. I find that very difficult to squeeze tears out of my eye hook. I have to admit that. I am quite sure that it could actually be very good for Denmark to have a higher degree of diversity and more nuances in the landscape of media that is, and especially of private media.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110436	Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110440	Personally, I find it difficult to understand why one of the institutions that brings the Danes together should be replaced by private enterprises with interests other than the gathering of the Danes, but we can then disagree on that. What worries me too about this debate is what we see: aggressive attempts to influence our minds, our hearts, so we go in the opposite direction and thus turn against our own institutions, against the European Union and against our democracy. After all, it is taking place in the diversity and confusion of the media that are available today. And that is why I think that the Danish People's Party owes us an answer as to why this is a well-chosen time in Danish history and world history to drop down on the independent and publicly funded production of news, critical journalism and debate, when instead of being able to redistribute if you wanted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110536	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110539	I wouldn't say that. One cannot equate wanting a Danish Radio that actually takes up less space and still gets more than 3 billion. kr. a year. You can't put the same thing there when you say we need a less critical press. On the contrary, the Danish People's Party wants us to have a wider media picture, where private players like Danish daily newspapers, who play a huge role in the democratic debate, will get more muscles and fill more and new things like digital platforms and other solutions that can get more Danes, who are not involved in politics today, to take part in the debate. So I just can't follow the questioner I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110616	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110617	I think I will follow up on Morten Østergaard's question. If you look into the world, into Europe, you can see that where you have strong public service institutions, you also have the highest turnout. So there is obviously a relationship between a strong public service institution and that you have a critical, knowledgeable and curious population. On some of the stretches of media conciliation, I fully agree with the Danish People's Party: that you want to support the regional stations and the local media. But I also don't actually understand, as Morten Østergaard also asked why you specifically want Denmark's Radio to be cut 20%. So, the Danish People's Party went out with 25%. But now it's 20 percent. I don't get it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110714	Well, it is our clear assumption that there is a layer of fat that can be wasted, while at the same time allowing other media to have more room in the public debate. That would be only gratifying. I also think that it is a great deal to give Denmark's Radio credit for the fact that I was going to say that the high turnout, i.e. that it was precisely the public service medium Denmark's Radio, that should have a profit from it. I think it is much more nuanced why the Danes are so good at voting. I am not really so worried about this, because I would say that a media that gets over 3 billion. kr. Every year, in public funds, there is no bad situation. I can't believe that getting over 3 billion. kr. A year should be a punishment or humiliation. I don't buy that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110801	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110805	The alternative seems that what is happening right now in relation to Denmark's Radio is deeply problematic, but we can take that discussion at another time. However, I would like to ask Peter Kofod Poulsen whether the rapporteur can give us some advice in terms of getting a more diverse representation of members of parliament. So, I really take the hat off that the Danish People's Party has been able to attract candidates and thus ultimately members of parliament who have a broader social background, that is, that people are skilled. After all, the vast majority in here are academically trained people, and I really like the fact that the Danish People's Party, together with Enhedslisten, has been able to get a wider recruitment. Is there any good tips?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110857	It was also a very big question, and I can say just for information that I myself am a school teacher; so I think that I fit very well into the parliamentary group I am in. But that was a very, very big question, and yes, what do you have to answer it? Perhaps I can say that some of us have some thoughts about, if I have to look at the Alternative, that it may be a bit a Copenhagen party or a big city party • The Copenhagen party was too simplistic but in many ways a metropolitan party, while I really think that one of the things I enjoy being DFs is that when you get around all the corners of the country, you meet the Danes as they are most around. Well, you meet the blacksmith and you meet her who's a hairdresser, and you meet the pensioner, and you meet him who's a teacher. And I think it's great to get around our local associations anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110945	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this rapporteur, and then it is Mr. President. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406110956	Thank you for that, Mr President, and thank you for the alternative. Uffe Elbæk and Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, to take the initiative in this debate. For the Danes' confidence in us as elected representatives is low and it is too low, and it is a challenge that risks developing into a real problem if we do nothing about it. In the end, of course, it is about confidence in democracy, and it is something that each of us bears in our hearts that we must not put it at risk. That is why we have today's debate, which is why last year, on the initiative of the President, we held a good seminar with good colleagues at KolleKolle, which is why representatives from all parties are meeting here on Monday with representatives of the Fourth State Power who are, in fact, suffering a little under the same mistrust to speak openly and freely and outside the quotation of this common challenge. And it is common; we politicians and the press who are not here can't just point the finger at each other. We both may have a tendency to do so from time to time, and I do not think it increases the public's confidence in either of us. That's why I'm gonna let the reporters go until Monday, and they're not here either. It's possible they're throwing gas at the fire, but after all, it's probably us who turned it on. So let us look at ourselves, because it is with itself that you can really make changes here in life, and we are in charge of it. What, then, can we, as politicians, do better? The Prime Minister said it well before, and I do not know if I can contribute so much new, but I can say it in my own way. I don't have to tell anyone that this is the whole answer, or that I have a patent for the truth. But basically I think it is easier to formulate it and quite obviously more difficult for all of us to apply it in practice. Whether you represent old, traditional parties or new parties that have actually emerged with a desire for a new political culture, there is one thing that is common to all of us, and we know it well: we must behave properly. We must behave to ourselves, to each other and to the electorate. We need to remind ourselves why we went into politics. We need to remind ourselves of our priorities for our political activities, because they are hardly so different across parties. We have all entered politics because we want to make a difference. We have entered politics to ensure an even better Denmark for the next generation. And then we have gone into politics because we believe that just the effort that each of us makes is important and that we ourselves are the very best at doing so. Because it's not about ambition, it's not about excitement, and it's not about the game. It is about doing what we believe is right for Denmark. So we must show respect for ourselves also if over the years we become a little more cynical. We have to behave with each other. We must not accuse each other when they are not justified and we really know it. We must not give each other points of view and reasons which we know to be wrong. We must not imply that the work we have undertaken in here is not worth the consideration we receive, because that is it. We must stop exhibiting each other as greedy, lazy, selfish, and what else we can do when we really know that colleagues in this room also have difficulty in making everyday life and a fairly harmonious family life hang together from time to time. We need to show respect for each other, even when the cameras roll. Then there are the voters. We must not pretend to the electorate that there are easy solutions to complicated challenges. We must not try to deceive voters into being able to conduct policy on individual cases without having consequences elsewhere. We must not create an illusion that Denmark is a society that lives in a small bubble where the rest of the world can be kept out or ignored. Because then we talk down to the voters, and you don't make that a parent. You have to be able to count on what we say, that we are actually fighting to get Denmark in the direction we say. I know that we are bound by a parliamentary reality and that no one in here can have it as one would have liked me to say fortunately, but it is not acceptable for us to offer the voters such an attractive Utopia if we know that it cannot be put into practice. We must show respect, including for the voters, and also when we see the possibility of a quick but short-term gain in the next measurement. It is very easy to stand here and say it, and as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen said this before: Am I living up to all these rules? No, I'm trying to do it. That's really why I came in here, but it doesn't always work out. It does not for any of us, neither of us, but we must strive to do so. And that is why it is good that we have such a debate as the one we have today, because we have to remind ourselves and each other of it once in a while. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406111555	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406111559	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Thank you, too, because I see the rapporteur precisely as a politician who behaves properly in the political debates and as a kind soul who gave me a lift six months ago when I was stranded in Brøndby Hallen and could not come home. And that is one of the things I think makes a really big difference for the citizens and among them, of course, our young people too, that is to say, we as politicians also show that we can actually work out how to talk properly and treat each other properly and help each other when needed. Now, when Mrs Christine Antorini was in the chair, we spoke earlier about school elections as a way of trying in schools to prepare our young people to become active democrats. Is there anything else we can do? I can be a little bit concerned about whether we are capable or good enough role models for our young people. I myself have a few at home who are teenagers and who sometimes have a little too much tendency to say that they don't know, or that it doesn't matter, or something like that, where I just feel like it: No, now you have to take a position; when I ask you something, you have to have an attitude; it may be that I don't agree with it, but you have to take a position. So I myself also experience among my own offspring some young people who may be hovering around a little and not really taking a position on their lives and their surroundings and everything they are in. Are we skilled enough in schools to prepare these young people for them to take over society after the rest of us at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406111727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406111731	The obvious answer is, of course, 'no', and it is not a denial of the efforts being made in schools. Yesterday I visited two commercial school classes from Aarhus. Sir. Uffe Elbæk passed us right here outside the Chamber, and it gave me the opportunity to do so, by the way, it was not intended that Mr. Uffe Elbæk had to hear some nice things about Mr. Uffe Elbæk. It was a great surprise to the young people, not to say that there was anything nice to say about Mr. Uffe Elbæk, but that I did it, that we have the collegiate form that we have in here. And that worries me a lot. I am very concerned that most of the young people who come in here are surprised when we tell them that we really like our colleagues. I believe that there are just a little less than half of those who are really wrong in so many things, but I really like them. They are good people, they are lovely people, they are decent people, and they are people who devote their lives to a better Denmark. Then I can try to make them smarter. But I think that is the first place to tackle this, namely to show that we can actually talk and that there is no clear focus on the conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406111838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406111843	Thank you. For good reasons, I am very much in agreement. I would like to ask a question which is on a slightly different ball street, but which is also about what role models we are or how we prove ourselves democrats. In connection with the debate on the citizens' proposals, it is, after all, a unanimous Parliament which has voted through the model itself, and subsequently we have recently seen a strong criticism of the idea of having citizens' proposals in the Folketing, particularly from the Minister for Education and Research, who is also one of the members of the Left Parliament, and this has been described as nonsense. Then I think: can it not also be something that confuses the citizens that we, as Members of Parliament, go to the Assembly and say yes to something, and then you go out on Twitter and talk a lot down, which you yourself have helped to vote through? I am just wondering whether there is not something there, in relation to what signals we send to citizens about what we are really standing up for as politicians and what we believe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406111933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406111937	I was so hoping it wouldn't come to this kind of thing. But what Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier is doing now is an example of taking a statement and distorting it and making it something else. That's what I warned you about before. The Left is against the citizens' proposal system, but as a responsible party we voted in favour of implementation. But if you have not understood in here that the Left is vertically opposed to citizens' proposals and that we think this is nonsense, then you have not listened to it every hour. We had the alternative resolution and we were very opposed to it. I've been out talking violently against it. I think this is a contempt for representative democracy, but when it comes to introducing it, we are helping to ensure that it is properly implemented. That's because we're quite aware of our responsibilities in here. It's because we're a responsible party. I'm sorry it has to take this turn, but I'm just gonna have to go a little bit straight with the wrong point of view. We are against that arrangement; we think it is nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112046	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112058	Thank you for your speech, which I broadly agree with. Well, I think it is incredibly important that, when we commit the people's regime, we also contribute to increasing respect. However, I think one is left with the impression that the primary message was things that we should stop talking, in other words, talk ugly and behave wrong and so on. But are there not any considerations about things that might nevertheless help to increase confidence and promote the matter? The Publicity Act has been mentioned earlier, and I am not sure I fully understand why the Left is so steep in not wanting to increase the transparency of the way in which power is managed. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen and I belong to both parties who want government power, and I really regret that we have come so far apart in the discussion about what we must stand for when we are given the privilege of having power and exercising it. And I would like this to be one of the considerations, i.e. that perhaps we could learn a little bit more about something that could lead to greater transparency.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112209	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112213	I can see that such a debate as this one can be used today to tackle all kinds of issues for which criticism can be made. I do not really think that was the intention of the alternative. I think that the purpose of this debate was to talk about a common challenge we have. Part of the challenge comes, as I said before, when you give others views and motives that they do not have. And I can't help noticing that Mr. Morten Østergaard, as mentioned earlier, was in favour of this public law when it was Mr. Morten Østergaard himself, who was to be looked at in the cards. But strangely enough, you're no longer a supporter when it's not sir. Morten Østergaard, to be looked at in the cards. Because we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112304	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112307	I understand the answer so that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen does not think that other motives which they do not necessarily have should be attributed to the Radical Left, after which he gives a number of reasons as to why we have the position we have on the law on public access to documents. I think it is well known that it was also a major discussion within our party when the debate was going on. And the problem is, of course, that if we are to do what the Prime Minister is calling for, not lock us up and be tied to the views we once took, and thus refuse to be challenged by reality or the criticism that exists, by the way in which the things we have put to the vote behave in practice, then I do not think we are strengthening confidence. And that is why it was actually a sincere and open question whether there is nothing that the Left believes we can actively do to promote confidence, rather than just talking about things that should not be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112402	In every act there is an omission and in every omission there is an act. So if you say not to talk ugly to each other, or if you say you have to talk nicely to each other, you're probably looking at two sides of the same coin. On the issue of the Public Service Act, I would like to say that I think it is important that we find a balance in which we can work effectively together at the same time, both across parties and within parties, while at the same time the public can look into the cards. And that's what you're trying to do through that public law. And then I think that the title of this debate means that perhaps we should not go further into this controversy. Let's save it for another day.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112450	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112453	I have a completely different question in a completely different direction. And I have not necessarily answered what I am now asking the rapporteur. However, some of what I think also causes criticism in public is that huge block formation, that is, one block against the other block. And when we're going to a parliamentary election, it's either Lars Løkke Rasmussen or Mette Frederiksen, i.e. those presidential election-like campaigns. And that is something we are discussing at the moment in the Alternative. In other words, I am absolutely convinced that all parties in this Chamber can put forward a suitable candidate for Prime Minister. And with regard to the issue of dividing the parties into those who want government responsibility and those who do not want it, I really believe that all parties want government responsibility, if they do not agree with the political basis. But compared to this whole dynamic with the fact that we've ended up where the national elections are ultimately about either one or the other, isn't that too poor?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112604	Yeah, well, it's gonna be really fast. It's gonna be too unmanageable. And one of the things I experience when I travel abroad is this great wonder how in the world you make it work in a parliament where there are so many parties and where the government rarely has a majority behind it. And I think we may have a tendency to talk it down ourselves, because if we compare ourselves with very large parts of the world, we have a very motley, complex parliament. Then it is true that in the election campaigns it very often ends up being this little presidential campaign. In particular, I can understand the reluctance to do so when one does not represent one of the two parties with one of the two candidates. But I actually think we're more variegated than we imagine ourselves. I think that when we talk so much about block policy, we are bad at talking about block policy ourselves when we have a camera in front of us. For the reality, when we sit in here we can see that the way we vote is not quite as black-and-white or red-blue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112716	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112720	In other words, when you look back in history, there have been times when small parties have ended up getting the Prime Minister's post, i.e. whether it was Schlüter or radical prime ministers. There the political dynamic has just been quite different in terms of government formation. In other words, does the rapporteur have an idea of how we have ended up in what can be described as American conditions, where there are two blocs and only two prime minister candidates? Why did we end up there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112757	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112800	Sir. Morten Østergaard sat and nodded eagerly before when the idea fell on a radical prime minister. It didn't get the same reaction from me. And I have no desire for the Left to become a small party, but we still have to hold on to the Prime Minister's office. Well, I have no idea how it got there. I know when it did it; it did it in 1998. Yeah, I think it happened back then, and then it's something that's stuck around. And then, in the Left tradition, we are faithful to the party, which is putting forward a credible Prime Minister's candidate, and we intend to continue to do so forever and ever.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112848	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406112905	Thank you. Investigation shows that confidence in us politicians is falling. We are in a democratic crisis of confidence. When we meet the voters in the country and on social media, I am convinced that, regardless of party color, we all face the same prejudices and accusations: we are dishonest, corrupt and full of spin. I am really very sorry about these accusations, because basically I do not agree with the characterization of our workplace. In fact, I think that we in Denmark have quite a well-functioning democracy, because when we look out into the world, are there so many countries that have a more functioning political and democratic system of governance than we do? No, I don't think so. When it comes to us 179 members of parliament, I have to say quite frankly that no, I do not generally experience my fellow Members of parliament as corrupt, dishonest or full of spins. In my three years as a member of parliament, I have actually experienced the opposite. Politically, we disagree on a lot, and fortunately for that. But I actually find that what constitutes the greatest common quantity for all of us is a sincere desire to create the best possible society. Why, then, do we experience the violent crisis of confidence? I think we are simply doing this because we are not making enough effort, and because perhaps we are a little too often forgetting to be vigilant about the speciality of our democracy and invite the electorate to join us at Christiansborg. Instead of creating more openness and giving voters better opportunities to look at us in the seams, we are closing the door on them. This applies to the Public Service Act, and with the new Party Support Act, we do not give voters the opportunity to look at politicians in the cards and see who is actually funding our election campaigns, what special economic interests are hiding behind us. Democracy and openness may well be costly, and it may be difficult, but if we have as our common objective to overcome the mistrust that prevails to politicians, it is worth opening the door more to the public and creating more openness. Because we must die and torment to restore confidence in the people's rule and we should have nothing to hide in here. If we do, all warning lights will have to blink. The Danish People's Rule is quite basically so good that it deserves more transparency, so that voters have better opportunities to keep track of how politics is created. And when it comes to parliamentary politicians, I think we should be better able to talk each other out as well. We can have political disagreements, too, so that sparks strike, but we should insist more on taking the ideological, political debate rather than squirming around in details, and I think we really do have very good conditions for that. Because frankly, I think we're better than our reputation. It is very well known that we in the Enhedslist want more openness, that we want a change in the Public Service Act. We want full transparency about the cash flows in Danish policy and more transparent and fair terms of pay and pension, but it does not, of course, do so alone. Neither I nor Enhedslisten should patent solutions because there is no quick fix. Therefore, on today's occasion, I would just like to welcome the fact that we are now taking the debate here in the finest Chamber of Democracy, because this is perhaps the best way to start restoring confidence in us politicians if the voters can see that we take their concerns seriously. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406113310	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There do not seem to be any brief comments. Next in line, sir. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406113324	Thank you to the President-in-Office for that. This is an important debate and therefore thanks to the alternative for raising it. It does not come out of thin air, and perhaps we can also mention here that, following the conference that was mentioned, the Bureau has initiated a thorough coal excavation or an investigation into the credibility of politicians, because there is indeed a serious concern about that development. And then you have to ask yourself why and how. I put a question to Mr. Uffe Elbæk, and sometimes you can become wiser by grasping your own bosom. I have spent most of my life in voluntary association work and actually imagined that I enjoyed a degree of trust in credibility and in keeping appointments and such things; that I could be counted on. Now it may be that studies could be carried out that I am not right that I enjoyed that trust, but I do believe in it anyway. And I actually think that's values I've tried to bring in here, that's to have the same rules of the game that led to that location. Yet you are part of the picture that is in here, whether you have committed it or contributed to it, because apparently there is something about the communication of the pictures coming out of this house, and that is why I do not think we can talk about it. It is very diplomatic to say that it is all our own fault and something like that, but I think we need to talk honestly about the images being disseminated, that is to say they are conveyed by the press rolling round the clock and that conveys the conflict. The Prime Minister mentioned this, that is to say that it is not the cooperative government that is being communicated. It is not the case that it gives big headlines that today the Danish Parliament has adopted legislative proposals by a broad majority. After all, it is the conflict that is being spread and it is becoming almost constant. I am sure we are also contributing to this, and I am not going to apologise for it, because we are doing so, and we may also sometimes be setting up for something that we should not do because we do not have the courage to say no, and when we contribute there are examples of it. The latest media settlement, which was asked about, was leaked to the press almost before it was adopted by the government. As rapporteur, we are left a little grudgingly thinking: what is happening here? What is the purpose of this? This means that you get a number of snapshots out, fragments, and instead of a coherent plan, which was the intention, you get it served in bits, and then you can be offended by those elements, and then they have bitten, that is that now they have adopted it, and that is ridiculous. Then it's left, and a lot of effort is needed to change that picture. So there we ourselves are to blame, because we may need to feed the press or have something for good or trade-exchange with a journalist, or whatever the hell it is that is going on when someone feels called to do that kind of thing. There are several factors that, I think, affect the situation we are in. During this period, when we say it has gone downhill, the social media have also developed violently. Today there has been a huge debate about the pensions of ministers on Facebook, where you are certainly not burdened with facts, so you make a good contribution to the jante law by messing around in legislation that is ten years old and driving it up to the present time, and it is not taken into account that this has in the meantime been changed until several times here in the Danish Parliament. And the fact that members of parliament are given accommodation because we live far away is still being portrayed as being subsidised, even though only a few are doing so, and even if it is a phase-out exercise. So it's hard to get the facts on, and it's a good thing, and you can be offended, and that's the quick remarks you can quickly see, and then it's also those politicians who give a shit about themselves. So there are several ways for this picture to be created, and today's debate contributed to the political stage, when we succeed in presenting it today, as if a minister can just retire at 36 years old and get a pension for the rest of his days. So it's been a long time since you've been able to do that. But it is not being corrected in such a process, so there is a new situation, you might say, during the period we are talking about here. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen said that people actually come into this house that is then pleasantly surprised, and that is right. Now we probably can't get the whole population on tours in here, because we're all seeing it. I actually spend all the time I can find for guided tours, which I say yes to, especially school classes, which then get a different picture of the people's rule than what is drawn on a daily basis, with conflicts, because that is not the way we are, and we greet each other, joking with each other and having a good time and enjoying being together. That's the picture that's left when they've been walking around with us in here a little bit. So it's really good, and if it's even possible to expand it, it's important. It is important for the people's regime that they actually come closer than the picture being drawn. And, of course, I am back to the fact that it is the press that conveys the picture, and not ourselves in this way, and that is why we are also discussing with the press at the moment how to remove some of the bad pictures that the press agrees with us there. It could be when you see a bunch of journalists running behind a politician and plunging them into a corner with 10 microphones, or it could be when someone has no comment, you have already sent something, even though they have said that they have no comment, and then they are left there and are perceived as someone who wants to hide something. So there's a lot of pictures, and we're actually taking that seriously, and we're discussing it with the press, that is, how we get these bad pictures removed in this house. Now we've got these red cords that look like a major traffic accident when they're set up, but it might still keep better order than it could before. But it has come from the fact that these images have been bad, and this is, I think, a common interest, and I would like to express my satisfaction at that, in other words, we have a dialogue with the press in this House at the moment on how we can do something about it together. Because I also sense that the press itself is not interested in it continuing. There are both joy and anxieties. A pleasure is that these studies show that there is indeed confidence in our democratic system, because you are actually happy about it and you believe in it, and it is so evident that you put them into the system that you are a little unhappy with. What concerns me then is that young people in particular are sceptical about the credibility of politicians. This would suggest that in ten years' time we could risk having studies worse than those we have seen now if we do not do something serious about it. I do not think we can find the answers here today, but I just think we need to discuss from what we ourselves see and believe is the problem and then together try to find solutions. And now I think it's time for me to hold, I see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114105	Thank you for that, rapporteur. There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114113	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. When I was at Mette Frederiksens's 40th reception downstairs 1⁄2 years ago, Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil said something in a speech that I felt very much. She said that in the 20 years she had been in politics, the biggest difference is that in the old days, when you were called by a journalist, you had a few days to think about what you had to answer and so could get to know things, you have to answer more or less on the phone today. That speaks in terms of what the rapporteur says in relation to the social media and the speed of progress. When the Social Democrats launched their foreigners' initiative a few months ago on a Sunday night, when, like, it was just opened up to what was in it, and then there was a press conference on Monday at 8 p.m. 11, we agreed internally in the Alternative that we would only make a statement after the press conference, after reading the report, which meant that we were not mentioned anywhere in the press afterwards in relation to how the parties dealt with the issue. That is what the conditions will be. Could it be imagined that we could also look each other in the eye in here and give each other more time to respond to political proposals, announcements and what is happening in the world? In other words, that we could somehow agree in here that we are not just running with the press running out there, but that we are also taking responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114232	After all, we could give ourselves some time by adapting ourselves differently in this house in a number of situations. If you say you have no comment to make on the press, who is waiting outside the group room, then that is what is being sent, and then you are suspected of having something to hide. And otherwise it has already been sent immediately. And that gives you some pictures. It is therefore no secret that there has been talk of finding certain areas in which the press should be in. Other things could then be agreed, and I would still like to discuss whether it could not be possible to take some steps in that direction so that we get those bad pictures away. And then it is quite right that we ourselves could contribute something more to saying: I would like to think about that, or I report back, or something else, instead of always standing by. That is absolutely right. But perhaps it is competition between politicians that means that you have to go first, because otherwise you may not go at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114328	Thank you for your answer. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen mentioned that on Monday there will be a meeting where we will meet with the press, and there we can at least take some of those ideas further if it is that there is support for it. I have a completely different question in another league. Finally, the rapporteur mentioned that one of his main concerns is that young people have so little confidence in politicians. It's just a question I don't know, but isn't it also a little supposed that young people should have a distrust of politicians in order to be able to go out and make change and like shake in us, when we sometimes need to do things in a new way?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114405	Yeah, they may have to be more skeptical. However, when it is an assessment of the political situation, it is of course worrying that it is already well developed among young people, that you are already tired of the politicians, but now you have chosen. I actually think it's a little strange, because this very house is becoming increasingly composed of politicians, you might say, at their own age, that is, younger and younger, with whom they could identify, one should think. So it's weird. I'm just sticking to it and I think it's troubling. If it continues, the results of the studies will be worse and worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114439	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114443	Even though it's annoying, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, I would nevertheless like to pursue the question of public opinion in relation to the way in which power is exercised. Because I know that we have taken a very similar view here to what the Liberal Alliance has had in relation to the Public Service Act. Now the Liberal Alliance is then in government and gets tried, you might say, also that side of the matter. That is why I really want to ask whether the party's basic position on the Public Service Act is unchanged now that it has been tried, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114524	I'm not gonna be able to answer Mr. Knox's question. Morten Østergaard, whether all the individual ministers have exactly the same attitude towards it. We didn't find out that way. But I can say that the party has not changed its point of view or changed its position on it, even after we joined the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114550	I think that is a good thing, because I think that we are perhaps slowly moving forward in the discussions that are taking place. That is why I hope that we can then use that consensus to see if we can go a little further. I think that will be a very strong response to some of the issues that we are seeing here. Then I'll ask about the media too. Is it the view of the Liberal Alliance that there is too much public service, in other words that there is too much critical public funding? Is this the errand of the proposal that has been made, that is to say, that you want less state-funded critical journalism?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114629	We want diversification, and the pool that is being created will then contribute to that. We do this on the basis of a completely sober assessment of Denmark's Radio and the possibility that you could spend the money better and get more for the money. So we have no doubt that it is a perfectly sound solution that has been pointed out now and that it will be very good. There are more players, there are more who can come close to it because the pool is available to other players. So we hope we can do a great deal of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114703	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Morten Østergaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406114710	Thank you to the alternative for putting this theme on today's agenda. Inspired by the Prime Minister's introduction, I remembered that at one point I was an election observer in Albania, where the election president started by telling me that in Denmark a pencil was voted. Everyone looked up a mocker, because it does not make sense that you can vote with a pencil, because then you can wipe it out and change the votes afterwards. It just didn't make sense to them. And in Denmark, we do so that the ink doesn't rub off, so it looks like there are two crosses. And that's another story. But the point is that in Denmark it is quite inconceivable to imagine that some would go in and start changing the ballot papers in that way, and therefore the solution is fine and workable. That tells us something about our society. And for me, it says that the elements of the community we have established are trust in each other, between communities, trust in the democratic institutions. In this context, it is also important that there is confidence in those who make up the people's regime a persona, in other words the elected representatives. And I would like to start by saying that I am actually experiencing a rather weird discourse when you see these measurements, which have also been made today, which show that politicians as such have credibility as a second-hand car dealer, or what is usually said. Then I'm a little puzzled, because I don't think I'll ever meet that way on the streets and alleys. In fact, I always think I meet a very great deal of respect from people who say: you are busy people, what you really are hanging in, it must be hard to be a politician; you must be so much and must be available always. And that's what I think we're really gonna do. So it's not the kind of disrespect I meet on a personal level. We can also see that there is still a great deal of confidence in the democratic institutions. I think that is very important to protect. And that is why I believe that the distrust is more about the way in which politics is conducted, not necessarily the people, not the institutions, but the way in which we fill the framework in our community. And that is why I think it is so crucial that we should all actually allow ourselves to be caught up in the mood that has then arisen today, that it is okay to be challenged by reality and become wiser along the way. The contract policy, which I think was a scourge of politics and which was established at the beginning of this millennium, seems to me to have been awkward because it meant that politicians were more concerned about keeping each other up on contracts than about really solving problems, even though we know that voting for a person is, of course, a power to make decisions on matters that you cannot at the time of voting know what is about, because the world can develop. That is why I think it is essential to discuss openly and honestly how we can overcome it. And there I think there is an external pressure, so there are some who want to create more mistrust among us. In the old days there was a desire on the part of the Soviet Union that we should all become communists or something that reminded us of it, but today there is just a desire that we should go up in the glue and that we should lose confidence in our democratic institutions, in our community in the European Union. And there is a huge activity, among other things. on the part of Russia, to support it. And that is why I think it is actually quite important that we stand guard over the critical public in Denmark, about our public service as an important way of ensuring that there are national points of reference, where you feel you can get news, debate of high credibility. That is why I am deeply concerned about the action taken by the government in relation to whether it really makes some of the problems bigger, or whether we make their business easier in relation to those from the outside who are evil in mind. In any case, it is well known that it is a pattern that you see across countries, around Europe and also outside Europe that there is an attack going on, weakening some of these institutions. And I believe that the critical public is a very important part of our democracy and an important democratic institution. The second is how we do it ourselves, i.e. the internal pressure. That's where I think it's the kind of them and us syndrome that's got it. I could actually best illustrate this with the debate at the opening of the Danish Parliament. A few days before, the Danish business community had had one of their big annual meetings, that of Danish Industry, and there had been the theme of the UN's world goal. All day, it had been discussed how Denmark can do well by doing good and helping both at home and abroad to raise the standard of living in the world in the broadest sense, based on the UN's global goals. Then we met here in the first floor of the country, spent 12 hours discussing, and what came out of the debate was a burka ban, which was then settled yesterday. Well, I think it helps create a picture that while reality passes by, we discuss some things in here that have little to do with the real world, but which are more about a positioning match. And that is, of course, because I disagree with the burka ban, and it is an honest thing that you can have a different attitude, but I think that it is exhibiting part of it to them and us-problem that we can close ourselves in a cheese bell and discuss some very small things while leaving the big questions to other social actors to discuss. And I hope that we can use it as an opportunity to consider whether we could also be a little wiser there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406115253	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406115304	What we are doing today is a good idea, in other words, to reverse the idea of how we are spreading democracy and, as the debate has already shown, there are no easy solutions. As I see it, the biggest challenge is the extremely socially biased recruitment of politicians. Apparently, such an almost exclusive political culture has developed, where the ordinary skilled and unskilled worker has gone on to become the endangered species of sociology in Danish politics. 65% Thus, the population has continued to have an educational background as a skilled or unskilled person, but in the Folketing is represented by approx. 18 per cent, while the 8 per cent who are academics in the population are represented in the Folketing with over 60 per cent. This is not only a challenge for the Folketing and for the parties, but also, to a large extent, for people in the trade union movement. As I often say to them, do not put up with your members being run over into the party associations. For having a broader social composition is of great importance both to which topics we are discussing and to how we are discussing them. Then there is another thing: I think we can actually be better at showing differences in a clear and constructive way, getting better at clear policy and clear speech, where you can say that the hot water should be warm and that the cold water should be cold. I think there is too much tactical clumping in the middle to get as many votes as possible, there is too much talk in political codes that can be difficult to decipher for people outside the political bubble, and I think that should we not also be better at being open to the disagreement that is of course, in governments and in conciliation circles? Of course, a government can only have one policy, but perhaps we should not really be so rigid. Yes, I know that it points back to the opposition, where, of course, it is always extremely fun to try to wed between parties in a government, but we all know very well that there are differences, everyone in the population knows that, and then it is as if it is suddenly becoming so almost politically criminal that there is still disagreement, because some parties are meeting in a government. In fact, I believe that it destroys the work of both a government, it destroys the work of making parties want to become part of a government, and then you run a little round the corner with the electorate, who knows very well what is at stake and who knows very well that there is a difference between the parties. But in the government it is pretended to be abolished, and the same rather destructive logic sometimes applies to conciliation circles. In fact, I believe that it will increase credibility if we become a little more open and tolerant of disagreements both in governments and in conciliation circles. A well-founded democracy requires independent media, and that is why public service means so much. A horror scenario for all of us must surely be those countries in which the people are divided up without a common public, and therefore it may be worrying if the government succeeds in making drastic cuts to, for example, the United Kingdom. Denmark's Radio, and what it may have consequences for democracy. So I would say: yes, we have challenges, but my main conclusion now is that it is not so bad anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406115701	Thank you to the SF rapporteur for the final positive remark. Then we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406115715	Thank you for that and thank you very much for raising this debate today. This trusting politicians is something that fills a lot in the public debate, but it is not necessarily something that has filled so much in this Chamber at Christiansborg. With regard to the purpose of the debate you are raising today, you are pointing out two things: how do we restore confidence in the elected representatives, and how do we increase political and democratic engagement? These are two very important questions, and I really think that all the speeches that have been made today bear witness to the fact that there is no simple answer to the very, very difficult questions, but there are many good answers. I have seen a study made in 2017 by Radius Kommunikation, and it is also one of them where you get a little depressed about their conclusions in terms of confidence in politicians. There we gain the lowest confidence among 25 professional groups. 67 per cent. believes, to a large extent or to a very large extent, that politicians form an important part of society. 6% is only very much or very much impressed by the work carried out in the Folketing. It is not a very high level of satisfaction, one might say, with the work being done in here. I do not think there were many at another workplace who would be satisfied that only 6%. was satisfied with the quality of the work they do. One of the numbers that also made me a little thoughtful when I saw it was a figure that showed that only 15%. to a large extent or to a very great extent believe that politicians speak a language that is understandable, and that is something we can do something about. That is tangible, it is something that we can change without it taking a great deal. It just takes us to talk a little more out of the bag. I remember at one point I was presented with a study which showed how the Danes understood the word outsourcing, and that is a word that has been used very much in the political debate. There we had asked some of the Danes who had, I think, it was a short and a medium-term education: what does the word outsourcing mean? What most guessed was whether it was an accessory to Chinese food, i.e. some kind of sauce that was eaten in connection with Chinese food. Try to think about how often politicians talk about outsourcing, in other words completely over the heads of the people who listen to the political debate, and that is just one example. As rapporteur in the green area, I often talk about biodiversity. I'm not sure my mom and dad know what the biodiversity means. I think they understand that it is important that there are earthworms and beetles and butterflies and everything else, because it is important for our whole system, but I am not sure that they understand what biodiversity necessarily is and there we just have a challenge in here. We talk over people's heads, and that's too bad, because it's so easy to do something about it. In connection with last year's Constitution Day, I studied an article by Kristeligt Dagblad. There they had looked a little at this politician thing, and there they had found Niels Banke's Political ABC from 1953. The very first sentence in it says: there are many people who are guided by politics. It was a book about politicians in 1953. This shows that there is no new phenomenon of politicians, but some other platforms have come to express this politician. Perhaps once it was in the assembly hall that you could express the frustration. Now it's on Facebook and on Twitter. It's become a little easier just to send out a quick vagina, you react faster and more impulsive, and I think that makes it clearer to us with this politician and with this lack of confidence, even though it may in fact have existed for many years. I have also seen a study from Epinion in relation to the causes of politicians. 32% answers that the reason they have politicians is because politicians make untrustworthy promises and promises. 17% Only politicians think of self-interest. It's almost what makes me most sad. Then 15 per cent answer that this is the tone of the political debate and 15 per cent. believes that it is because politicians do not answer questions. That is of course very interesting, because there we have some of the answers to why there is no confidence in politicians, and of those who are appointed here, it is clearly the matter of self-interest that concerns me most. I have a lot of respect for the work done by some of the political youth organisations a year ago, on 22 March. Sir. Uffe Elbæk also mentioned it a little. It was all the political youth organisations that pointed to seven political promises. I think there is a lot of perspective in the seven promises. I myself also signed that I would abide by them: this admitting when one is wrong; being honest about the fact that the results achieved are the starting point for compromises, that is the result of compromises; and this seeking influence and results is the basic conditions for all of us politicians. We will be better off, as someone mentioned earlier, to take more of ideological differences, dare to stand by, that we can look at things differently based on the different views of society that we now have. There is no simple answer to how we get rid of this. In the Conservative People's Party, we chose to support these citizens' proposals because we thought it was an exciting initiative, it was a innovation in our democracy. It wasn't without thought. For can it then give more politicians when a citizens' proposal is put forward, for example, to abolish the education ceiling and the Conservative People's Party stands on as proposers, but does not support the proposal in the end? There we also have a responsibility to each other to respect the fact that you can be a co-sponsor without necessarily supporting the very content of the individual citizen's proposal. I think that we should all start with ourselves, and there are, in fact, a lot of people who have said that very, very right and very, very wisely today. None of us make mistakes. None of us do not contribute to politicians sometimes, but if we start with ourselves, we are at least well at work, because none of us are flawless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120421	Thank you. And there are brief remarks. The first question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120426	Thank you. And thank you for a very fine speech from the rapporteur. It is good to see some examples of the fact that the word politicians has existed for many years. One of the things you can praise Enhedslisten for is their rotation principle, which means that when you have been a period in the Folketing, you have to get out and oxygenate a little. This is not something we do ourselves in the Alternative, and I do not know whether we will come to that at some point, but the idea that you have to go out in reality and talk to some people in the goose-eyes of real people is certainly not alien to us. In relation to what the rapporteur says about some people thinking that a politician is in here just for his own gain, I think somewhere, it would help a little if we talked more about him. Too often, when you get close to people, you find out that the individual has something on his mind or is passionate about a bigger cause. So my question is actually more: could one imagine that together we could work on some models of how we can get to the people more? Sometimes you have to take a month's leave, or I don't know. I don't have anything that's finished. But with regard to the idea that we politicians should all be more involved in society, does the rapporteur agree with me that this could be something we could look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120542	I think it's an incredibly exciting thought. My own husband was at one point employed a place where they earned the Sabbath for each year they had been employed. And it used many people, for example, to further train themselves. What I am saying now is absolutely free from the liver and not discussed with my parliamentary group, but I think it would be extremely exciting if, when you had been sitting in here for four years, you had earned one month's leave, which was to be spent just visiting people, visiting environments, becoming wiser, sucking up, perhaps further training in some areas that may be important for your political work. It's one of the things that's hard to get time for in everyday life in here. Sometimes I just have to say that it may also be ruthless to be a politician because we are criticised as a stand when there are only ten people in the Chamber. And if you can see that not everyone is there for a vote, we are also criticised for it. But we are also criticised when we do not get into the country and when we do not come out and visit people. And that is a schism which also sometimes makes it difficult to be a politician. But I think it's exciting to think in this about somehow earning the Sabbath or leave, which was just to be spent on skilling.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120653	The questioner hasn't checked in and has no further questions. The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120659	Yes, and with Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen's permission will allow me to continue with some interest in whether we should also do something now that we have had a good time talking about it this morning. And I also agree with all the words that Mrs Mette Abildgaard said on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. After all, I think we had a fantastic arrangement about the Public Service Act before the Conservative People's Party joined the government. It was also an example to me that we actually tried to show up not with a fixed and finished solution, but invited us to build together a bridge between those who are very dependent on the law of the public: journalists, and politicians who look in the cards without the result being given in advance. I believe that this type of process is important in other areas too, so that, whether it is about vulnerable residential areas or something else, we are in dialogue with those involved. However, I would actually like to ask the same question as I did to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, namely whether the Conservative People's Party has the same opinion today as when we had that arrangement. I have great respect for the fact that compromises have to be found in the government, but I would really just like to ask about the party's basic attitude to the public law: is it the same today as it was then?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120820	The Conservative People's Party continues to believe that some of the restrictions made in relation to the Public Service Act at that time were going too far. I myself was one of those who stood in the palace square down here and demonstrated. That was before I was elected to the Danish Parliament, and incidentally also the only demonstration I have participated in in my life. There have been some political debates on this and some parties have wanted to change some, others have wanted to change less. I must also say that we have a party chairman who has become a minister and who I think has also received, what can be said, an understanding that there are some of the processes that can be difficult and that this work space is needed. And there must be room for that too. However, the Conservative People's Party still believes that too much was tightened then. We want to help roll back so much of what can now be agreed in the conciliation circle. But we also have respect for the fact that there is a conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406120916	Yes, that is what is, and indeed we have respect for it. Therefore, the consideration is, of course, whether one can always be concerned with trying to keep things together and see if one can achieve some results together. But I also think that when we have such a discussion as this today, it is also natural to link it to this debate on the media. One of the reasons why Mrs Mette Abildgaard and later the Conservative People's Party were so critical of the public law was that it gave the media less favourable conditions. Can Mrs Mette Abildgaard say with her hand in her heart today that the media issue that the government has presented does not in a similar way give less favourable conditions to those who have to look at us in the maps of the state-funded public service media, which must now be cut so dramatically, regardless of whether they are called DR or otherwise called something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406121016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406121018	I think it should be possible in all possible ways to deliver good quality and critical journalism for the 3 billion. DKK, which Danmarks Radio is going to get to the future. With the rest of the game, some funds are being transferred, yes, and funds are being removed from some places, but there are certainly also being added elsewhere, among other things. with this six-fold public service pool. But I also have to say just one thing: we are discussing confidence in politicians today and politicians. To be quite honest, I would say that I do not think that this is something like the discussion we have had on the Public Access Act that gives politicians the power to do so. I think it gives the reporters, but I don't think that sir. and Mrs. Denmark out there has politicians who disagree with the revision of the Public Service Act that was made just to be completely honest. I think there are quite other things at stake in their view of politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406121110	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then all the parties have been given the floor up here, and that is why I am giving the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406121120	Thank you for that and for a good debate. Thank you again for taking the initiative on the alternative. Mrs Mette Abildgaard said that some of the things that may give rise to insufficient regard in the public are when we sit only ten in the Chamber. But I'm glad I could count myself out to be twelve, and the press room is empty. But this is an expression of the fact that we are living in a new and modern reality, and I had thought about whether I should make a big deal of this with the fourth state power taking an interest in this important social debate. But I can see that they do. Ritzau has actually referred from the debate, so it can be done even if we are not so many physically there and good for it. We have come quite a long way and have been discussing citizens' proposals and government readiness, where I fully agree with Mrs Christine Antorini that it also matters whether we can stick to the tradition that has always been in the Danish Parliament that parties, as they are most, and not a minority of them, will bid and take responsibility. Because of that it also follows that we can not just be clear, clear views, but, as a general rule, per person. We must seek the compromise and not just to offer easy solutions to complex problems. And I think that part of what we are struggling with comes from the fact that if we create an expectation that problems can be snapped away, what they know they can't, and therefore we don't get them away, we don't meet expectations. And I guess it's all very general that quality is about meeting expectations, and that's why I think that people's image of us as politicians is about the same thing, i.e. whether we live up to and do what we say. Are we delivering on what we promised? Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen also made it a point, that is, that you must keep what you promise. Respect has been another key word that has been repeated in all contexts, self-respect, respect for colleagues, respect for complexity, interaction with the press. There have been so many angles to this matter, and one is tempted to say that for once it seems that we have all been in agreement, at least in the analysis. And I guess the analysis really also shows that it doesn't look any worse. Well, allow me to bring in that nuance now that we have such an open debate. It beats me that when you ask the Danes if they are satisfied with the way democracy works and the last time you did it was in the autumn of 2017, there is 92 percent. by the Danes who say so. It is the highest share in the European Union that expresses general satisfaction with the way democracy works. And we are part of the way democracy works, that is to say the political parties, the Folketing, us politicians, and that is why it is of course a little funny that there is great satisfaction with democracy, but there is less satisfaction with the main players in democracy. We can then think about this for a while, but it should not be a shadow of the fact that in many ways we have a really well-functioning democracy. I also share that view, Mr President. Morten Østergaard had a personal experience of a schism between some statistics and some mistrust, and saw the picture you encounter when you meet the Danes themselves. And I also have a general experience of that when I speak to the Danes. Of course, they may just be friendly that they generally express themselves nicely about you, i.e. about the members of parliament, so that there is general respect for the effort being made for how hard work is being done. I have heard that more than once when I have come around in business circles, and compare pay and conditions. There is a great deal of respect for the work done by the Members of Parliament. That's why somewhere there's a schism between it and the dry speech of the numbers... and here I'm passing on Mr. Morten Østergaard's experiences and then adds my own, which I think is shared by several in this Chamber. It is just to say that our starting point may not be so bad. It does not shake the fact that there is a challenge, and questions are what we should do. Surely we have not found the definitive answers to that in today's debate. But on the other hand, I do not hear that agreement dies out as it normally does. There's quite a lot you can bring. There is a recognition that we all have a responsibility to uphold democracy and create a healthy political battleground. That is one of the points that has also been made again. So it is permissible to disagree and to refrain from putting wrong motives into one another's shoes for that reason. It's okay for opinions to be broken. That is quite legitimate, and that is what democracy and the rule of the people are all about, and we all have a responsibility to ensure that it can be lived out without derailing the debates in one way or another. While I was listening myself, I was thinking that I have a great deal of confidence in everyone who has taken part in the debate here today. And that's how I generally see that we have it here in the Folketing. I very much agree with Mr. Morten Østergaard, who said that trust is really the foundation of Danish democracy. I feel that I trust that when we reach agreements or political agreements, we will stand by them. It is a basic condition, and I have complete confidence in it, and it is extremely rare for that trust to be abandoned. The truth is that Christiansborg couldn't work at all if we didn't have this trust in each other. It has also been spoken of as something that seems surprising, that is, when we open the Castle and invite groups in; the intercourse and tone between people in here; the collegiate unity next to the debates. It is surprising, but it should not be, because it is just a basic condition, just as it is a basic condition in society as such, because without confidence Denmark would not work as well as it actually is. That is why there are a lot of positive things to take from the debate here today, including the joy that, despite the challenges, we are the nation of the European Union that has the most trusting population in terms of assessing whether democracy is actually functioning. So I do not have to draw strong conclusions from it, and I do not think it has been the expectations of the alternative either. Nor has there been any proposal for adoption, but it is therefore a breathing space and an opportunity to reverse words and ideas that matter to all of us, and I hope and believe that we have all become a little bit smarter than when we arrived. And I also believe that we can all take the many important points that I have tried to suggest here in key words, from today's debate into further work. And if we do, and if there is just a little bit to sit down, then it has been a very good debate and a good way to end the week.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406121911	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406121915	The Prime Minister referred several times to the fact that confidence in Denmark was very high compared to other European countries, but one of the places where we may have a challenge is that it is not always that confidence in European cooperation is equally high. I have found with some satisfaction that there seems to be increasing support for our membership in the light of the Brexit discussion, but somewhere I think there is a tendency that in the great democracy, what involves several countries, what is the international community of law, confidence in democratic agreements and the great community is a little less good. Does the Prime Minister have any thoughts about what we could do differently from what we have done so far, in order at least to increase confidence in the democratic principles that I believe to be the case in more than any other international organisation in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122031	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122033	Here, too, we actually have a sensible starting point, because the Danes also have good confidence in the European Union and its institutions. One must always be careful, and especially from the speaking chair of the Folketing, to stand and pour out something one thinks is ready knowledge. However, I believe that I have seen such a graph plotting confidence in national democracy and the European Union, and then you actually get such an ideal axis, that is, you have equal confidence in both, or you have much more confidence in the European Union than you have in your national parliament. If I don't remember it quite wrong, Denmark is kind of spot-on on this central axis and nicely up as a nation that, in essence, has confidence in both national and European democracy. I am also delighted, on a very sad background, namely Brexit, that this support has increased, and this may show a point, namely in this with complexity and easy solutions. There has been a time when the European Union has just grown and grown, in other words in its membership, the gains have also followed, but we have not really claimed them. We have been able to look at Brussels and bureaucracy and red tape, and only at the time when Britain is starting to pull out will it be clear to everyone how complex it really is if you are not there. This also gives you a reflection of the fact that all those simple slogans that it is the EU's fault and that it is the EU's responsibility are just cheap. On some sad background, I sense that support is increasing. It is also on that basis, and I cannot say more about that now, that I have indicated that the government intends to make contact with the Folketing shortly and initiate a slightly broader and renewed European political debate in Denmark, because we need that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122228	The question I have been saving at the end, and that is not to destroy the good mood, is about what I also mentioned at the beginning: is there a place on which the Prime Minister can say today that the Prime Minister has become wiser? It might just as well be in connection with this with the easy solutions in the EU area. I remember that there was something about a child's check and some strawberry pickers, and when you got into government, I guess the child's check wasn't really possible anyway. That is why I would just like to ask it as an open question, if not the question of the European Union: is there a recognition today from the Prime Minister that, in relation to some of the things we are discussing here, there is something that should have been done differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122311	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122312	[Sound Outlook]... become wiser either by that experience that I have drawn, confirming myself in what I have always meant, or by knowing that what I mean today is nuances of something I have meant earlier. So I've gotten smarter on all parameters. For the children's check, it is still the government's ambition to work for an indexing of the welfare allowance. I think there are signs that we have some momentum on that too. I've got one of them. I note with great satisfaction that the new German Government constellation has taken this view, so that we now also have a German alliance partner on board in this view, which is the Danish Government, namely that services exported should be indexed according to the purchasing power of the countries to which they are exported.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122402	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122416	I just want to say thank you for a really, really good debate. I sincerely saw that there has been curiosity, that there has been responsiveness and there have been many indications of what we can do better. And that's what was the whole ambition of taking this conversation. It is not to be concluded. I fully agree with the Prime Minister. Of course, there should not be a conclusion after such a debate as we have had today. This is an on going conversation, and it's just an example of how democracy has to be recaptured over and over again. In conclusion, I would like to give you some bonus information, for some of what also made me want to invite you to the debate was that I read the book called "How Democracies Die" which is based on an American reality. But what was kind of an eye-opener to me was that the examples of democratic collapse around the world, far along the way are not due to military coups or other forms of violent takeover of democratic institutions, but in fact are because democracy dies from within. That is because democratic elections undermine democratic institutions. It's just a little bonus information. I can really recommend the book. And then I just want to express my sincere thanks for the conversation we have had today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122547	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate has ended and the question has also been closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122558	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122615	Thank you for that, President. We have dealt with the matter of a new holiday law in this Chamber before, so it is one we all know very well. The law on holidays also stems, as we know, from good discussions between the social partners and a subsequent good result and then also from a good debate by a broad majority in the Folketing. It is a holiday law which is more contemporary and where young people or new people in the labour market do not have to work for a whole year before they can take a holiday. They're actually gonna be able to do it right away. At the same time, we are also ensuring a transitional arrangement which will enable this to be done in a way that will not force more companies to close down. So all in all, it's a really, really good arrangement, with which many in here are also very pleased, and with which many outside these walls are also satisfied. Today, we must ensure that the benefits, such as holiday allowance, holiday allowance during maternity leave and unemployment allowance for flex-jobs during the holiday, are adapted to the new holiday legislation so that they continue to be guaranteed the holiday they have always been entitled to. We must remember that we are all entitled to vacation and that we all need vacation. This also applies, of course, to those who did not have a job where they could earn holiday money but who were on some form of service. In fact, I think this proposal has succeeded. Another improvement that has been made is equal treatment for pensioners and early retirement pensioners as regards their pension size during the year of payment, so that in future no one will receive a lower benefit, regardless of whether the holiday money is taxed during the year of payment or not, in other words, if you are going to have an early retirement pension or a pension, it does not matter in relation to your future benefit, how much you get in holiday money, i.e. whether they have been taxed in that year or not. So, with these words, of course, I will be very happy and look forward to 2020 when the new holiday law comes into force. I am sure that many young people will also look forward to it. My own daughter thinks it's a shame that she's started, because she would have liked to have. But I also have another young girl at home who thinks this is gonna be really, really exciting and good. So I think we should all welcome this and congratulate the social partners and all of us on having a new holiday law. I would like to say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122842	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122849	Thank you, President. I think that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen made an excellent speech and came around a little about what this is about. After all, it is precisely a follow-up to the law on vacation at the same time, which was introduced into the vacation law. It is then in other areas where it has been adapted. I'm not gonna drag this out of my way, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has mentioned what this is all about, I just have to say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122920	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406122927	Thank you for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for having presented the content of the draft law in an excellent manner. That is why I must refrain from going into detail. The Left supports this bill. This is a follow-up to the agreement we have made on the new holiday law with a simultaneous holiday, which gives all employees the right to paid holiday. These are the consequences of what has an impact on a whole range of other matters that previous rapporteurs have outlined. The Left strongly supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123014	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123021	Thank you. At the same time, when agreement was reached on a new holiday scheme with a simultaneous holiday, it was agreed that the rules on holiday allowance, holiday allowance and unemployment benefit should be adapted and adapted to the new holiday law. This has happened with this proposal. We agree in the Enhedslisten that it is sensible to adapt the rules on holiday allowance and the other benefits to suit the new holiday year and the new holiday period. However, we believe that there are several parts of the proposal that are not very appropriate. Both Danske A-kasses and LO point out that it will cause great problems and a lot of trouble both for members and for the cashiers, when vacation money is to be earned and calculated on a regular basis and at the same time there is a requirement that all paid holidays must be paid before the vacation allowance can be paid. Danske A-kasses and LO also point out that there will be problems in calculating holiday allowance when a member works on reduced time. There is no doubt that the administration of holiday allowance will be considerably more complicated than it is today, when a final statement can be made annually of both the daily allowance paid and the holiday allowance paid. Therefore, there is a need to organise the rules so that they are as simple to administer as possible. Here you could with great advantage take Danske A-boxes with you, sir. Minister. We are pleased that the rules on holiday with unemployment benefit have been considerably simplified. It is also good that entitlement to holiday money should not affect the calculation of a national pension and early retirement, but should also apply to housing aid, early retirement and flexible allowances. We reject the proposal that the State should compensate employers by reducing private employers' funding for ATP. That doesn't make any sense. There are several outstanding questions to which we want answers, among others. why you can only earn and spend 16,6 days with holiday allowance during the transitional period and why you cannot derogate from the rules that all paid holiday, including paid holiday during the extended holiday period, must be paid before the holiday allowance can be paid. I hope the Minister caught that. That is why we shall wait for the final vote on the proposal after the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123254	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123304	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 192 ensures that a whole series of benefit laws are adapted to the new system introduced with a simultaneous holiday. After all, the bill has a number of virtues and excellence which the rapporteurs of the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party and the Left have already examined and I agree with you so I will not make much extra out of the matter, but just say that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123343	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123404	In the alternative, we have voted in favour of the new holiday law on holiday time, and it is clear that we will of course also vote in favour of the technical changes that follow up on the new holiday law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123420	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123432	In the Radical Left, too, we support this more technical law, which is the result of the new law on holistic holidays, which we also warmly support, and which means that we can now, as an employee, have holidays from the first year on the labour market when we reach 2020. It is a very fine agreement that the parties agreed on, and it is good that we will have all the necessary legislative changes implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123507	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123514	Finally, we have modernised the holiday money system. A great deal of thanks is due to the professional partners in the labour market who made the agreement that formed the basis for the holiday law, which introduces what we call a vacation at the same time. Today, we must ensure that public services are adapted to that law. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123538	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123549	I can tell you that we also support the bill. This is a really boring bill and I am glad that the Minister has something more exciting on the agenda here afterwards. As far as the legislative proposal here is concerned, there are consequences that are necessary, but we do not see that there is so much political explosives in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123616	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123624	Thank you for your comments on the bill here, which quite rightly translates the part of the agreement that is called "Affiliate that all employees should be entitled to paid holiday • New holiday scheme with simultaneous holiday from October 2017. I shall also be the first to admit that this is a very technical legislative proposal, which follows up the changes to the holiday rules that we adopted in the Folketing in January of this year with the new holiday law, the introduction of a simultaneous holiday and the law on the administration and administration of holiday allowances. The draft law, which is now being examined, follows up the vacation agreement by adapting a number of benefit laws to ensure coherence in terms of the acquisition and organisation of holidays, whether you are employed as an employee or, for example, as an employee. are available with unemployment benefit. The transitional arrangements proposed in relation to holiday allowances and maternity leave shall ensure that the unemployed and employees are transferred to a simultaneous holiday at the same time. This is done with the necessary adjustments in accordance with similar principles as a transition to vacation at the same time as under the holiday law. Moreover, the principles of the right to leave with a benefit in connection with the bill do not fundamentally change. The draft law also ensures that private employers are compensated for the liquidity loss they suffer as a result of the introduction of a simultaneous holiday. All in all, I believe that the draft law helps to ensure a more complete holiday system that relates to all relevant aspects of one's working life. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your very constructive cooperation with Parliament's parties on the agreement we made in the autumn, and not least also for the Committee on Holidays, which was the reason why the two legislative proposals which have now been adopted could now be created and, secondly, for the proposals to be dealt with here in the coming months. So I think it can be both happy and proud that we are now modernising our holiday legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123830	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123846	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group)
ParlaMint-DK_20180406123902	This, on the other hand, is one of the most important discussions and reforms we have ever had in this time. The whole idea of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs was to get more people into work and more to support themselves. The whole idea of the resource cycle is precisely a tool for developing the ability to work, if possible, together with the citizen in a secure environment and with the citizen's full understanding and involvement. If a person is too sick or too weak for that, yes, of course, one should not set such a course in motion. Then he must have an early retirement pension. Nor, as we have seen, should we put people in a process of resource development because we do not just know what to do with them. A process of resource development must make sense, otherwise we should not. It is simply not going well enough out there, and unfortunately there are far too many examples of this. I think I feel like a lot of other people in here. When I see some of those examples out there or in the press, I take my head and think: What the hell is going on? We believed in the conciliation circle, and I did so myself, that we could manage by means of letters of orientation, advice, various attempts, where we even gave money through the rate pool. And yes, there are also some municipalities that have become good and better, but there really are still many examples of municipalities that interpret the law exactly as they want. That is why we politicians at Christiansborg must take responsibility as we do now and stop this and take care of all the sick people. They deserve that, and that is why we need to make the law more precise. With the clarification, we stick to the intentions of the legislation, which I think there are a lot of people who agree with us. You can get and now I'm going to get an early retirement pension without first having to go through a process of resource development. I repeat again, because it could be that some municipalities out there are still in doubt, and then I think they should listen to what I am saying now: you can get early retirement without first having to go through a process of resources, and it must be clear from the efforts made in a process of resource development that there is a clear expectation that the citizen can benefit from the effort and develop his ability to work. I hope somebody was listening. I would like to thank you for all the consultation answers, which are almost all positive about the changes, but which still have a huge concern about whether this is helping and whether the municipalities are correcting. And I fully understand that they do when I look at who is worried: these are the organisations that are just the mouthpieces of these people, the mouthpieces of those who are being chased around in the system, people who should just have peace. I understand that there has been a lack of confidence in the municipalities and a lack of confidence in the reform and that they are in doubt as to whether this is working. I understand that, but I have no doubt that it will work. First of all, the attorney general has no doubt that the clarification is in line with the intentions of the law. The lawyer also believes that if you do not understand it, you simply interpret the rules incorrectly. I admit that this clarification was needed, because you can see that. Many of the municipalities which, in my opinion, actually did this wrong ended up being right by the Ankestyrelsen and winning the case. But now the Ankestyrelsen says that it will make them change past practice in relation to who should be in resource sequences. They also say that with this clarification some of the decisions they have taken would have come out differently. So now I look out again at the cameras and hope that there are some in the municipalities who are listening to me: Dear municipalities! You wanted clarification. Now you've got this clarification that you wanted, and now I expect, and now we also expect you to give these people the treatment they deserve. Is this all right with regard to the reform? No, not at all. More is needed in order to make the reform as good as we wanted it to be, as several people have pointed out in the consultations. The evaluation and negotiations are starting now, and here, of course, I and we as a party also have a lot of proposals to help these people even better. I would also like to thank all those who have had a meeting with So, yes, we are voting in favour of clarification, but we are still keeping a close eye on the social democracy whether this works well enough and if it does not, then we are calling for the matter to be looked at again. So we are going constructively into these negotiations now to ensure that more sick people are helped and, above all, treated properly and decently. That is why I think it is a really, really good day and a really important day, and I sincerely hope that the municipalities are now starting to adjust. Now they have got what they wanted, or at least there are some of us who have to keep an eye on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124403	Thanks for the speech. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124409	Thank you, President. I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen about something. Now it was mentioned that an evaluation had to be started. This is, of course, a clarification in relation to early retirement, but I missed something about flex jobs. Is this one of the things you have to look at: that no one is being tested down to less than 1 hour in flex jobs, as bedridden and all that? Is that one of the things that comes in the next rebirth, because I don't see that it's in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124437	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124439	No, what is included here is precisely to avoid what we see, i.e. that you are being chased around in exceptionally bad resource cycles. That's also why we've brought this part forward, so that it could come into force on 1 June; that's why we've done this. The great evaluation, which I am also sure Mr. Bent Bøgsted has seen a lot of papers coming out. It will then have to go through negotiations and then through the Chamber and then come into force later, and there we will have to discuss everything else. And by everything else, I mean everything else, it's flex jobs, it's early retirement, and that's all that's part of that reform. Then Mr. Bent Bøgsted, of course, also says that it depends on how it ends politically and what you agree on. But I will guarantee that everything will be discussed in those negotiations; I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124527	In other words, we will not get a hand in the fact that there will be changes on the flex-job part of the reform. The changes that are here with early retirement will be adopted today, and that also seems to be feasible, but we do not know anything about the flex-job part, and Mr. Nor can Leif Lahn Jensen say anything about whether anything comes through. But I assume that Leif Lahn Jensen is 100% aware that there are also problems there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124559	Well, I think this is the case I have been most involved in the 6-7 years I have been rapporteur, because fortunately there are a lot of people who have spent time explaining it to me. So I think that I now know a lot of things about this matter, and I also know where the problems are. And Mr. Bent Bøgsted knows that this is not the way politics works. You cannot know where it ends and does not end after a debate. But I want to guarantee that some of what is important to us is the early effort; it's treating people properly in this system, and it's looking at the individual and making sure they get better. And if they can't get it, they're gonna have to get that early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124632	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124636	Thank you. After all, it would have been great if the rapporteur had listened to the many objections that there were when the reform was made. Well, it's not like they've surprised quite a lot of people in this country, apart from the conciliation circle. That's one thing. Another point is whether the rapporteur will try to give an estimate of how many new people will have access to early retirement with the changes that lie here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124705	I cannot, of course, put a figure on how many more it is; I think that too, Mr President. Christian Juhl knows. However, I have no doubt about this, and it can also be seen from what the Minister has written that this will give more early retirement, but no more than what it really should, in other words, in relation to the intention we had at the time. For now we are hitting exactly what was meant by the reform, and the purpose of the reform was precisely that if you were to have an early retirement pension and were too sick for those resource cycles, you should have an early retirement pension. And that means that those people who have drowned through uncommonly poor resource cycles and should have just had an early retirement pension a long time ago will get it faster. So the only thing I can say in answer to that question is that there are more people getting early retirement and that hopefully no one will get through these poor resource cycles if they just had an early retirement. But exactly what that number is, I just can't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124806	In other words, the rapporteur is moving on as loose a basis as the minister in this area. Because I asked how many new people were expected, and not whether they would get away from some things, or what do I know? I'd like to know how many new ones. We'll have to wait for that. Then it might be that I could ask a question to which I could get an answer. What kind of proposals does the Social Democrat rapporteur have that he is going to try to get into these negotiations? That could be pretty interesting to hear. Could the rapporteur reveal what these are? And could it be that we could then spend our time helping each other to get them through, rather than having the division of roles that has existed since the reform was made? So that we have carried the criticism into the Folketing, and now the conciliation circle has recognized that there were problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124858	With all due respect for Enhedslisten's great work, I do not believe that only Enhedslisten has carried the criticism into the Folketing. Because there are a lot of these organizations and people who actually do. So don't take credit for it; I think we should give it to the organizations and the sick people who have approached us every day. I want them to have it. Then I would just like to say that what is important to us is an early effort and a more inclusive labour market and a proper case-by-case approach to these people. These are some of the things that I would like to focus most on when we get this debate under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124932	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406124943	Thank you for that, President. This bill is one of the things we've been looking forward to for a long time. For a long time we have had a major discussion about what should happen in that area and where the mistakes were. We have had major conferences with a great many listeners, we have had questions about this, and in this connection the Danish People's Party has had a good collaboration with Enhedslisten on the conferences and questions, so I would like to thank you for that. But all the problems that have been have come to the surface. This is, of course, positive, and I would like to thank the conciliation parties behind the early retirement and flexible job reform for listening to what has been said after all. Whether that is good enough can be difficult to say, because what comes here is of course about clarification regarding early retirement. But just the fact that it is stated in the law that you have to decide whether there are any opportunities for development for the individual before they are sent in the course of the resources, is a really positive thing. I hope, then, that the municipalities will read the legislative changes well and that they will live up to it. Of course, it is to be feared that some municipalities will not live up to what is meant by this, and if they do not, I hope, of course, that the minister is ready to strike down the municipalities that are not following this. 'Cause we saw earlier, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen also mentioned that instructions were sent out where the municipalities looked at it; they did not care about it and ran their own line. Well, I hope and believe that it has now been clarified so much that they cannot just run their own line so that they comply with what is intended by this legislation. And if they do, they are good and positive measures. But if it is enough in the area of early retirement, we can of course find it difficult to assess before we have seen the law come into force and it will work. Because we should avoid the bad examples that we saw from among other things. Struer, where there was one who was not considered at all for early retirement, although she was very, very bad. We have also heard from other sources that the municipalities allow people to leave for a very long time without sending them into resource sequences. And in this regard, it was a very good thing that we got the pile turned around with those who went on cash benefits. There we found a lot of people who shouldn't be there at all and who needed clarification. This is positive, and it is a development that continues. What is missing, and which I also asked for just now, is the effort on flex jobs, i.e. the assessment of how much can be done in a flex job, or whether it is an early retirement that you should have, because it is not really part of this rebirth here. I understand that when you evaluate the entire legislation, you look at the flex-job area. Because we'd like to get away from getting into bed-ridden internships or part-outs to work. If you can just wrestle half an hour out of someone who's sick, that's what you do with flex jobs and that's under investigation there. I hope and believe that the conciliation parties will also look at this seriously, at least until proven otherwise. The Danish People's Party can support this bill because it is positive and, after all, it is an improvement in the existing law, and we have been working on getting others to believe for a long time that there should be some changes. And then we'll have to wait with patience and see if that's enough. You may have doubts about that, but we hope and believe that it will be enough until proven otherwise. Now the law first has to come into force, and we need to be sure that the municipalities start working after it, and then only then, in the autumn, we can see some results of this. However, as I said, the Danish People's Party is voting for this bill because it is, after all, an improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125409	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125416	Thank you. I'm really happy to have this bill in my hands today, because it's an important bill. I do not want to go into the details of the draft law; this has been well explained by the previous rapporteurs. However, I would like to make it clear how important it is for us to have a fight with the excessive variation that has occurred between municipalities across the country. Because it must never be the case that it is the postal number that determines whether or not a citizen can have an early retirement pension. Of course, that is not the way it should be. There may be no doubt that we have all heard of meaningless resources, and I also think that we have all been watching the screen when TV 2 has shown the dream of early retirement. So the conclusion is very clear: unfortunately, we have to recognise that it is not always the right hand that has been reached by the citizens who have needed it. For it is, of course, unacceptable that sick people with no hope of a future in the labour market should be placed in a long-term process of resource development. It was never meant to be. So I hope and believe that with this bill we can also put an end to a number of people being dragged through a long process, where reason suggests that there is no prospect that they will be able to return to the labour market. Nobody's served with that. Therefore, it is also so crucial that the legislative proposal makes clear to us when a process of resources is relevant, so that no citizen is dragged through a process if it is quite obvious that the ability to work cannot be improved. This is quite in line with the intentions behind the reform, so I think it is quite appropriate that we should now put action behind words and get it right. For, of course, a process of resources must make sense to the citizen. That is why we are fine-tuning the legislation. We are clarifying our original intention and removing the doubts that have been raised about the legal requirements for documentation in connection with the granting of early retirement. These are very sensible measures which can make a concrete difference for the sick citizens where the labour market is not within reach. Overall, we continue along the path that has so far produced good results, but we ensure that the municipalities reach out to the people on the extreme edge of the labour market. We owe this to those citizens who have great challenges. Then I salute the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support this bill. Unfortunately, you have not been able to be here in the Chamber today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125654	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125659	Thank you. In the alternative, we have also read consultation answers from a lot of organisations that speak on this legislation, lots of organisations that know about it. And, of course, we note that the large user organisations, the large civil organisations such as the Job Centre's Victims and the Next Helpers do not think that the changes in this law are sufficient to create some differences. I interpret it as meaning that they think it is virtually ineffective. But I also notice that the KL and the Socialists are practically shooting down these changes from the start, and I interpret it as almost ineffective. At any rate, they have serious doubts as to whether they will have any effect whatsoever. There is my question: if not even the authorities responsible for managing these small adjustments believe in them, how are we to believe that they will have any effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125747	So, my assessment is that there are a large number of citizens who are now no longer being forced through a process of resource and will be granted an early retirement pension on this basis. This really means that there are some people who are now being granted an early retirement pension and no longer have to go through the course of resources, and thus there will also be fewer who will go through a process of resource development. Well, that's what the DA's looking at. In other words, the Attorney-General has taken note of this matter even before we put forward the legislative proposal, to ensure that it is clarified and clarified in the right way. I therefore welcome this. The Ankestyrelsen has even said in its hearing reply and has, of course, understood the message that their practice is being changed, and I think that is a very, very strong signal. So I am therefore in doubt as to what the purpose is actually with the message of the National Association of Municipalities in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125856	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125858	It is clear that you have to ask KL about it. But now the rapporteur says that a large number of citizens will receive early retirement instead of having to go through these endless resource cycles and endless job training courses. How long is that row? In other words, since we are so sure that there are citizens who will benefit from this, does the rapporteur not have some assessment of how many it is and what economic consequences it will have?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406125923	I am not in a position to give the exact figure of how many more people will now be granted an early retirement pension on this basis and will not be forced through a perhaps long-range process of resources. We have to see that when we see this change of law in practice. However, I have an experience that there are many citizens who will no longer be charged with a process of resource management where it does not make sense. And I welcome that with satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130000	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130003	I have a question I would like to ask, because on page 7 of the draft law on the impact assessment it says that neither financially, administratively nor otherwise, either positively nor negatively, does it have any consequences, and that is why it is interesting to hear what the rapporteur of the Left thinks, because the Left is, after all, government-supporting. Can we say whether it is seven people, whether it is 700 people, or what do I know will benefit from this proposal? That's one thing. The second point is the question that Mr. Bent Bøgsted traveled: How will it affect what has also been discussed, the fact that we send people with a few minutes of working capacity on flex jobs on flex jobs under completely grotesque conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130054	First of all, it's gonna be a bit of a repeat. I cannot stand here today and say a very precise number that will no longer be imposed on a course of resources that makes no sense. But the legislation also says that it remains within the original economic framework, and that is why the rapporteur can read out of the draft law that it has no economic consequences. However, it is kept within the financial framework that was intended when we made the reform, and it tells me that more people will now be granted early retirement at an earlier stage than today, and that fewer people will be sent in a process of resources that makes no sense, and I very much welcome that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130146	I also asked another question: what effect would this have on the really grotesque course we have had on flexible jobs? Within the economic framework, yes, thank you to the rapporteur! It is true that that framework has not even been filled in, and that is why there is a great deal of room for manoeuvre, and it has worked harder than was expected, and that is why we are here today, and that is why the financial framework has not been exhausted at all. That's clear enough. Therefore, it is also interesting to know what effect it has, especially for those people, because is it 7 people, or is it 700 people? This is quite interesting for the many, many people who have now been dragged through these courses for five years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130230	In any case, I think it should be noted that the Ankestyrelsen states that they simply discard decisions in principle on the basis of the draft law we have before us today. So it will have a change of practice. As far as the content of resource development is concerned, we have to discuss it when we have to follow up the conciliation circle on the evaluation, and I would like to say here today that there are conditions in which people are being sent in the course of resource development, but where the content is certainly not sufficient in any way, and we have to deal with that and do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130312	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130321	Thank you very much, sir. President. It is positive that the government and the conciliation parties finally realise that the early retirement legislation that came into force in 2013 is not good enough. But when you look at how long they have been about it, the result is shameful. It is being introduced that future progress on resources should be relevant and that there should be a development perspective in relation to the ability to work. It is a good thing that the conciliation parties finally recognise that it has not lived up to a great many processes of resource development. This has also been documented over and over again in the five years that the reforms have worked, through terrible examples in the media of how municipalities treat seriously ill citizens, and by innumerable representations to the Folketing of unhappy citizens who have been forced to go through these processes, even though they have often become more ill by it. But these small changes are also all that the conciliation parties have been able to achieve. The basic errors of the law have not been corrected. Early retirement may still not be granted unless it is documented or it is quite obvious, due to particular circumstances, that his or her ability to work cannot be improved by participation in job clearance processes, processes of resources or other measures such as activation, rehabilitation, treatment. This is exactly the wording that has been repeatedly used by the municipalities and the Ankestyrelsen to refuse early retirement. It cannot be excluded that the citizen can develop his or her ability to work, he or she is repeatedly written in refusal and in justifications for the fact that citizens should instead have a process of resource development on top of the long series of work tests and other measures that citizens have already been through. How will the citizen defend himself against this? How does the sick citizen prove that he or she cannot develop working capacity sometime in the future? Of course you can't. In its hearing answer, the Ankestyrelsen maintains this understanding of the law, which is also its wording. Early retirement can only be granted if the development of working capacity can be ruled out. This is not reassuring for future complaints. That is why, unfortunately, we will continue to see horrible examples of people who suffer from death, people who suffer from brain damage, young people who are unable to develop, being sent in one resource after another or in mini-flex jobs, even if they have only a few minutes of working capacity per week. That is why we do not agree with the rapporteur of one of the conciliation parties who has said that the legal position of citizens is strengthened by this proposal. That is not the case at all. The Minister was also very honest when he launched the announced legislative changes. He said: the amendment of the law does not extend the right to an early retirement pension. It is a matter of a smaller share early retirement pensionists being awarded earlier. Because it is expected that the municipalities will now use the possibility that has always been there to grant early retirement in special cases where it was quite obvious that the ability to work could not be developed. The proposed amendment is obviously so small that the Minister can indicate the number or cost of the person concerned, and not a number of rapporteurs. He merely congratulates himself on the fact that so far there have not been as many early retirement pensions as originally provided, so there is room for giving a little more without conflicting with the austerity objective which was and is the real driving force behind this reform, namely saving 2 billion. kr. in 2020 and EUR 4 billion; kr. in the longer term. As numerous consultation responses from all disability organisations, the trade union movement and a number of other interest groups point out, this draft law is completely inadequate. If we really want to improve citizens' legal certainty, we must look at the proposals made by these many organisations. This is true, for example. the proposal from 61, inter alia: professional organisations behind what is called ValuegReform, in which I would particularly like to highlight the proposal that an hour limit should be introduced so that a working capacity of 7 hours and less gives rise to a legal requirement for early retirement. This also applies to a large number of proposals from the LO, FTF and AC, and this applies in particular to a proposal that is repeated in a large number of consultation responses, namely that the least that can be done is to reverse the burden of proof. It should be the case that if the municipality wants to send citizens with significantly reduced working capacity in the course of resource or other measures, it is the municipality that must make it probable and justify that citizens can develop their ability to work to the extent that citizens can support themselves, as well as the municipality must be able to point to specific job opportunities. It should be a minimum to demand it. Whether or not in the Enhedslisten we vote for the bill as it stands. At best, this is a tiny improvement for a very small group, and if we can confirm it in the legislative process, we will vote in favour. However, I would like to warn the conciliation parties not to take it as an income for them to have done the job. They haven't.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130844	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130848	Now I had to press in in good time, and there was a hint of an answer at the end. It was a violent criticism of the entire bill. But what does Enhedslisten want? Is this a step backwards? If you assess that, I understand the conclusion to vote against. Is that what you're thinking? Or there are bright points that make you want something else after all, even though Enhedslisten uses 99.9%. of the time to criticize it. But what are you going to vote for?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130917	I shall try again: at best it is a tiny improvement for a very small group, and if we confirm it in the legislative process, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130929	There is no question from Mr. Karsten Hønge. That is why I would like to thank the rapporteur and pass on the floor to Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406130945	Thank you. It is, in fact, a great personal pleasure for me that I have been allowed to take part in the discussion of this bill. Because it not only interests me politically, but also interests me professionally, I have spent quite a bit of my time trying to penetrate into how things could go as wrong as they have actually gone with the flex job reform. The fact is that the whole process we have been through has highlighted a paradox. Although the Folketing is almost unanimous on how matters should be put to the public, it has proved almost impossible for the Folketing to put its will through. There is, of course, plenty of documentation in the work of the law and the work of the committees which describes for anyone who is in doubt what was actually the intention of the legislature. But it has not actually been possible. As if reality had been bewitched, cases and details have continued to appear that no one in the Folketing has ever wanted. This has puzzled me very, very much, because the last time I looked into the constitution, it was actually the Folketing that decided in the end how things should be settled in this country. No one over and no one next door. But that has not been the case in practice. It is just now that one could talk about such a mini-constitutional crisis when the Folketing cannot get its way in a democratic country. But it has not been able to do so, and it has puzzled me a great deal, both as a politician and as a professional who has a social science education. Whether we have an end now, as most people say, or whether we prepare for a cowardice, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur suggests, will of course show up. But in any case, it is now the case that early retirement can be granted in certain circumstances without having participated in the process of resource development, and that it can only be implemented if there is an expectation that efforts will improve citizens' ability to work. The whole balance between how the documentation requirements are to work, so that there is proper procedure, but that there is also a human process and that the human aspect is maintained is also clarified much better than it was in the past. I have a very, very great wish that we can get out of this strange mini-constitutional crisis where a parliament cannot get its way in a democratic country. And with those comments, of course, I have also indicated that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131242	Thank you, there are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131247	The rapporteur belongs to a conciliation group which says that there will be a great improvement in the early retirement reform here. We just don't know how big it is. There will be many more who get early retirement. We just don't know how many. It is not enough to be able to read any significant economic consequence of it. Can the rapporteur understand that this proposal may seem incredibly loose and unpredictable in relation to how it will work on a problem as big as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131326	In fact, I do not think it matters that you refrain from giving an exact figure. Because I have now been sitting in a lot of debates, multiplying an estimate with another estimate and multiplying the two estimates with a third estimate, and then there is a whole conciliation circle with officials on the one hand and politicians on the other hand and discussing in all seriousness a situation in which we have multiplied three estimates with each other. I can't stay serious when you do that. So that one says that one uses one's ability to draw logical conclusions instead of coming up with something that looks like precise numbers, I think is very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131407	It seems a little like a free round when you claim that you make such an improvement, but you can say nothing at all about it • nothing about percentages, goals, yes, nothing. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur: if it is now the case that the authorities responsible for achieving these practical improvements, which seem to be possible, are shooting it down from the start in the consultation answers, how are we to believe that it is going to get somewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131433	I cannot ignore the first remark. In other words, we have spent a great deal of time this morning discussing political culture, and I therefore agree that there is a problem with political culture, because the reasoning is apparently no longer recognised as having any weight. It is only numbers that are recognised as having weight. It seems that reasoning is useless. I think you should definitely be able to do that. As far as the interpretation of the law is concerned, at least in law studies, it is taught that the intention of the legislature, as it appears from the drafting and comments on the legislation, and the examination of the committee are of major importance. So there is no doubt as to what the legislator's intention is. Everyone who has to interpret the law according to what is taught in the law study has to comply.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131519	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131523	I understand that the rapporteur thought that I was putting up for a cowardice. In fact, I suggest that the conciliation circle understands that the flex jobs and early retirement reform contain a number of problems that need to be resolved. One of the problems has been tackled here, namely the problem of being sent through a series of courses. Perhaps this reform will, fortunately, speed up the early retirement of some people. I do not see that in this proposal there is the possibility that more people can get their early retirement. I do not see that the problem of meaningless flex jobs has been addressed in down to a few minutes. Nor can I see any attempt being made to touch the burden of proof which is currently in the hands of the sick person. When's it gonna go to the county? Because then we would start to build legal certainty for the sick and not just take account of the system. It doesn't have to be a coyote. A coyote is a series of paragraphs that come after each other. A large section that comes after this, where you correct these errors, which have been pointed out but have not yet been taken into, could be interesting. When will the rapporteur address these problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131642	After all, the Flex-job and early retirement reforms stem from a wide range of dilemmas which the Enhedslisten does not seem to recognise. Because there are some really big dilemmas on the question of neither giving too many nor too few early retirement, so to speak. And it's about finding the right balance and trying to get those dilemmas to dissolve as well as you can. If you do not recognise that there are these dilemmas, then it is clear that the actions that follow are not recognised either. In other words, there is a whole circle of conciliation which, as I said in the comments and the preparatory work for this law, has explained what the intention is, and then there are some improvements which make Enhedslisten apparently intend to vote in favour. I think that this should be borne in mind above all.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131726	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131728	It is clear that Enhedslisten will vote for even the smallest improvement it has always been our principle and against even the slightest deterioration. We recognize the dilemmas there are, but we have just not wanted to let the sick people pay the price for the government's dilemmas and that applies to changing governments. We have not wanted to say that legal certainty must be pushed aside. That's why I'm saying there's a number of other things, and if we're gonna take them in as little bits as this, it's true that there's gonna be a coyote. For then a lot of small bites will have to be done before we have corrected the legal situation of sick people in Denmark. I would like to say this, and that is why I ask: when will you tackle the other dilemmas? These are just as great dilemmas, but they are dilemmas for the sick people, and it is precisely that it should be the municipality that has the burden of proof. It should be the case that you are not sent out into meaningless flex jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131827	After all, I said that this has also had my professional interest, and in this context it is a difficult challenge, which is that there are both the mistakes you call type one and those you call type two, i.e. both errors where you get confused healthy with the sick, and mistakes where you get confused sick with healthy people. After all, we must try not to confuse healthy people with sick people and confuse sick people with healthy people. It is, of course, the great, great dilemma that lies below that of avoiding both type one and type two and that is where I think we have come very far. I think it is important to avoid both types of errors. I'll hold on to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131903	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406131910	Thank you very much. In the alternative, we are also in favour of the policy of small steps, so it is clear that we will always vote in favour if there is a proposal that will improve anything and create any value for the most weak and vulnerable people in this society. But I have to say that, in relation to this proposal, we are indeed close to an exception. I think this is a microscopic response to a very, very big problem, namely the problem of early retirement and flexible job reform, which means that many of the most vulnerable Danes are dragging their asses and elbows across the bottom of this society. We have heard stories about bed practice in two times 15 minutes a week, we have heard about people who had died while they were in resource sequences, we have heard stories about cancer-sick people who had to beg for an early retirement, we have heard about people with the most serious sufferings you can get, who are parked in resource sequences and job training in front of the welfare system that many have paid tax for a whole life, and which they thought would help them if they needed it one day. It is a reform which has grown up a unique social resistance movement around with large groups such as the Job Centre's Victims, the Next Helpers and Fight Poverty NOW, some of them had hardly existed without this reform. We are talking about a reform which has brought so many sick Danes into contact that 50 professional organisations representing more than one million employees have made a large number of proposals to improve it. The country's five largest municipalities have proposed an adjustment of the reform, the social resistance movement has contributed to countless proposals to ensure the more dignified and decent living conditions of the sick and vulnerable Danes, and yet the conciliation circle comes with adjustments so small that there is a great deal of scepticism among the heard organizations about whether it will work or in fact become virtually cosmetics. From the point of view of the alternative, we have also sent a large number of proposals for solutions, amendments to the reform directly to the conciliation circle. Several of them are fleeing with proposals that have come from other organisations I have mentioned. For example: the length and number of resources and job tests that people need to be forced through could be limited. It could also be said that people with a very limited ability to work, for example. 5 hours a week, must be able to opt for an early retirement pension. You could show that you were ready to take citizens' medical reports much, much more seriously, rather than the municipality largely ignoring citizens' medical history. In the alternative, we are ready to go further in terms of giving citizens the confidence that they should be able to say no to offers and activities that make no sense to them, and then, in particular, to say no to forced activities that only make them worse, as we have heard several times in connection with this reform. We are sorry that a story has emerged in Denmark that people will cheat the system if they get the opportunity. It's wrong. By far, the vast majority of Danes will do their utmost to contribute to the community, if they can in any way, and if we legislate after the very few who will cheat the system, then we make life a nightmare for all those who do not need the system's coercion and empowerment to participate in the labour market or contribute to society. In the alternative, we work with confidence policy because we are sure that by far, the vast majority of Danes are able to think for themselves and best know how to get better and possibly get back into the labour market if the forces and health go so far. We are working to ensure that in the employment system we make provision for help and treatment and job services so good that people accept them without being forced. We are working for people to have the right to say no to activities that make no sense to them. For our experience is that when you allow people to say no, they start to say yes much more instead of fighting the system that takes authority from them. So it is no surprise to anyone that the alternative believes that large parts of the early retirement and flexible job reform should be changed, nor does it surprise anyone that we think that the adjustment proposals made by the conciliation circle here are at best a microscopic response to one of the greatest employment and social problems we have in our time. In the alternative, we will now continue the dialogue with a large number of organisations to examine whether the proposed small adjustments might help some of the many Danes in the system, and if it turns out that there is a likelihood of this, we will vote in favour of the proposal. Moreover, we regret that the conciliation circle has given such low priority to this issue that any adjustment of the reform based on the main evaluation will not take effect until after elections. Well, it has sick and exposed Danes no time to wait for. Your time is short, so I would urge the conciliation circle to speed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132406	Thank you. I appreciate the rapporteur's commitment, but I must also recommend that the rapporteur refrain from using such more anal and latrine words. They do not belong in this Chamber. With these words we move on to the brief remarks, and the first question is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132423	I should like to know if I understood the rapporteur correctly. Did the rapporteur say that anyone who can work wants to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132439	The rapporteur said that virtually anyone who can work and can contribute would like to, and if we legislate on the basis of the very few who do not want to, we make life a nightmare for all those who want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132450	Then I just need to know if one in ten corresponds to the definition of virtually everyone. Because I'm here looking at TV 2/Fyn's website from November 29, 2016, which says: "Ni out of 10 registered non-western immigrant women were healthy enough to work, shows sample in Odense Municipality. Is one out of ten equals almost everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132513	I believe that many, many more would like to contribute. A contribution can be a variety of things. It may be to be something for your family after a long illness, it may be to get into work, it may be a flex job, but I do not share the rapporteur's distrust of the Danish people, compared to so many would like to avoid working if they could. We think it's a long, vast majority of people who want to contribute to this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132532	There are no more brief comments. Was there a question? One came in here. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132546	Thank you. I'm sorry if I was late. I thought I had the pressure. But I just need to hear something, and it's actually a pretty important question. 'Cause I thought I heard Mr. Torsten Gejl say that this clarification comes into force only after an election. I think I heard the rapporteur say that. I think the rapporteur is aware that this will enter into force on 1 June of this year. And the reason we did this before the big evaluation was because we actually thought that this was one of the most serious cases and that it could not wait until the evaluation that starts this spring and then comes into the Chamber this autumn and maybe comes into force next year. We did this just to make it 1 June. So I would just like to ask: is the rapporteur aware that this legislative proposal we are dealing with here is actually coming into force on 1 June? That's what I was wondering. It may be that only I heard wrong; it would please me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132640	Well, the whole process is extremely delayed in relation to the nature of the seriousness that is in this problem. I am well aware that this little delay in clarifying the ambition to have this evaluated a long time before coming into force in June. I'm aware of that. But there will be a main evaluation, which will hopefully lead to a main adjustment, which will hopefully also include the flex job system, which DF also demands and where hopefully we will get a much, much bigger adjustment and get it in place once and for all. And that actually suggests that it will only enter into force after an election at least as far as the main adjustments are concerned, as far as I can judge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132720	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we finished. The next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132731	Thank you. It has been a thorough debate, I think, so far. And some of the points I wanted to make were just made in the dialogue between the two rapporteurs here. For this is the answer to the advanced, smaller part of a very large evaluation, probably the largest one made in the field of employment for a very, very long time ■ of the extensive reforms in the area of early retirement and flex jobs. This smaller part we've done and you could always have wanted it before, but I'm very pleased that it's coming now because it was urgent because the intentions had not been met in several places. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the answer I have received from the Minister to the question I have put to you during the debate. Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène 316, where the Minister replies: "It is therefore also my clear expectation that the draft law will bring about a real change of practice, so that for some citizens early retirement will be granted at an earlier stage and that more citizens will be granted early retirement without having first been through a process of resource development. This is the essence of this change that we are making now, namely that no one who is not in a position to do so should be forced into the course of resources and that more citizens will be granted early retirement pensions in the past and that citizens who are unable to carry out the course of resources will be granted early retirement without having to go into the course of resources, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also spent time emphasising. There is much more work ahead of us when we have the thorough and very comprehensive evaluation; I think that all the rapporteurs, including the Minister, have made that clear in many debates before it here too. I look forward to that and it must be done properly and thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406132956	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur for the SF, Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133004	Finally, at last, the parties behind the legislation on early retirement and flexible jobs agreed to improve and clarify in the law that no one should go into resource development unless there is a realistic prospect of developing the ability to work. So you can say: was it really necessary to make a change of law for something so trivial and something so obvious? Yes, it was necessary. I would also like to say that over the years I have moved hair totes out of the scalp in a mixture of rage and frustration that the municipalities did not correct their proceedings according to the wishes of the Danish Parliament. In the past, the conciliation circle has tried in a number of ways to make the administration of the municipalities run away with the intentions behind the rules. Now we are changing the law and the municipalities must in future treat their sick, vulnerable and vulnerable citizens in a more humane and respectful way. I guess that's not too much to ask either. When we have been presented with the almost endless series of disrespectful and inhumane treatment of sick citizens, I have often considered what part of the body they think about in these municipalities. The only result I have achieved is that it has certainly not been with its head. Instead of tripping threads, we must extend a helping hand to our citizens. SF has constantly worked for a faster and more radical change of the law. The adjustment we are putting forward now is moving in the right direction, but it has gone too slowly and it is not as far as the SF would like, but it is as far as we could come now. We didn't get through big and profound changes this time, but now we're gonna sneak up our sleeves and get ready for the next round of negotiations. The title of the SF will be again: to strengthen citizens against the system. The sick must have more firm rights, and they must be stronger in the face of the system. Early retirement or flexible work can be the life-saving wreath for a better life, and all citizens in Denmark have the right to be treated with care and dignity. With the new adjustment that we are discussing today, the Folketing is taking an important step, but there is a long way to go before the weakest in society have a stronger foundation to stand on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133319	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133323	I thought it was a rather uplifting and real rapporteur's speech, in which I thought the rapporteur was clear and addressed the challenges that, after all, are still missing in this. Some people think that this change is practically cosmetic. I find it exciting that the rapporteur mentions that the rapporteur's party is fighting for further improvements. Now that we are about to make real improvements, can the rapporteur be a little more detailed about what the ideas are for ensuring that those affected by the reform come out of these pinches?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133408	We have a large number of proposals which I know will be among others. Mr. Torsten Geejl familiar. It can be said that the title of the proposals that come from the SF is that citizens must have more concrete rights, so that they face the municipalities more strongly. In practical terms, we can translate this into the six proposals which come from the various professional organizations and social movements. Of the six proposals put forward, SF gives thumbs up to five of them. The sixth requires a somewhat longer discussion, because that is where proposals are being made for a substantial increase in benefits. There we have a little more doubt about how to find the money for it. That is not something we reject, by the way, but we can say yes to five of them here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133457	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133500	Now it turns out in the consultation answers that some of these organizations, i.e. KL and the heads of social security, are shooting this down a little from the start. Of course, one wonders: how is this bill going to work out when some of those who are going to be involved in implementing it shoot it down from the start? What kind of process does the rapporteur think is necessary with regard to the authorities responsible for making this bill work? What's it gonna take? What are some steps that need to be taken to get municipal Denmark to take this seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133530	I certainly understand, sir. Torsten Gejl's question. This is deeply relevant because, as I mentioned before, I have previously pushed out of my mind several hair tubs in frustration that the municipalities were apparently both blind and deaf to the intentions of the conciliation circle. My answer, however, must be that we are particularly concerned with the two which we consider to be the most important responses to the consultation. It is the two parties that work mostly with it. One is the Ankestyrelsen, who himself says that when this law comes through, the Ankestyrelsen will have to change the practice. It's quite important, though. They're the ones who have to work on it. And the other one, which we are close to, is the DA who says that this will lead to a change in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133612	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133616	SF was himself co-responsible for the reform when it was made in 2013 I can still remember it and therefore it is double positive when SF says: We are impatient to get started getting the errors that are in the reform right. Because if everyone who helped make the reform had the same attitude, it would probably happen other than that we just moved this comma today. So I would like to say this as something positive. But I would like to hear: does the SF's rapporteur think that in future we will avoid seeing horrible examples of people who are sick of death, people with brain damage, young people with disabilities being sent in one resource after another or in mini-flex jobs where there is only a few minutes of work per week?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133704	Unfortunately, on the contrary, I believe that I must almost give a guarantee to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl says that it is the opposite that will happen, because our experience with the municipalities is that there is so much difference in treatment around here that I can best summarize it with what I said earlier, i.e. that I cannot quite see what part of the body they think about in the municipalities, but that it is certainly not the head. There is, of course, an extreme difference between the procedure in the municipalities. There is Norddjurs Kommune, where you award three times as many early retirement pensions as you do in the City of Copenhagen. At Funen we have Nordfyns Municipality, which sends back zero decisions when the rehabilitation team nominates to the municipality's pension board, that they have to grant pensions that send the zero back and comply with it and we have Midtfyns Municipality, which sends back one third. So I am quite sure that there will continue to be municipalities that are unable to meet their own citizens with sufficient care and respect and understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133758	Sir. Christian Juhl wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133803	Thank you. That is the opposite that will happen, it is said. Does this mean that if we carry out this reform, there will be more horrible examples of people who are sick of death, people with brain damage and young people with disabilities who are suffering from development being sent in one resource after another? That's how I heard it. I hope not. In other words, the rapporteur said it was because the municipalities will continue to act in this way, but is it not the intention that there should be fewer of these examples in the future? I hope so, and I sincerely hope that I have misunderstood it otherwise I have been very bad at reading this text.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133840	Well, that's obvious. Well, now we're out of logic for the guy that's logic. On the question of whether I could guarantee that there will be no scare examples in the future, I replied that I can almost guarantee that there will be some of them, hopefully none, but I think I can almost guarantee that there will be some municipality that will continue to treat their citizens badly. That's all I answered. This is gonna fix it. Now that I have the floor, I would like to say about the praise that we, as SFs, are advocating these rights to disadvantaged citizens, that if there is something else I am tired of in this context, it is when the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are completely unfairly adorning themselves with the flowers that the social movements give them. Many of us are pulling in this direction... many more than the Enhedslisten and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133922	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406133937	Thank you for the debate and for the many speeches by the rapporteur, which have been made in a debate, I think that very important legal treatment is taking place here today in the Danish Parliament. And why do I say that? For every bill is an important bill, but this bill is an example of how we listen to the concerns that are around the Danish municipalities and thus also the Danish society. After all, the draft law follows up on the advanced partial evaluation of the rules for granting early retirement to citizens, and the partial evaluation, which has also been mentioned by several rapporteurs, focused on the documentation requirement in connection with the granting of early retirement and on the link between documentation requirements and progress on resources. It is quite right that both Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen should do so. Leif Lahn Jensen and Mr. Karsten Hønge says this is something we've been discussing on a regular basis. I can confirm that. I have had the great pleasure of being Minister for Employment for just over a year now, and throughout that period we have been dealing with this problem. This is not an issue that has not been discussed. There have been countless discussions on this matter. There have been conciliation meetings, there have been consultations, and therefore I also think that care should be taken to allow for the view that the responsible parties responsible for the good reform, which was carried out during Mrs Mette Frederiksen's term of office as Minister for Employment, will not respond to the challenges it has potentially posed. Then we can always discuss whether we have done it quickly enough and whether we have been able to solve the current challenges that have been, and it has to be said that a large number of initiatives have been taken along the way. But when we are here today, it is not least in a long discussion that we had, in fact in the last assembly, in May, as I remember, at the time with Mr Tugendhat. Christian Juhl's always industrious and present colleague, Mr. Finn Sørensen, who is not in the Chamber today, not because of not wanting, but because of another obstacle. At that time we had a long question debate on that theme, a good question debate, and already in May 2017 I made it clear as Minister a hundred percent that I was willing to change the legislation. That is exactly what we are now embarking on today, when it is the case that the proposal must ensure that the rules are brought into line with the political intentions behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs that were at the time when the political agreement was reached. It is firstly that in some cases the documentation requirement for the award of early retirement pensions may be fulfilled without the citizen having participated in a process of resource development, and secondly that, in order to be able to be in an entrepreneurial resource cycle, it is necessary to point out interventions where there is a realistic expectation that the citizen can benefit from the effort and develop his or her ability to work. We maintain the intention that, as a starting point, a citizen must have participated in at least one resource cycle before early retirement can be granted. We do this because it is absolutely crucial that we never give up people if there is a chance, and I would like to emphasise this, that they can become part of the labour market. This means that municipalities must focus on entrepreneurial resource processes prior to the granting of early retirement, and that the granting of early retirement in certain cases may be fulfilled without the citizen having participated in a process of resource development. That's exactly what's at the heart of this discussion. I would also like to make it clear today that I am saddened, I am sorry, and I do not think that we can be familiar with society when I see some of the cases that have been in public. I do not know the background to all matters, I do not know all the files, but it would be wrong for me not to say that these matters affect me, and in my world a welfare society must be measured by how capable and how good it is to deal with some of the people who cannot be in the labour market. When we pay such a high tax in Denmark, and when we have such a finely masked welfare society, it must not be the case that some of those who feel the worst do not get an offer of help as well. That is exactly what is the foundation of the way in which I think a welfare society is defined. Even before I tabled the bill and then in this debate, I think it can be said that there are reports from several parties that the bill will have no effect. It is quite interesting, of course, that we can see it before the draft law is adopted, because then we are at least quite forward-looking in terms of how the draft law ends. I am not surprised to see that position taken, but I have not heard a single party today say that they will not vote in favour. There have been clear statements, and I would also like to sign for this in relation to the Danish People's Party, which is not part of the settlement, namely that the Danish People's Party says this is an improvement on the rules currently in force. Sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten, I think, also came to the conclusion that it was an improvement. He let it hover in the air, but I think I concluded it, and I would like to make one hundred percent clear today that this is an improvement on the rules that apply today. Can I document it? Yes, I do. Now, if you care a lot about comments on legislative proposals, and there may be a good reason to do so, you can, and that was Mr. Christian Juhl also mentioned that he had just read the wrong page, go to page 6, where there are economic and administrative consequences for the public, and I read out: "The proposal is expected to bring about a real change of practice, where a smaller proportion of citizens will receive an earlier award of early retirement in line with the intentions of the reform. In addition, if you do not believe in the Ministry or authorities in general, you can read what the Ankestyrelsen says. After all, the Ankestyrelsen is the one who is currently managing the rules, those who sit and guard how to understand what the politicians have said in this Chamber, if it is the case that you cannot necessarily see it fully described in the legislation or answer questions or debate. There is no doubt that the Ankestyrelsen says that this will mean a change in the way in which they have made decisions. Then I do not think we can get any closer; we are talking about that this is going to mean a change. Having said that, I hope for a good and thorough committee procedure here in the Parliamentary Chamber. After all, it does not take place here in the Parliamentary Chamber, it takes place in the committee room. But this bill deserves a great deal of political attention, and it is also crucial that we have not completed the evaluation of the early retirement and flexible job reform. We've only started. But the whole exercise that took on the totally untenable and unreasonable fact that there were people who came into a situation because the law was not clear enough is what we are going to do here today, and that is a really nice political signal to send out. I would also like to emphasise that we are going to follow this area closely. The Danish Handicap Federation, as I remember, has a hearing answer where they write: If you want to make an evaluation, you will also follow this area closely? I would like to give an undertaking today that we will do so. Of course, we're gonna be following this on a regular basis. We are also going to evaluate how these rules now set out, because if you had to ask a critical question, and if no one is doing so, I can put it to myself while I still have the floor, then you should ask how you want to ensure the development that is now going to be after the bill has been adopted. I just want to say that we are going to follow very carefully, in relation to how the municipalities then apply the legislation that is now being created. I think that is what is quite crucial here, and I will follow the discussions that will take place in this regard, because now no one can be in any doubt about what has been sent out of the signal here from Christiansborg, including with the debate that is here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406134822	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406134826	Thank you. I have put a question to several of the rapporteurs, to which I have not really been able to get an answer, so I have been looking forward to the Minister coming to the floor. It is quite clear that more people are expected to be able to receive an early retirement pension, and there is a great deal of reason to base one's argument on it. Then it is that I have been looking forward to hearing what the objective is. Is that a long line? Is that a smaller part? How many is that? Have you worked without an objective, or do you have a goal, about how many of the Danes who are affected by not being able to receive an early retirement pension, even if they have earned the one who will be able to get it after this rule change?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406134904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406134907	Now, I think we should be careful to make it a success parameter for citizens to have an early retirement pension. I can't believe it. Torsten Gejl was up here saying that all people want to work. That is what he stressed in his rapporteur's speech. But that being said, we don't have a number that we can throw out and say with this clarification, that means x or y. But what that means is that some people have been sent through a process of resources before, perhaps potentially ending up with an early retirement pension, which then does not have to go through because it is not necessary. But in my world, you have to work to have a society where the lowest possible rate of early retirement is possible, because it can never be an objective that as many people as possible should have an early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406134950	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406134953	No, Minister, what the alternative means is, of course, that those who cannot work must have an early retirement pension so that they may be able to contribute otherwise to society or to their families. My last question is about something else. After all, there are many who believe that this adjustment is relatively cosmetic and that nothing is going to happen any further. The citizens who are now in a situation where they are really, really ill and cannot move forward in the system, what should they expect from the main evaluation? Now there will be a main evaluation, and hopefully after that there will be an adjustment. So those who do not really believe in this and who hope that something will come to help them, how long do they have to wait? When can we expect these people to look forward to a change? How many years will it take?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135042	When you try to solve a problem, there is always a new one, and otherwise there is no reason to be here as a politician, you can say. Sometimes it's also the same thing you try to solve over and over again. What we are discussing here is, in fact, a good example of this, because it was thought that the challenge had been solved when the reform was being carried out. After all, the plan is for us to start the evaluation with the political parties here in April, and then it is planned that there will be adjustments. I can make this big breaking news public today in Parliament: there will be adjustments in relation to the main evaluation and it will be presented in the next session. There will be new legislation, which will follow up on the main evaluation, in the next parliamentary assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135122	Sir. Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135126	I believe in the Minister when he says that he feels bad emotionally when he sees how people have been treated. But it must have a consequence, because for every day that goes by, there are people who get into this machine. And we have heard from today's debate that there is no guarantee that we will not continue to get a number of these stories. There is a guarantee that a number of people we do not know will come to a decision more quickly as to whether they should be entitled to an early retirement pension. I think we should talk about it this way: right to early retirement. It's not something society wants to force people on. It is a right that we give really sick people in this society, and I personally feel that I would rather give five people too many rights to the early retirement pension than five too few. What must mark a community of law is that we grant the right to a few more, if we are not able to create the system as finely as we like. This reform seems to have had an error adjustment, so that people who should retire in good time do not, and that is what we must have corrected. And there philosophers the philosopher of the Liberal Alliance over...
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135244	Thank you to the questioner. Then there is an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135247	I simply have to say that I did not understand the question that might have been asked. I saw it as a clear political expression of how Enhedslisten views life. I didn't understand the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135255	Sir. Christian Juhl asks for the floor again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135301	Yes, of course I do. These are short remarks, Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: These are not just questions to the Minister, they are also points of view. Then you can choose not to comment on the points of view, or you can comment on them. I have to put a question to the Minister: the main purpose of this reform was to be told by the previous government, with its reform circle, to save 2 billion. kr. in 2020 and EUR 4 billion; kr. in the longer term. I understand that there are also certain social policy initiatives with this proposal, and that is why I would like to ask: is it true that no more people are going to take early retirement, but that some will get through the system a little faster to clarify where they can get their entitlement to early retirement if they are entitled to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135349	In other words, it is very clear to those who have read the draft law that it is precisely based on the fact that it is now clear how it can be ensured that, in certain situations, an early retirement can be granted without having to go through a process of resource development. That is exactly what the whole discussion has been about. I can also confirm that for what Mr. Christian Juhl would like to ask whether you are now making a new break, whether you are changing the rules that formed the basis for the overall reform... that no, you don't do that with this bill, that's one hundred percent correct. It clarifies what was the intention at the time, which was agreed and which has developed incorrectly. And then we come to the second half, which starts here in April when we discuss: is there anything in the overall legislation that requires new legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135437	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for short remarks, and no one else has asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135450	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135507	There are so many foreign companies that come to the country and earn some good money without complying with the rules we have, and then they run away again afterwards. This in no way gets better, unfortunately, and I certainly don't think so, and I don't think very many of us do that, so of course we have to take that very seriously. In order to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate can enforce these rules on e.g.: better working environment for foreign companies working in Denmark, so these companies have to register in what we call RUT, i.e. a register for foreign service providers. It's been in existence for some years now, and you can always ask yourself if this register works. There you can see something quite interesting in the bill: if you look at those who are not in this register, you will see that 57.2%. of them have been given serious instructions in relation to some OSH situation, but if you look at those in the register, you will see that figure is down to 1.5%. So that means: yes, the register works shame and it works very well. The only problem is that there are a lot of people who don't sign up for this register. If you do not do so, you will receive an injunction, and if you do not respond and register, you will be fined 10,000 kroner. It has just turned out, unfortunately, that many companies do not care and fail to pay and that other companies pay, but do not correct and do not sign up for that register, and then they will have enough time to go home before you can follow up on it. They think it's a very cheap way to get rid of it. Unfortunately, there are many examples of this, and this is something that we in the Social Democratic Party have been shouting out at long last. We believe that this is a major problem and that we should actually do something about this. It is, of course, gratifying to see that an agreement has been reached between the government and DF, where it is now proposed to grant daily allowances until this is put in order, i.e. until you register, and that the Factory Inspectorate will pass on information about the workplace to the social partners, who can then follow up the matter. I think this is some very fine small steps to tighten up on these companies that come to the country and cheat and deceive our society. But when I say small steps, it is because, for example, we in the Social Democratic Party want to increase the fines so that these companies will be hit even harder on their purses, so that it will hurt them even more, and in some way make sure that it does not happen again for the same company when they get to another place of work or come back to the country again. They can sort of just run away, and then when they come back, everything is forgotten, and then they can start over. We believe that it is still too easy and still too cheap for companies to cheat and deceive, and here I certainly do not think we should put our hands in. So, with those words, the Social Democratic Party votes for the bill, but I think it can be heard that we certainly believe that we can go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135814	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406135823	Thank you for that, President. This bill is, of course, a tightening-up of the rules of the RUT register, as has also been said and thanks for the positive tones of the Social Democratic Party to tighten up further. It may be that we can work something out together, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. For Dansk Folkeparti has of course entered into this agreement with the government in connection with the Finance Act that there can be tightening up and the Danish Labour Inspectorate can order that you register for the RUT register and that you can get fines of not less than DKK 1,000. daily if you don't. That can then be discussed: is that enough? It doesn't say less than DKK 1,000, so it may be that we need to have a talk about setting a fixed limit that is somewhat higher. We are certainly open to this in the Danish People's Party. What can then also concern us in the Danish People's Party, and which we would also like to have tightened up further and there I would urge the Minister that we have a talk about it and this is precisely the point that if the company leaves the country because they are finished with a task and will not pay, then you will not be able to get the claim in. How is that supposed to be done? Can some assets be confiscated from them? No, you can't if they've disappeared out of the country. And how do you do if they come back and change their company name, because then you can't pursue them? That is why we in the Danish People's Party wanted to be able to say to such a company: If you do not want to register for the RUT register and live up to the Danish rules, you should not be allowed to work in Denmark at all. However, according to the government, it does not seem that this is possible because of EU rules. So if the Social Democratic Party is open to us taking such a fight and saying that if they do not want to comply with those rules and sign up for the RUT register, they will not be allowed in. We have also wanted you to be a company before you started working in Denmark at all before you set foot in the workplace.This is also some of the things that we in the Danish People's Party would like to continue working on. We have also suggested that a deposit of DKK 20,000 should be made when you came to Denmark to work. If you followed all the rules, you got that deposit back. It has not just had a chance on the ground. It is also evidently due to EU rules. So there's something to work on. And I would like to take this opportunity to say to the Social Democratic Party that if they are positive about further discussing these proposals that I have made, then the Danish People's Party is willing to talk. I also hope that the government will change its attitude to this. Sometimes things change. Sometimes you say, "We can't do that, and then all of a sudden you can do it anyway. There's gonna be some changes. There have also been some changes since Brexit, where England has resigned. It might be that a little bit is being opened up so that you can tighten a little further. However, in the Danish People's Party we have agreed this with the government in the Finance Act, and it is an improvement in the RUT register and the funds available to the Danish Labour Inspectorate, so it is clear that we are voting in favour of them. We just wanted us to get something more through in the financial law agreement, but we couldn't. However, it may be that, in subsequent negotiations with the Minister, we may be able to get further action through. And I look forward to having an invitation from the Minister to discuss this problem further, because it is a major problem, and it is, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says a growing problem, and it will not be less over time. We must do something about it, because they must, but we shall vote in favour of this proposal, and then we call on the Minister to continue to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140221	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140227	Thank you. This bill follows up on the 2018 Finance Act between the government and the Danish People's Party. We agree to strengthen the Register of Foreign Service Providers, RUT, which is an important tool in our fight against social dumping. According to the law, foreign companies who work in Denmark must register in RUT so that SKAT can monitor that the company pays tax in Denmark and that the Danish Labour Inspectorate can monitor whether the company complies with the Working Conditions Act. That is why, of course, we must also hit hard on foreign companies who deliberately and consistently fail to register in RUT because they want to fly under radar. Therefore, we give the new Factory Inspectorate the power to require foreign companies to sign up immediately to RUT, and if the company continues not to sign up, the Factory Inspectorate must be able to issue daily periodic penalty payments until the company complies with the requirement. The Labour Inspectorate will also be able to pass on information to other public authorities and the social partners when an injunction or fine has been imposed on an undertaking. I think that is in fact common sense. I think this is a very good proposal, because we need to strike down companies that deliberately and consistently fail to register in the RUT because they want to evade the Danish authorities. We are doing this with this proposal, and the Left fully supports it. I would also like to welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately could not be here, and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140407	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140410	Thank you. I just want to ask quite briefly: is the Left ready to look at whether the fines for these companies are large enough or whether they need to be increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140423	In the Left we are quite satisfied with the agreement with the Danish People's Party that we have made in the Finance Act. We are, in the first place, concerned that we are now having the amendment of the law that will give effect to the agreement we made in the autumn with the Danish People's Party, so that we will consistently get our hands on the foreign companies that are cheating on the weight. We're preoccupied with that. After all, we have agreed on how and how the level of fines should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140459	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140459-2	You know what happens with this proposal is that you have to start over. There might be someone in some company doing something right down here on the street who gets a lot of daily tickets and everything else. They never pay them, but run away abroad, go home. When they come back in six months, or whatever, they're gonna have to start all over again. Doesn't the Left think that's a problem? And does the Left not think that we should tell them that they owe something from the last visit so that we can try to get in the money they owe from the last fines? Don't we have a problem here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140532	The possibility that we are now giving the Danish Labour Inspectorate to issue administrative periodic penalty payments here and now gives us the opportunity to ensure that the money actually comes in as long as the company is in Denmark. I fully understand that if the company goes out of the country the day after, there are no fines here and now. But the intention is, of course, and I insist on that, that we should issue the fines here and now and that we should have imposed the fines on the company. There is, of course, one reason why companies come here, namely that they want to be here and work here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140618	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406140627	Thank you. I would just like to say to the Minister that I should like to say hello to him. Finn Sørensen and say that he is absolutely right that Mr. Finn Sørensen very much wanted to be here because he feels like the majority of other Danes that he wants to, but now I have given the greeting, and I don't think there are many who are so sorry that he is not here as he himself is. So now it's said. L 194 is about administrative periodic penalty payments. The register for foreign service providers, also known as RUT, is one of the few tools we have to ensure that posted companies comply with the country's laws, not least the Working Conditions Act, and this is very much needed. The working environment at more than 57% is quite wrong. of the foreign companies not in the RUT, so that a large proportion of these companies are immediately ordered or prohibited from continuing work because there is a serious risk, for example, of: Fallout. At the same time, RUT can be a good tool for the social partners in order to have a dialogue with these companies on the need to be organised and to respect the Danish model of collective agreements at all. Therefore, the rules to ensure better enforcement of the RUT have also been tightened over the years. And therefore it is good that the government is now proposing a further tightening so that the Labour Inspectorate can issue compulsory daily penalty payments to companies that persistently fail to register in RUT. The case law of the past has been totally unacceptable because it meant that no more than a fine could be imposed for the same relationship. Now the Danish Labour Inspectorate will be able to impose daily fines of at least DKK 1,000 until the error is corrected. That's good. It is also good that complaints about such periodic penalty payments do not have suspensory effect and that the Labour Inspectorate is given the opportunity to share information on these companies with the social partners. However, it is not particularly appropriate that the Labour Inspectorate should only disclose information on the time and place of the labour inspectorate's instructions. Since the Minister himself states that one of the objectives of RUT is to promote the social partners' dialogue with these companies on the Danish model of collective agreements, it would be useful for the social partners to be informed about whether there are employees and, if so, how many. We agree with the LO and the FTF, who believe that the Factory Inspectorate cannot just do this, but we must see no reason for softening in these cases, it is companies that have already been caught up in the act. Finally, we would like the Minister to take a look at the hearing of the Working Conditions Complaints Board so that we can ensure that the resources are available for the new task that this Board of Appeal will have, as companies' complaints about the Labour Inspectorate's orders must be addressed to this effect. After all, it takes both professionals and resources to carry out that task. The Enhedslistens supports the bill, but we hope to get answers to our questions and to improve it in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141007	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141018	Thank you. With Bill L 194 it seems that the Folketing now broadly accepts that harsher penalties are something that works. This is, of course, something that I note with great pleasure. After all, some parties have always meant that, and others have questioned it. But now, with the treatment of L 194, we have some sort of evidence that, at least in some areas, it is now widely recognised that higher penalties are appropriate to combat crime. Then we just need the same circle of parties to recognise it in some more fields, then there has been a positive development in this country. What is happening now is that we are changing the system from the fact that an employer who refuses to join the register of foreign service providers can only be fined for an order to register for the register of foreign service providers. If this is not complied with, daily fines may be imposed until they are properly notified. This is a really, really sensible approach, and it is based, as I said, on the correct assumption that harsher penalties are something that works, and we can of course agree with that in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141146	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141154	Thank you. I shall start by saying that the Radical Left supports this bill, and of course the Alternative does, because of course foreign companies must be registered in Denmark via the RUT register. The social partners then have the opportunity to ensure the enforcement of the rules and conditions applicable to foreign service providers and workers carrying out work in Denmark. This makes sense and it turns out, for example, that the companies not notified in the RUT register have far more problems with their working environment than the companies notified. We need to get that straight. And if it requires fines, in this case we would like to help with mandates from the Alternative, and we would also like to enter into a discussion on what further action can be taken to ensure that foreign companies are registered in the RUT register.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141257	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. The last rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141306	Foreign companies and foreign employees are welcome in Denmark, but they do not have as much as a single hammer punch to do in this country if they do not respect Danish agreements, Danish trade unions, comply with health and safety legislation and otherwise pay VAT and tax. SF wants a social Europe and we fight against social dumping. The draft law will tighten the conditions for foreign firms, and that is a small contribution to a fairer competition for companies to get orders and for workers to get jobs. SF would have liked to have seen tougher sanctions and a more effective follow-up when foreign companies come to Denmark. However, I would like to say that this particular government bill nevertheless confirms the old saying that even a blind hen can find a grain.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141413	With that quote, we thank Mr. Karsten Hønge, and then it's the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141423	Thank you. It can hardly get any bigger with the extraordinary praise from Mr. Karsten Hønge, whom I had to understand, went on the bill. I think that, although it is Friday, we should welcome more than just what we are discussing here today, but in the government we are picking up all the praise that is being given. That's what you have to do. After all, this bill is based on what several rapporteurs have said, namely that the Register for foreign service providers, also known as RUT, has proved to be a good and, above all, important tool to combat social dumping and to support that foreign service providers naturally comply with Danish rules. But we must also recognise that we can improve as we build up more knowledge and gain more experience. Therefore, I am also very pleased to be able to present this bill, which is a follow-up to the Finance Act agreement that the government made with Dansk Folkeparti back in 2017 applicable for 2018. I also took note of the comments made by Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, about the fact that Dansk Folkeparti still wants a dialogue about whether to take further steps. However, I also noted that a broad majority in this Parliament actually recognises the legislative proposal that has now been presented, and there is no doubt that I am going to have a committee procedure in which we have to look at whether there are things that can be made even clearer or even better. It is thus also an outstretched hand for the Social Democratic Party, which I always show kindness to when necessary, and it is most often so. But I actually think that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen had some very good points in the rapporteur's speech. This also applies, for that matter, to some of the other remarks made by the rapporteurs. What we are discussing is that today it is the case that a foreign company which refuses to register in RUT can only be fined for missing or defective notification in RUT. The authorities can then do no more to impose a notification in the RUT in the case of the same service at the same place of work. That is precisely what is changing in the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. The draft law equips the Labour Inspectorate with an instrument designed to improve the ability to enforce the statutory notification in RUT in precisely these situations. In fact, the draft law allows the Labour Inspectorate to issue injunctions and, in particular, daily periodic penalty payments if a foreign company persistently refuses to report correctly in the RUT register. Fines shall continue until the proper notification is put in order or until the work has ceased. The draft law also ensures that an undertaking cannot evade periodic penalty payments simply by appealing or bringing the matter before the courts. It also supports the notification obligation for RUT. Overall, the Factory Inspectorate will have better opportunities to overcome the stinging vessels which, unfortunately, there may be, also among foreign companies. It is important to monitor the working environment, but also to ensure that access for the social partners to ensure proper pay and working conditions for foreign companies coming to Denmark remains sufficient. I think that this bill, taken together, ensures that. Then I can also say, as a comment on the comments made by the Enhedslisten, that we are now having a thorough examination of the committee, but in this respect we will also have to deal with the comments and consultation answers that have been given. I would also like to look forward to further clarification in addition to the consultation note that has already been made. So I am going to initiate that dialogue during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141808	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141811	Well, that's the closest you can get to praise from the minister to me, and it does mean that this Friday ends up fantastic and we can go happy this weekend. So that's super good. I can see that in the answer to Question 27 the Minister also says that it is essential for him that we have an effective system of sanctions. And that is where I have to go and I also know that the Minister has mentioned that we can take it later to challenge a little. Because does the Minister think it is an effective system of sanctions if a company can actually stop paying the daily fines, the large fine of DKK 10,000, run off to the home country and then come back later and start a new job? And then the old debt is completely forgotten and you can start over. Is it an effective system and does the Minister have any thoughts about trying to look at that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141905-2	In fact, I think that the rapporteur of the Left, who is generally a person to be listened to, is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, said something wise, so this bill allows you to create a legal basis for SKAT, so you can build values with some of these companies. That is exactly what makes it possible to go after businesses to a greater extent. It is also the case that they do not necessarily disappear from one hour to the next. Thus, many of the companies that operate and work in Denmark are among others. in the construction sector. So there it is important that we now become even more concrete in our enforcement of these rules. So I have full confidence that the Factory Inspectorate is capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141945	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406141946	Then there is one more thing that I have not quite understood, and it may just be that I have read wrong. But as I understand it, if there is a company that is right down here on the street and works and doesn't meet the requirements, and then they get a lot of daily tickets and then they're done and go to North Jutland and start a new job, then it starts again too. And they don't even have to go home; they just have to start somewhere else because this actually goes to the location. Is that correct? And is it also an answer to the second question that if you are to have an effective system of sanctions, it must at least be easier when they stay in the country? Because then all you have to do is drive to North Jutland and talk to them there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142026	I think all the exciting questions, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen can shake out of his sleeve on Friday afternoon, we can save for committee processing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142038	The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142047	The debate is open. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142109	Thank you, and thank you, to the alternative for motion for a resolution B 67 on school postponement. Specifically, you propose that before the school year 2018-19, the government table a bill that allows parents to unilaterally postpone their child's schooling by 1 year, as well as if parents have a good reason to do so, and this is a sympathetic proposal. However, the government cannot support it. First of all, the resolution is based on the misunderstanding that the rules were changed in 2008, so parents lost the right to decide that their child should be put out of school. Let me make it clear that it has always been the municipal council that made this decision. The 2008 rule changes were about the extension of compulsory education from 9 to 10 years and the compulsory nature of the nursery school. In the past, as there had been a more relaxed practice for school evictions, a political signal was sent in connection with the 2008 legislative amendment that the starting point is that the child should start school the year that it has been decided politically. A change to the current rules can be expected to lead to a substantial increase in the number of children who are exposed to school start-ups. We know that for a number of years there have been around 3%. of the children who have changed the kindergarten class. It is expected that the proposal will entail substantial public extra costs and, if the alternative so wishes, the party may consider bringing the issue up in the context of the financial law negotiations. Let me stress that it is not a success criterion for the government that many children have put off their school start. It is clear that the current system is based on the assumption that there is a good and close dialogue between parents, municipalities, day-care facilities and schools. Parents should feel safe by sending their child to school, and they should feel that their concerns are taken seriously when they want school stays for their child. Because I share the alternative's concern about the sickening of children if there is a strict requirement for the child to have a diagnosis or the like before it can be considered to have delayed school startup. We know that a little more boys than girls get off school and that it is typically boys born at the end of the year. This may suggest that in many places there is a dialogue about the school readiness of children. Once again, I would like to thank the alternative for tabling the motion for a resolution. It is important for us to be able to have an ongoing debate on whether the rules are linked in a way that makes the best possible sense to citizens, that is to say, parents and pupils. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142350	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142354	Thank you very much to the Minister for the speech and to the kind approach to the motion for a resolution, although you do not support it. It is quite true that we have certainly misspelled ourselves in relation to postponement, but it is, of course, a question of extending school law. So where you were supposed to start at school earlier, when you were 7 years old, that is first class, you have to start at school when you are 6 years old, unless of course the municipality gives permission for an extension, and this is about a lot of children. There are several studies showing that this is what worries us that there are many children who are simply not ready for school. 3 out of 20 children starting school assess the latest DEA report is not ready to start school, and it is the kindergarten class managers who assess it. So does the Minister not consider this to be a worrying development in itself? Now we can talk about finance afterwards because I agree that it costs extra but isn't it a worrying development that there are more children now estimated to be non-schoolable when they start in 0th grade?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142453	I think that is a difficult question. There are different developments in society. Among other things: There will be more premature babies, which means that there are many different causes. It is something of fertility and artificial fertilization and all sorts of things that may have an impact here. Is that good or bad? Basically, I think it is very good that we can help childless people have children. It then gives more premature babies and may also have an effect on this. However, my view is that many of those children will be picked up and they will be leveled in the first few years, and some of them may not be until they have started school. Then there are more and more children who have migrant backgrounds, and there are also some who both socially and professionally have some challenges. This is among other things. some of what we are addressing in the government's parallel community action. So there are such different things that are involved. I do not know whether I will say that this is worrying, but at least we can see that there is a development that we can take care of in various ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142605	Thank you. We'd be happy to do that with the government. But I fully agree that it will certainly cost some money and we have not tabled a financing proposal with this resolution. I know that, so if so, it would be necessary to find out who would have to pay the extra money it would cost. But what worries us is that several studies point to the fact that it is not so much the linguistic skills that these children do not master when they start, but that it is the social and personal, that is, one might say, an allusion to the fact that there are simply some people who are not ready for school in maturity. We can be worried that once you've gotten hurt, once you've started school, it's gonna follow you a long time later. So if we talk funding too, will the government be open to discussing this on a longer scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142659	Thank you. Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142659-2	As I said, it is today that it is the municipality's decision, how to deal with this and how to have the dialogue with the parents. If you want to make such changes nationally, it is in the Finance Act where you take it up. The alternative can take it up in those negotiations. Because if you do so nationally, it will have a significant cost side.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142726	Then it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142727	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's words. I would like to ask you about this: if there is a change of practice and that means that more children will start a little later in 0th grade, then you have to go out and find the economy there. I would like to ask the Minister: is it the view of the government that it is the economy that is absolutely central? Isn't it important that kids start at the right time? If so, for some, they actually start earlier, for some, that they start later, and for most, that they start the year of their 6th birthday?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142813	Social democracy is what is called a government party. You sometimes sit in government, and therefore you also know that whatever you want and what your intentions are and whether it's about improvements in psychiatry or school or health care or care for the elderly, it has to be funded. That is why we give priority to the wishes we have, and they are then discussed, often in the context of the Finance Act. And this can also be done in the Social Democrats if we believe that there should be a change in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142845-2	We are a government party and we want to get back into government. But what I was asking was now the attitude of the current government on this question of when children should start school. And we in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is important for children to start at the right time, that is, what is the right time for each child. And that is why I just want to ask again: is the economy the decisive argument? Now I do not know whether the Minister is going to present the economic calculations, but one might also put it differently and say that the fact that there are no children who have to go to class or anything else may also be economic in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142932	Then we need an answer from the Minister. Thank you to the questioner, please go to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406142933	But the current government fully agrees with the social democracy that children must basically start when they are ready for it, and it is a dialogue that takes place in the municipalities every day. And if we had to change the framework for it at national level, that would be a major economic re-prioritisation. And again, social democracy, when it comes to government, can change that. They can also take it up in the financial law negotiations, but until you change it at national level, and we have no plans for that in the government, it is the municipalities that take that balance, and they do that very well in many places.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143017	Thank you to the Minister for Education. There are no more brief comments. We start with the rapporteur's series, first it is Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143036	In the social democracy we want all children starting school to be ready for it, both professionally, socially and personally. This is crucial for the new pupils to get a good start in school and to lay the foundations for good schooling. Fortunately, that is the case for the vast majority of people today. Unfortunately, there are also cases where this is not necessarily the case. That is why we would also like to thank the alternative for putting this issue on the agenda, as the SF has done in the past. We share the concern that the system today always takes due account of the needs of the individual child. The motion for a resolution refers to the study by the think tank DEA, Ready, Ready, School Start, from 1 December 2007. In this you can read that 43 per cent. by the school leaders in the 15 largest municipalities in the countries estimate that 8-9 out of 10 0 students were equipped to attend school in 2016. In a class of 20 students, this is equivalent to approx. 17 of the students were equipped to attend the 0th grade. This is worrying, because our goal is, of course, that all 20 pupils should thrive in kindergarten. Everyone must come along, that is the social democratic vision. We believe, of course, that all the municipalities in the country will do as well as possible for their citizens, not least the children. Therefore, the explanation of the challenges we see must probably be found first and foremost in the squeezed municipal economy. At the same time, we are not sure that the best solution is simply to leave the decision to the parents themselves. We would prefer a child's school start to be decided in close dialogue between parents, day care and school, so that you can have an overall assessment of what is best for the child. That is why we do not want to support the resolution as it stands today. We will not refuse to look at the legislation, but we need a more thorough analysis of what is at stake, just as we need to take account of the economy of the municipalities. Let me give you an example: if we have a large school class for not 20 pupils, but 27-28 primary school pupils; an overweight of boys in the class and thus many 5-year-olds; classrooms that are built for far fewer school pupils; a pressed municipal economy; before-SFO on 1 March for all children who have to start school; and in this specific example also farm toilets, yes, the risk of children getting stuck is incredibly high. And the situation requires action, both locally and nationally. As I have said, the Social Democrats are voting against this resolution, but it does not mean, according to the rapporteur's speech and the concrete example, that we have finished discussing the framework for children's school start-ups and school stays, because we have a common obligation to ensure that all children get a good start to school and that those who need a little extra time are ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143432	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Dorthe Ullemose, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143442	Thank you for that, President. I can also say straight away that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal. We believe that a school stay should be assessed on a professional basis and through close cooperation between parents, day care and school. As it is today, and as stated in the primary school law, all children must start school in the year of their 6th birthday. In 2008, a majority in the Danish Parliament made the nursery school place compulsory. Parents can apply for postponement of school start, but it must be approved by the municipality. The alternative in this resolution is that the law should be amended so that any decision to postpone school start-ups is left to the parents alone, but we do not think that the parents alone should decide that, because it must be in cooperation with the day-off manager and the head of the school. If the child's difficulties are such that school expulsion will be the best thing for the child, parents, in cooperation with the head of the school, can decide. And that's how we still think it's best to do it. We think it is important to have a professional assessment before postponing children's schooling, and we see no reason to change that. As it is today, parents have a clear voice when it comes to when their child should start school. The current rules support that parents and teaching staff in day care are in dialogue about the child's development and maturity. There is now a good balance in ensuring that children's school start-ups are not postponed for nothing and that the child's school start-up can be postponed if needed. There is quite a lot of flexibility in the law today, both in relation to late school start-ups and in relation to early school start-ups, but that does not change the fact that the law as such does not give parents a right of veto, but I assume that the way in which it is managed is in good agreement with parents, schools and municipalities. The Danish People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143639	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143642	Thank you. I am perhaps a little less optimistic about the parents' right of veto, because it is quite true that in the optimal world it is a cooperation in which we jointly find out whether this child should wait a year to attend school. In practice, however, there are municipalities that make that decision on their own. The municipality of Rudersdal, as we have also written in the comments on the proposal, writes that applications can only be accepted if there is a recommendation from the PPR on school expulsion. This means that the child must have been through a PPR assessment and there must be a recommendation from the PPR, even if the parents may not agree. Could the Danish People's Party then support a proposal that said that there should be an agreement between the three, i.e. the parents, the day institutions and the municipality, rather than the municipality being the ones who like to make the final decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143743	We want to help in the work of the committee to look at other ways of doing so, but to give parents the right of veto does not seem to us to be the right way to go. I expect the municipalities to listen to the parents' assessments, as neither they nor the schools are interested in children starting too early in school and thus risk having to go a year later. But first of all, it is a professional assessment that must be made of whether the child is ready for school and, of course, in cooperation with the parents, the professional should be able to find out which pupils benefit from delayed school start. However, we would like to take part in the debate in committee as to whether it is not just parents who should have the right of veto.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143828	Well, thank you. Because what we may be concerned about is whether it will ultimately be a professional assessment by some of the municipalities, or whether it will be an economic assessment that is the basis for choosing to say no to some parents. So it was kind of just a comment on it. But thank you for that and we look forward to working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143845-2	Thank you for that comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143851	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406143856	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the alternative for raising the debate on the start of children's school here on a Friday afternoon in the Parliamentary Chamber. I would like to start by saying that the Left will not vote in favour of this proposal, because we do believe that, as the rules are today, they also support the fact that parents, local authorities and, for that matter, also educational staff in day-to-day offers and day-to-day institutions together. Hopefully, in dialogue on children's development and maturity, they can help to decide whether a child should be allowed to wait 1 year to start school. In fact, I think this is a sensible way of doing so, because in this way it is actually ensured that the educational insights of professionals and, for that matter, also the parents' assessment, hopefully in dialogue, can help to ensure that the best decision is taken on the child's start at school. In the Left, we agree that a child should not start school simply because it is 6 years old, because there are children who need to wait a little longer. Fortunately, therefore, we also see that there are a great many places where you have slipping school start-ups and busy children throughout the year, depending on whether you consider them to be children who are ready to start or, for that matter, children who will benefit from waiting a little. And this good balance, in fact, we in the Left also think we have. I would also like to acknowledge that sometimes, unfortunately, we see some examples where this is not good enough, but I think that instead we should get to grips with the dialogue and talk with perhaps the municipalities that may not handle this properly. All in all, I have to say that I really believe that it is working well far and far along the way today, and that is why we will not be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. I have also promised to welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144120	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144129	In the Enhedslisten we think it is a good proposal that the Alternative has put forward. I have no doubt that it meets a great desire of very many parents who have experienced difficulties in having their child's school start postponed, although as parents they have had a very clear perception that their child was not ready to start school. It is, I think, well described in the comments on the proposal how the municipalities set up barriers to parents' desire to postpone school start-ups, and it can be said that the result is very clear, including from the figures in the comments on the proposal, in the large drop in the number of children who have postponed school start-ups. I think it is very clear that it has become the case that very serious reasons need to be put off school, and this means, in all probability, that too many children are getting off to a bad start. The comments refer to the report by the evaluation institute, and I noticed, moreover, when it came to the fact that there is the interesting phenomenon in a bi-remark that there are very different assessments of the pedagogical consultants in the municipalities and among nursery school managers. After all, the opinion of the nursery class managers is very clear that there are major problems, as one in two of the nursery school managers indicates that there have been more children who are not ready for school, and they compare it with how the situation was 5-8 years earlier, that is, before we had the 2009 legislative amendment. If you look at the DEA report, the problem, as Mrs Julie Skovsby has already mentioned, is that there should typically be up to three children in a school class who are not ready for school, and that is simply three children too much. It's really a shame for the kids who experience having to change the kindergarten class. That's relatively few, you might say the minister mentioned the percentage, but it's 1,600-1,700 children who experience having to change the kindergarten class. It can't be funny, not for the kids, but not for the parents either. And among many of those who may remain, there are many who are going to experience serious failures at the start of school, and we know that if you experience severe failures at the start of school, it can continue through school and into adulthood. This is probably a result, I think, of years of political efforts to bring down the school start age. This is one phenomenon we are discussing, but it has been a general tendency that the school age with the devil's violence and power should be pushed down. Long reports were presented on the matter back in the 1980s and there are some of the parties here in the Folketing who have pursued a very clear objective there. There may be different motives for it, and I certainly don't have to cut everyone over a comb. You shouldn't hear it that way, but there have been a few trends. There has been this faster through-trend, which has, of course, influenced education in many ways, including in this area. And then there is probably an economic problem where I wonder a little, but we have to look at the figures. I am sure the rapporteur for the Alternative will take the initiative and see if it is particularly expensive to do this. Just before I came up here, I managed to look at a KORA report from three years ago, where you could see that the average cost of a child in a nursery class is significantly higher than the average cost of a school pupil. And what is obviously the trend around the municipalities is that you push the children up faster because the kindergarten is cheaper than the nursery and the school is cheaper than the kindergarten. For us, this isn't about finance, it's about the child's best interests, but that this should be very expensive, I find it hard to see. But let's find out. The short part of the length is that we in the Enhedslisten think it is very good that this proposal is being pushed in a different direction from that which we have seen been ruling on the mountain and here in the Chamber. We should not feel that parents should accept that their children are being pushed too early in school. On the contrary, we must help parents, support parents, so that they make the choice for their child, which is best for their child. Against this background, we think that the alternative proposal is a very good contribution to it, and that is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144626	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144636	Thank you. It is not very often that I use my speaking time as rapporteur to talk about what might be called parliamentary procedural issues, but I will actually do so in the discussion of motion for a resolution. B 67. Because when it comes to the way in which the school system is organized, there is a long tradition here in Denmark that it is something that is laid down in some very broad settlements. It is typical, but not always, of conciliation between the current governing parties, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF. The motion for a resolution formally states that Parliament must instruct the government to implement the proposal, but in reality there is something else because it states that the alternative requires the public school circle to do what the alternative says. I am well aware that the alternative wants a new political culture, but the classical political culture that I like is also allowed to mean something, and it is also allowed to present a counter-pressure. As a representative of the classical political culture, I would say that I think the alternative should join the classical political culture that I have mentioned, and that is to say, join the conciliation that has been reached. To be part of a settlement circle, it's like being family. Everyone who has a family knows that he sometimes gets a little fret about each other, and he can also have some very intense discussions. However, we end up talking ourselves out and finding solutions that may not be the best, if only a party should have its way, but which, in turn, are solutions that everyone can go back to their group room and tell about with pleasure and then you can take part in these conciliations. So I actually find it difficult to accept the alternative's attempt to turn myself into what I believe is also known in Danish as a free rider in relation to the conciliation system. Furthermore, I naturally agree with the Minister in everything that the Minister has said, so I shall not repeat that, but that is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144917	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144920	Has the Liberal Alliance, in the period before the Liberal Alliance became part of the elementary school settlement, tabled resolutions in the field of education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144931-2	I have no idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144935	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144937	It might be that the rapporteur should have examined it before he made his criticism of the alternative. But I will look into that afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144947	I think that's more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144949	I guess so. Then there's one more question for mr. Henrik Dahl. Sir. Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406144956	My idea also fell to the saints of the last few days by hearing the rapporteur's speech in relation to the participation of the Liberal Alliance in the public school circle and discussing school without being a member of the conciliation circle. Does the rapporteur not think that it is quite healthy for democracy that parties outside a conciliation circle also have the opportunity to participate in a dialogue on the primary school in the Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145025	Yes, of course, that's right. But there is something strange about having a debate about who in this Chamber is for and against etc. etc., when the fact is that the reality of the school industry is that it is consensus within the conciliation circle that will enable this proposal to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145053	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145054	Well, we have the conciliation tradition we have here in the Folketing. But would the rapporteur not agree with me that it would be a healthy culture for the Folketing, if it is not the case that when a settlement has been reached in a given area, the rest of the Folketing has been excluded from taking part in a dialogue on it? It is not because we do not recognise the culture of conciliation that exists and the framework we have now set up for it, but is it not healthy for culture here in the Folketing that there is an open debate where parties that are not members of the conciliation circle can also participate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145131-2	Yes, it certainly is, and with my family metaphor I also tried to indicate that sometimes you can swear a little under your hand over the long discussions you have in such a conciliation circle. So it's actually really good. But if we are to hold on to realism, it is also the case that we can say what we want in the Assembly, because this proposal ends up being something on which a conciliation group has to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145202	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. We move on to Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145212	Thank you. It was decided, as we have already heard, in 2008 that children should start in the calendar year when they reach the age of 6 and thus join the nursery class, which then also became mandatory in 2008. At that time, neither the Radical Left nor the SF were members of the conciliation circle around the primary school, but it was then both our parties in 2011, when our parties went into government under Helle Thorning-Schmidt, and the tradition is here that you inherit, if you may say so, the settlements that the government represents. This does not mean that we cannot discuss the conciliation and work to bring about changes in them as well, but as a starting point we are bound by the decisions that have been taken before we got back into the conciliation circle, which we left together in 2002. I only mention this for historical reasons. But with regard to the specific situation of children going to school in the year of their 6th birthday, I would like to mention some figures to illustrate what some of the problem is, because there is really a great difference between a child, for example. was born in December and therefore the school begins in August 2017 at the age of 51⁄2 years, and then the child born in January next year and goes to school in 2018 at the age of 61⁄2 years. It is quite clear that this year's difference means something. At the same time, we also know, and I know, that as a former teacher, there are already very large differences in development during the youngest school years, because there can be as much as 2-3 years of difference in children's development, even if they are in the same class. This requires a great deal both of the families and of the children and of the teachers and of the school as a whole. That is why there are really good reasons for considering flexibility around children's school start-ups, and there is also a formal opportunity for that, but it is just really difficult to make it seem like a flexibility in everyday life. Because it is possible that parents can talk to the school management and the municipality about a child having better wait for a period before going to school. Studies have also been carried out and research results produced which show some of the problems that are derived from this way of starting school. There are, among other things: an article that I will mention the title of, because it is very clear, and it has come from SFI, the old Social Research Institute in October 2015, and it is called: "Will you do well at school and at football - hopefully you will be from January." If you look at World Championships and European Championships and something like that, you will see that those who really win were born in January and February. That is something we can all see: it is not just something we are making up because we think it is something we can use in this context. I should like to stress once again that, since the Radical Left is in the conciliation circle on primary school, this is a reflection of such a nature that we must take it up in the conciliation circle and discuss it there. And because of the fact that our joint colleague, Mr. Jacob Mark, on his way to Iceland, I should like to say hello to him and say that he has just raised that issue in the conciliation circle. So it's under treatment, you might say, in the Ministry. The case is being investigated, as it is called, and we are waiting for it. But we are interested in contributing to a proper debate on the challenges here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145558	Thank you very much to Mrs Marianne Jelved. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406145609	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank both the Minister and the rapporteurs for their comments on this motion for a resolution. Thank you for the kind reception, both of those who support and those who either do not support attitude or for such a little more practical reasons. Some people say that they think that it actually works well enough as it is today. I disagree with that. When we present this motion for a resolution, there is a reason for it, and that is that we see this report from the DEA which points out that 3 out of 20 children are not really ready for school. We see studies pointing to the fact that not being ready for school can actually pursue one for a long time up to school. We all know, too, at least, that when they start at school, it's as if the kids have to find their place in this hierarchy and in the structure, and then the structure sits in one way or another. So even if you professionally, socially, emotionally had to come for what you have of immaturity, it may be that you have been stuck in a position like the one who has difficulty sitting still, or the one who is not so good, or something. It can be really difficult to break that pattern, even if you personally develop, because the class communities tend to get stuck. It's nobody's fault, but that's how school classes work. That is why it is so important that we ensure that all children starting at school are the best possible starting point when they start at school. We do not think that they do today because the municipalities can say to the parents: No, your child should not have postponed the school start. Then we'll talk numbers. I think there are some who have mentioned the figures that we have talked about. It is quite true that in 2010 and 2011 there were 53 per cent. by the nursery school managers, who in a study from the Danish Evaluation Institute considered that more children were not ready for school compared to 2004-05. I think it was sir. Jakob Silverhøj, who mentioned the numbers. Half of the nursery school managers believe that during this period of 10 years, more children are not ready for school. We think that there are many of us, and we should take this seriously. We have heard the figure that 3 out of 20 children are considered not to be ready for school. Then I can also say that in 2004-05 there were 21 per cent. of the children who had their schooling postponed, and in 2016 it was 6%. It's a big difference. And it is clear that if you make financial calculations that say that if parents were allowed to postpone their child's school start 1 year today, it would go back up to 21 per cent. I think that is the wrong assumption, because the 21 per cent who had to postpone school in 2004-05 did, of course, get it before the mandatory 0th class was introduced. Nowadays, the starting point is to start in 0th grade. Then there will be some who do not start in 0th grade. It won't be 20%. So in relation to the financial calculation, we'll take a look at it. We would like to ask the Minister a few questions about this, including what we can call the dynamic effects, namely whether the children who then have to take the 0th class, which they may not have needed if they started one year later. What kind of money are we saving there? A study has just been carried out which has calculated the dynamic effects, if you look at investment in education, so we can now start to look at the dynamic effects in investment in education at all. Then I would like to say to both the Danish People's Party and the others who have declared themselves critical or sceptical about this, whether it is the parents who should be allowed to have the right of veto or take the final decision. That is what we think in the alternative, but it is also a political position. Who, like the authority, has the authority to make the final decision as to whether your child should start at school at 6 or 7 years of age. We clearly believe that parents should be the ones who have the best knowledge and sense of whether their child is ready to start school. And we have no reason to assume that for various reasons they would want the child to wait to start school if the child was ready for it. So we really have a lot of confidence that parents can make that decision. We are not at all opposed to looking at a model in which we could look more closely at the interaction between parents, day care centres and local authorities. The problem today, as is also the case with Rudersdal Municipality, is that you take the right to say no, even if the parents think otherwise, and you also take the right to let a child drive through a PPR assessment, which in itself can lead to a stigmatisation of these children. So there is some legislation today that we find problematic. It may well be that we are not going all the way over there, where we are proposing that it should only be parents, but that it should be in interaction. We would like to take a look at this at least in terms of improving the model that exists today. However, I would like to conclude by saying that we think there is a problem and we think that we owe it to our children to get the best possible education, and we do so by giving them the best possible start and the slightest chance of getting their schooling started in a way that is inappropriate, because we know how much it is pursuing a child once it has put some labels on its back. So we'd like to do everything we can to help the children here. We would very much like to enter into further discussions with the parties of the Folketing. I know that this is a conciliation process, and we have now lifted the debate in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I see absolutely nothing procedurally wrong with that. One can then disagree with that, or one can change one's mind as one moves forward in time or status in parliamentary work, but we are only happy to raise the issue in this Chamber and we look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406150236	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I want to know if there are any more of you who would like to speak. That does not seem to be the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406150257	The negotiations have been opened and the Minister of Education is given the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406150320	Thank you to the alternative for focusing on young people's digital behavior and illegal sharing of offending images and videos with motion motion for a resolution B 72. This is a serious and, unfortunately, also topical issue, which is why it is important that we discuss it. But let me start by saying that the government cannot support the concrete proposal. The aim of the proposal is to make it compulsory to carry out educational courses in digital ethics and behaviour in primary and secondary education. It is serious when about 1,000 young people are charged with sharing insulting images. There have also been other cases, and this is a very important issue. However, the government does not believe that any more mandatory requirements for the content of the teaching are the way forward. There are already a great many things going on that must give young people the knowledge that it is illegal to share naked images of others without having received their consent. From the government's point of view, we have a strong focus on digital behavior and ethics in both primary and secondary education, and a number of private actors are making a great effort to support the school's work to equip students to become better online. For example: Danske Skolelever and TDC have prepared a campaign with relevant material for the schools. It is the government's opinion that there are already good opportunities for the public schools to teach this issue. Understanding borders and rights in relation to sexuality is already part of the common goals of health and sex education and family knowledge in primary school, including standards and rights for body, gender and sexuality in a social perspective. Other subjects also provide opportunities to dive into the problem within the applicable framework. It is also part of the pilot programme on enhanced understanding of technology in primary school. Here, among other things, will be the case. focus on teaching the importance of technology in society, and that also means understanding the security, ethics and consequences of digital technologies. In relation to youth education, my predecessor in 2016 presented an ethical code. The code has received very good feedback from the sector, and in February 2017, the government launched a stronger response to digital violations with ten concrete initiatives. One of the initiatives is the strengthening of digital competences in the subjects of upper secondary education with a focus on ethics. This has meant that the digital education and skills in the subjects of the upper secondary schools have been strengthened in the new curricula. In addition, a young-to-youth campaign has been launched on the sharing of offending material and good tone on the web, and inspirational material has been prepared on emu.dk, Denmark's learning portal. The government believes that schools should be obliged to work with digital education, but it is important that you have a certain local freedom to work with the area as you think it most relevant. This is true in general. As you know, the current and most relevant thing has to change. That is why, from a central point of view, we must keep up with detailed regulation. The state must provide knowledge, materials and support to schools that may experience the need for it, but also give local freedom. That is, for example, the case. also reflected in the agreement on a relaxation of Common Objectives on which there was broad agreement among the parties of the Folketing. Once again, I would like to thank the alternative for focusing on the important issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406150651	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. At least there's one from Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406150659	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much to the Minister for the speech. As I hear the Minister, the Minister says several times that there is ample opportunity to work on this subject in schools and in youth education. I fully agree with that. After all, we ourselves were very enthusiastic about the ethical code of the former Minister of Education, on which we tabled resolutions some time ago to make compulsory. It is true that it will always be a balance between regulation and freedom and that we should not impose all sorts of things on schools. That is also one of the things that we are very aware of in the alternative, namely the freedom of schools. That's why we're thinking carefully about something like this. However, we may be concerned that there are young people who are walking around and seemingly never heard a word about how to behave digitally on the Internet when it comes to sharing insulting material. And our wish is that all Danish young people should have some kind of relationship with it, knowledge of it, teaching it. Does the Minister agree with me that it is optimally the case that all Danish young people should relate to digital behaviour?
ParlaMint-DK_20180406150808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406150810	Thank you. What we are discussing here, as I understand it, is not the relevance of the issue. That's how you handle it. In Denmark we have no curriculum. We have thus deliberately made the decision in Denmark that we have no curriculum. We have learning objectives, and we have also decided in a conciliation circle that learning objectives should not be too rigid. We have made a very conscious decision on this, because we believe that the primary school works best without detailed regulation. Of course, we can easily discuss the content of the subjects, and we can also easily make material available. We can also make instructions. We can do a lot of different things. But it is a conscious decision that we do not want to regulate detail in this area, nor in a lot of other very important areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406150901	The questioner? No. Then we thank the Minister and welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406150918	Thank you. Children and young people live a very large part of their social life online. It makes demands not only on them but also on us as a society and, above all, on our education system. Just as there are rules of play for how to behave and treat each other when you are together physically, there should also be when it happens digitally. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party also fully agree with the alternative that violations and cross-border behaviour on the Internet should be taken very seriously. We simply do not get our children and young people dressed well enough today. This is evident in the case of January, when more than 1,000 young people were accused of sharing sexually offensive images. That is why we, too, have been very concerned by the fact that political initiatives have been taken in relation to both primary and secondary education. This has led in concrete terms to the code of ethics for the upper secondary educations adopted in 2016 and the comprehensive anti-bulb strategy from last year, where there is also focus on digital behavior • of course in collaboration with a lot of other parties here in the Danish Parliament, I should like to introduce. Although we are looking at this issue as seriously as the alternative, we do not believe that the time has come to drag more new demands or obligations down over the country's schools. We must allow the many measures that have already been set in motion to work, and at this time, when many political initiatives are being launched both locally, within the framework of the reform, and, as I said, nationally, I think it is important that we keep in mind that one solution in one context is not necessarily the right solution in another local context and with another group of children and young people. And one thing is the political, legislative initiatives, another is the court, that is, the fact that it is illegal and criminal to share the insulting material of young people under 18 years of age. Here in the Folketing we are the legislative power and not the judicial one, but I think that judicial work is also part of the debate that the Alternative has raised today. In the light of the words I have spoken, the Social Democrats cannot therefore support the resolution. But when that is mentioned here from the platform, I would really like to take this opportunity to thank the alternative for keeping the focus on this important issue. In the Social Democratic Party, we would very much like to work closely with the Alternative and the Danish Parliament's other parties on how to continuously strengthen digital education so that we ensure that all children and young people thrive not only in the classroom but also online.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406151254	Thanks for this. It did not give rise to brief remarks. Therefore, I would like to welcome Mrs Dorthe Ullemose from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406151305	In the wake of this spectacular case in January 2018, where more than 1,000 young people have been charged with the sharing of sexually offensive video and image material, we agree on the importance of talking to young people about good online digital behavior in schools about the legislation in this area and the consequences of sharing offending material. In the Danish People's Party, we agree that this is a very serious problem, because unfortunately we have seen examples of girls and women experiencing their lives being destroyed because naked pictures and pictures of them are flourishing in sexual situations on the Internet against their will. That is unacceptable. No one should experience having naked images divided against their will. The reason why we cannot support the proposal is that there is already a great deal of focus on digital behaviour and ethics in both primary and secondary education. As part of the joint public digitalisation strategy, efforts have been made to strengthen the digital education of children and young people. We do not believe that Parliament should dictate and impose on schools that it should be made compulsory as a subject. We do not see the need for such changes legally. It is already in the common goal of health and sex education and family knowledge that children should be taught bordering and rights in relation to sexuality. It also states that the indicative objectives for compulsory education include: students must have knowledge of children's right to protection against physical, psychological and digital abuse. Today there is very fine material that schools can use to inform students about ethics and digital behavior. In 2016, the Ministry of Education presented an ethical code for youth education, and in February 2017, the government launched a stronger response to digital violations with many concrete initiatives. There is also a website where children and young people can contact if they need to remove unwanted images from the web, and this is done in a collaboration between Save the Children, the Crime Prevention Council and the Ministry of Justice. In addition, a working group of teachers and managers and other actors in the field of youth training has been set up on the sharing of material offensive on the web. A digital education campaign has also been launched to make young people think before they press send or forward. The campaign should provide young people with knowledge of the consequences for those who have shared images against their will, and it should inform them that sharing of offending material without consent is a criminal offence. We therefore believe that there is a wide range of material so that we can get rid of the culture that exists in some youth environments where young people do not think that they commit a criminal act by sharing violated images of others. The Danish People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406151618	Thank you to Mrs Dorthe Ullemose and welcome to Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406151627	Thank you, sir. President. I would also like to start by thanking the alternative in this motion for a resolution for raising the debate in this Chamber today, because I think it is an important debate to take, and I really think it is a debate which one might say will unfortunately also need to take on a regular basis over the next few years. But I must also start by saying that the Left will not vote in favour of this resolution, and I can also start by saying that I welcome the Conservatives and say that they will not vote in favour either. After all, we in the Left agree with what the authors of the motion also point out that it is an important task to ensure that both our children and, for that matter, our young people in particular learn to commit themselves in the digital world. It is also very important that our young people learn what is ethically correct in the digital world. Our government is very, very aware of these problems. I would also like to say, as previous rapporteurs have said, that there are a number of things that have been put into effect almost from day one when we were given government power. Our government has among other things. into the primary schools and, for that matter, also in youth education through the common public digitalisation strategy, which will help to strengthen the digital education of both children and young people. We have developed an ethical code to guide youth education, we have launched a stronger response to digital violations, which contain ten concrete initiatives, and we have made it an important part of the educational objectives of primary school that children and young people should learn the boundaries and rights of their sexuality. In other words, in fact, I think that the Left and, for that matter, the current government have had and still has a great deal of focus on dressing our children and our young people to the best of their ability to commit themselves in the digital world. And then we know that, with the recent cases, we are not yet in the finish line, but I think that in this way we should also give it a chance now to make things work. That is why I cannot come up with new solutions here and now. In fact, I do not think it is here and now that we should start even more. I would also like to say that I also believe that the individual schools and the individual youth institutions are working hard at local level to protect the young people and to dress the young people even better. So I have to conclude by saying that we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406151921	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Nor did it make brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406151929	The proposal here is a revised re-submission of a similar proposal made by the Alternative in the last parliamentary year. We could support the proposal made in the last parliamentary year, and we can also support the proposal in its present form. It can be said that since we last discussed the alternative proposal in this Chamber, it has become even more obvious how important it is for all children and young people to have a very clear understanding of how important it is to have good digital behaviour and that everyone understands how extremely serious the consequences can be if you cannot see through the cross-border and offensive behaviour of other young people on the Internet, whether on social media or on other parts of the network. First of all, this has extremely serious consequences for the children who are being violated, but it has become so obvious with the trial that it also has extremely severe consequences for the young people who are violating. And so it can be said that from the perspective of many and from the perspective of the individual, this is incredibly serious. Does the education system have to solve all the problems in this society? No, it shouldn't. Many would say that families have a great responsibility to ensure that their young come from home with a strong ethical and moral ballast. But the education system also has a major role to play, and precisely in this area I think it is quite obvious to see that for a great many families it can be difficult to give their young people the necessary ballast. And there is also the very special feature of the opportunities offered by the education system that it is not just a one-to-one communication and one-way communication, but that all the other young people can be involved here. You can involve the communities, you can get the collective discussion among the young. And I think that if you do not have the joint debate, we will not get far enough. One-way communication is not the answer to this; it is the dialogue and joint debate between young people and responsible adults. I hear several of the other rapporteurs suggesting that you are running in an open door, and you could say: yes, I wish it were so. 'Cause there's no need to tip kiv in cases where we agree. I think that the figures that are also contained in the comments on the motion for a resolution suggest that the door we are running in is quite open, so not. I think there's more to be done. I think the proposal here is well drafted. I do not want to say that I remember it, but I noted what I said last time we dealt with it, and I had some comments about how important it was that it was not a one size fit all-model that we put in addition to the educational institutions and how important it was for us to provide an open framework. I think that in this proposal the good thing is that, on the one hand, it obliges the educational institutions to actually do so and do so, we can only rejoice, because then the inconvenience of implementing this proposal is quite small but, on the other hand, it provides a very wide framework, almost wide scope, for dealing with it both within the individual educational system and at the individual educational establishment, based on the specific group of pupils, their age, their place in life, their place in the educational system, etc. etc. So I do not think that this is setting in motion a detailed centralist regulation of the area. If you were, we would probably have been worried too. In fact, I think we are doing exactly what we are asking for, namely that it is quite open to the educational institution to find the right forms. So I think it is a good proposal, and since there seems to be broad consensus and that is actually what I hear in this Chamber about something having to be done, perhaps we could get on with this together. I do not think this is one of the places where we need a great political confrontation, but where we are trying to solve tasks together, which are actually quite obvious to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406152418	Thank you, sir. Mr Sølvhøj, and a warm welcome to the honourable Member, Mr Sølvhøj. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406152427	Thank you for that, President. Of course, the process considerations I had in relation to B 67 I also have in relation to B 72, so I won't repeat them. There is no doubt that the problems that arise from the proposal are both very real and very serious. If, however, we cannot support the proposal, it is for the reasons already stated by the Minister. We must therefore be careful to regulate the detail of a school system which a very large majority in the Folketing prefers to be decentralized. In general, I also have the impression that the alternative is a party that has a great love for grass roots and decentralisedism. And it is not least because there are so many people in the Folketing who prefer decentralisedism that the Folketing has also decided by a large majority to abolish some 3,000 binding targets for primary school. When a great many initiatives have already been put in place and they have already been examined by the Minister, I come back to the situation where I am missing a Danish expression. But I have to say that the proposal is what we have to call overkill. That is why, as I said, we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406152614	Thank you very much, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406152621	Thank you. This is certainly a very relevant subject which the Alternative rapporteur has addressed and which we are discussing here with motion for a resolution. B 72. There is no doubt that the cross-border conditions that apply to children and young people in relation to the digital world, and the behaviour that it makes possible, and the importance of the offending materials that we have heard about, which thousands of children and young people are now burdened with, have participated in and shared, are part of the everyday life of our children and young people and part of the everyday life of our schools and educational institutions. That is why it is clear that we need to focus on this in some way, and B 72 is helping. And we can then also consider how to follow up on B 72. But in any case, we have already taken some decisions that are at the heart of this context. The anti-mobble strategy is a must; it is a commitment that all schools are bound by and that there is a lot of political focus on working as intended. We can also follow this up in the public school circle to see how it has developed. We have a large number of institutions that are very central in this context. They are also mentioned in the resolution, and I will just mention some of them here. EMU Denmark's Learning Portal, the organisation Save the Children, the organisation Sex & Society, the Ministry of Education, and there are also guaranteed other places where you take up these themes. I'm gonna shoot at the Children's Terms being included here as well. What I would also like to point out, which is part of this world where we can get some help and for which I myself was responsible when I was Minister for Culture, is the Media Council. It has been here for very, very many years, and it has the task to see whether all children can watch all movies, or whether some should be banned for children of different ages, for example. Then you know what I'm talking about. However, it has increased its powers and has set up a knowledge centre for children and young people, the Media Council Knowledge Centre, and the purpose of that institution is to raise awareness and inform about children's use of the Internet and new technologies, so that parents and teachers are equipped with useful knowledge about it here. It is formulated in the technocratic language in which such a thing is formulated, and if I am going to translate it into ordinary Danish, it is that it is actually here that they have to take action, in the areas we are discussing today, and now they are also watching and watching it. You can go to their website and see how much they actually do. I am not going to list that here, but it is just that we are aware that there is also an institution in the public sector which is, moreover, located at the Film Institute, and that is in fact a minor matter. But they're here. So I would like to say that in all the ways in which we in the Radical Left can contribute and the same can be said from the SF's rapporteur, Mr. We would like to do so and help to develop awareness of these conditions and find good ways to integrate these important issues into, for example. different subjects. Well, I remember a long time ago, when comics became such texts as one would like to have in school it was at least a proper break and it became alternative texts in Danish teaching. That's when the focus was on that kind of thing. Now you can have alternative texts in many other ways, and there are quite obvious topics in what motion for a resolution B 72 raises, which you could integrate into both social sciences and Danish education within the framework that already exists. We would like to help focus on this and see if we need more than that, because I do not think that we should make overkill at the educational institutions we have either. I would like to get my finger on the pulse of what is happening on the teacher's side and how to deal with these challenges in the various educational institutions we have, and then take stock of it and start from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406153100	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved for that. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406153111	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking all the rapporteurs and the Minister for their good comments on this resolution. There is no doubt that we all support the intention and all agree on the challenges that lie out there, and then we can have a little disagreement as to whether something more needs to be done right now. I think I will start by referring to my own little internal investigation. I happen to be the mother of five teenagers' bonus mother, and I thought I might as well ask them. They range from 7th grade to 2nd grade. So now I might as well do my own little population survey here of how it looks, and whether they have learned anything, heard anything, been taught digital ethics, sharing nude images, etc. Out of the five, there were two who are in the 8th grade and who at their school and I just have to say that there are four different schools we are talking about here and have received a presentation about it, that is, there has been someone from some organization out and giving a presentation about how to deal with this with sharing pictures and videos etc. online. The other three had received nothing from teaching in their class. It was a 7th grade, a 10th grade and a 2nd grade respectively. In any case, it says a little bit about whether or not there are intentions in relation to the fact that there are plenty of opportunities for schools today... what the minister also refers to to teaching materials about digital behavior and ethics, it is certainly not done everywhere. Now my investigation is by no means representative, but it was just very fun just to try to ask. That is why we have tabled this resolution, because it is not the case that we love regulation. That is quite right, as Mr. Henrik Dahl says that in the alternative, we are not very strong advocates of strict regulation in the field of school. I really don't think any of the Danish Parliament's parties are going to be there anymore. I think we've moved a little over the past year on it. But I just want, or we just want it to be the case, that all Danish young people who go to school or in a youth education get acquainted at some point during their school hours with a teaching, a presentation or something about how to do things in relation to digital ethics. We're not sure that's happening today. There are some who are given the opportunity to do so, but we are not sure that everyone will be confronted with it. That's kind of what we want. After all, we are not out to say that we want to tighten up legislation with narrow targets. But in the same way as it is said today that everyone should have some sex education about how the body works and how to have sexual relations with others etc., it is also about there having to be some teaching on how to behave online in terms of sharing pictures and intimate material. It's just what we want, and we actually think this resolution contains that. That's what I'd like to read out a few quotes. I just Googled what was in the articles on this case with the 1,005 young people charged in January. And this is not in any way an exhibition of the young people, but it just says something about what kind of social problem it is. There are, among other things: A young man who has been charged and who in court says: "It was just some amateur porn. I didn't think about it anymore, says the young man... So that is the attitude of some young people out there, and it is not necessarily their fault, because it may well be that they have never been confronted with what this means for those who have been subjected to the offence. But it's still worrying. There's another girl who's been charged too, and she says, "This is the most stupid case in the world." I couldn't tell the people in the video were under 18 years old. Besides, so many people have had this video that hasn't been called in. My girlfriends are wondering why I've just been interrogated. That's ridiculous, she says. The last one and I haven't printed it is a father who has been out defending his son and is very angry that the son has been charged, for where would he, the son, also know that it was illegal? So it just says a little bit about that it's a big social problem... our society is moving. One of the major challenges today is these pitfalls that are also, with the digitisation that we see. And that's why we have to take it seriously. These are not tiny regulations of detail; this is something that we regard as a major social problem. For the same reason, we actually think it is very positive that the police chose to charge these 1.005 young people, although many think it was very violent, but it sends a signal. And I actually think that in the wake of that there are many schools out there that have thought that okay, now we should remember to put this on the schedule. After all, we have just set the penalty up to three years for these crimes, so it can be said that the Ministry of Justice, our own Minister of Justice, is also taking it seriously in relation to what it can bring about by punishment. It is, in fact, just in that optics and in that light that we also think that we should make sure that all young people are informed about this topic in their schooling. But I also hear that there is a will to look at the time. We'd be happy to do that. Now we have tabled it twice. Let's wait and see what happens, if we get a positive development in this area. We want to be a part of that. We are not going to put this again for the moment, but if it turns out that we have more cases like the ones we have seen or other things that raise concern about this area again, we will be taking it up again. We believe in good will and we would like these initiatives and opportunities to be able to have a positive effect on how our young people deal with what they must and should not do on social media. So let us shed a positive light on this matter right now, but with the in mind that we are at least ready to take the matter up again as soon as it turns out that we are disappointed in our expectations. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the positive treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406153741	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that we refer the matter to the Education Committee. If there are no objections here, I see it as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180406153801	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting, other than to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish you a happy weekend now that spring comes. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 10 April 2018, at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule set out on the Danish Parliament's website.
