ParlaMint-DK_20181212100000	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212100009	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 13 December 2018. I shall begin by giving the floor to the rapporteur on the questions put to us, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, for the reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212100037	Thank you for that, President. For a long period of time we have seen in the media examples of children refusing to live in Denmark with their own foreign mother or father and Danish stepfather or stepmother. One example I think has been more heartbreaking than the other, and they even cover only the tip of the iceberg. But for the authors of this question, the starting point for this question is not alien policy. In other words, it is not about child politics or the best interests of the child, although in many cases it has been largely taken into account. No, this question is about the rights of Danish citizens. Should Danish citizens have the right to live in Denmark with their chosen foreign spouse, their common underage children and their half-sisters? Or should a wide range of barriers be put in place, such as harassment, which makes it difficult or totally impossible? Should we have put an end to the cases in which Danish-speaking well-functioning children are pulled out of their surroundings, away from their father, mother, siblings, playmates, schoolmates and friends and are sent out with a well-appointed helping push on the lower back, or should Danish citizens as something quite natural, something quite obvious, have the right to live in Denmark with the family they have chosen for themselves? We look forward to the Minister answering these questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212100228	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212100238	Thank you. I see this question debate as a good opportunity to discuss some of the challenges, but also dilemmas, which are of course in the area of family reunification. This is an area in which we often have to, I have to say, make a difficult balance between, in part, opposing considerations. On the one hand, there is the right and respect for family life and, on the other hand, there is the public interest in controlling immigration and ensuring the integration of foreigners who come here. As you know, the government is pursuing a strict immigration policy precisely in order to control immigration and to ensure integration. Basically, I also believe that strict immigration policy is absolutely necessary, because otherwise the cohesion of Denmark risks coming under pressure. This is also true in relation to the two areas: marriage and family reunification with children, to which the question today is directed. To take the first part of the question first, i.e. marriage, it is the government's position that Denmark should be an open country for those who can and will. The government would like to attract those who can contribute to our society and help make a difference, and the government will certainly not put unnecessary obstacles in the way of those of our own citizens who have travelled out into the world and want to return with their foreign families. I am therefore pleased that on 7 February this year the government concluded an agreement with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party on tighter and balanced and realistic rules for marriage, where integration is at the heart. With the rules we have sought to find a broader and more lasting solution in relation to, among other things. the foreign dancers who, following the Biao judgment, were no longer able to return to Denmark with their foreign families and actively contribute to Danish society, as well as to feel within the framework of our international obligations, including, of course, the prohibition of discrimination. We have thus standardized the linking requirement with a new integration requirement. It shall ensure that, in the light of the language skills, professional experience and training of both spouses, there is a prospect of the successful integration of the spouse who comes here. At the same time, we have tightened other requirements for marriage union. The agreement has resulted in new and strengthened rules on the reunification of spouses, which entered into force on 1 July 2018. The government considers that with the new and stricter rules a reasonable balance has been found between the right to respect for family life and the public interest in controlling immigration and ensuring the integration of foreigners who come here. However, the government is constantly examining whether there may be grounds for adjusting the rules on spouse reunification. The government's starting point, however, is that the new rules must be allowed to work for some time before we have to consider whether further changes need to be made. It should also be mentioned that Danish and foreign married couples who do not have the prospect of burdening the public can have other opportunities to obtain a residence permit in this country. This would be the case, for example, if the foreign spouse could use the occupational schemes in the Aliens Act, such as: the amount scheme or the positive list. This then requires that the person concerned has been offered a job offer in Denmark and, moreover, meets the conditions applicable to the relevant occupational scheme. Then I would like to turn to the second part of the question: the part relating to the rules on family reunification with children, or rather the demand for the possibility of successful integration, which is based on family reunification with children over the age of 8, when there is a parent in both the country and the country. We have, as you know, heard recently about cases in the media where a child has been refused family reunification in this country because the child has no prospect of successful integration. I understand, of course, that the families concerned here would have wanted a different outcome to their cases. That is logical. However, as I have also said on other occasions, there is a purpose to the demands we make, and I should therefore also like to remind you again why a broad majority in the Folketing adopted these rules back in 2004. This was done to ensure that parents could not just leave their children in their home country, so that they could consciously avoid growing up in this country and being marked by our standards and values, and that they could then be taken to Denmark only when they have been shaped by values which in some cases are very far away from ours. When the rules were introduced, we saw this particular pattern of integration where parents deliberately kept their children in their home country for as long as possible for fear that the children would become too Danish. The government believes that the starting point of the rules remains quite reasonable, and that is why the government has recently rejected a proposal from the Radical Left to completely abolish the requirement for successful integration. So we should not go back to pre-2004 and open up the door for parents to leave their children in their country of origin without having any kind of consequences at all. It is the government's view that minors living in Denmark should, as far as possible, come here as early as possible and have as much of their upbringing in this country as possible. The more formal years a child spends abroad, the harder it will be to ensure successful integration in this country. The government therefore believes that it is necessary that we have rules that ensure that the children who are going to have their lives in Denmark come here as early as possible. Of course, I know that the criticism of the rules is based on some of the very specific cases that have been reported in the media. In this respect, I would like to point out that there is often more in these cases than there is in the media coverage. We do not necessarily know the facts fully. And so I think it is a wrong premise when these cases are presented in such a way that it is the rules that separate families. As I have also said on several other occasions, an integration assessment is not normally carried out at all if the parents and the child come to Denmark at the same time and the aim is to continue an existing actually family life. Or to put it another way: if mother and child come here together, and if mother and child have lived together in their home country without father, then the requirement for integration will not normally be imposed at all. This is due to the fact that the child and the parent who have applied for or obtained a residence permit in Denmark may continue an existing relationship. Personally, I find it rather strange that, as a parent, you move to another country and leave your child at home, even in some cases for quite a long time. Having said that, however, it is of course a pity that the parent, who then finds a new spouse in this country, has not in all cases fully understood the consequences of the choice to leave his child in his home country and only apply for family reunification later. The government therefore believes that there is a basis for looking at whether we can make an extra effort to strengthen the guidance for those parents in these cases so that they are dressed even better in relation to the rules. That is why I have also asked my ministry to see whether it is possible to clarify to parents the consequences of not bringing the children here, while at the same time being brought together for the family of a new spouse. And I expect an additional guide to be put on the immigration authorities' website very soon. The government wants to maintain the tight immigration policy, but sees the debate on these matters as a good opportunity to also see whether there is a need for minor adjustments to the existing rules so that they address even more precisely the problem they are created to solve. I shall therefore shortly be calling for discussions on this subject. However, it is crucial for the government that we maintain the core of the rules, so that we have some rules that ensure that the children who are going to have their lives in Denmark come here as early as possible. I believe that we owe this to the children who must have a future in this country. We owe them that, otherwise the risk that they will never fall into existence and will never really be integrated is far too great. I would like to conclude by saying that I think this is an excellent opportunity to debate precisely the challenges and dilemmas that exist in the area of family reunification, and that is why I think it is a good thing that we have the question here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212101325	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Then, according to the new rules, one brief comment of one minute is now possible, if the rapporteurs so wish. And someone already wants that, and that is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212101338	Thank you so much. Thank you, Minister, for your speech, and also thank you for your willingness and your statement to call for discussions. In any case, we are very pleased about that. I'd like to ask you one thing in relation to this strengthened counsel, so that you want to make it more clear to these aliens that it's important to take the kids right away. Well, that's fine, isn't it? But if it happens that you haven't read a guide or for some reason haven't gotten into it, then we have a problem. And there's what I'm wondering if the minister doesn't agree that it's also where we have to go in and adjust the rules, so that if you should have missed this guidance and there may be many reasons for that then still have an opportunity to actually get your children to Denmark, even if they have been 2 years in Thailand or somewhere else and do not go under what you were afraid of in the old days, namely the Koran schools etc. If the risk is not there, compared to some who have been indoctrinated in their home countries, what is the problem of welcoming Denmark, even though it may have been a few years since the mother moved to Denmark? Isn't it just a question of looking at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212101445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212101446	Firstly, it is true that discussions are being called for, but I might as well say frankly that Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier should not expect an invitation to those discussions. It will of course be discussions between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, which are the basis for this set of rules. That is why, of course, we can subsequently agree to the agreement we might have reached. Having said that, I would like to say, on strengthened guidance, that I actually believe that, as parents, of course, you have an obligation to familiarise yourself with these rules. It's not like it's just easy to get a family reunion. But having said that, one should also have, one might say, the great interest in learning exactly when to bring one's child here, especially if one is guided extra well. So I do not see that there should be adjustments in this way, which would mean that, if you hadn't gotten into the rules, you could bring your child here anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212101551	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the actual debate. I shall begin by giving the floor to the rapporteur on the questions put to us, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212101605	Thank you. Now I would like to say that the prerequisite for convening negotiations is, of course, the government's power. So maybe the minister will have to make sure that the government is re-elected first. It may well have its difficulties. In addition, however, I would like to thank the Minister for recognizing that there was a dilemma in this matter. I think that's a good start. There's a dilemma. And in a real dilemma one can then fall down on one side or on the other, because the dilemma is precisely that there is nothing that can satisfy all parties. It is so clear that there is a clear ideological difference between us and the government in relation to which side you fall on in that dilemma. We also understand the dilemma, but we are falling on a side other than the side the government is falling on. Because where we fall down is in relation to the rights of Danish citizens. It is the starting point for us that Danish citizens have some rights in Denmark, and the rights that Danish citizens have include. the right to be free to form a family and live with his family in Denmark. That is our ideological starting point. I do not think we should go back many decades until there were other parties that had the ideological starting point for the freedom of the individual, and I know what. But now it's the system. It is Systemdanmark that is the key to the government, and that is where we just fall down on different sides. We give priority to the rights of the individual Danish citizen. The government's priorities are different. For the present system is an attack on the rights of Danish citizens to be allowed to live in Denmark with the family they have chosen. This is then justified by the argument that immigration is to be controlled. What you control is Danish citizens. It is the choice of Danish citizens. It's their choice to control. I find it difficult to think about how many other areas it would be appropriate to be able to alleviate problems if we, as a society, took a position on people's choices and decided for people how to choose. There would probably be a lot of problems we could alleviate that way. But it is not, as far as I am concerned, the ideological baggage of a socialist that it is a task for the state. This will not be improved by the fact that we see that the processing times, which are when you start assessing whether people can be allowed to live with their families, are incredibly long. After all, we see processing times of about a year when it comes to the so-called integration assessment, which is a very long time to get such a procedure through. The Minister says that integration should be at the heart, but then acknowledges that in a number of the cases that have been advanced, questions might perhaps be asked as to whether there could be a different outcome. But then the Minister also says that there is more than what is coming out in the media. It is true, as the Minister also said, that the Minister's answer to these specific cases has been: there is more behind this; it has not all come out. There we are, of course, as members of parliament in the privileged situation, that we have had the opportunity to ask what is more. And I want to say that in the cases we've been asking about, there's no more. There can be no more. So the arguments are not there. I think it is too easy for the Minister to reject these cases, on the grounds that something has not come forward and that there is more to it, that there is almost such a semi-criminal thing that is hiding behind this. However, make an arrangement where people can be allowed to publish all information themselves. If people are willing to do so, they can have the opportunity for all the information to come forward, so that that argument cannot be used interchangeably, for that is how it is used unconcreted: there is something behind this that we must be very careful of. I'd say it's not a picture I recognize. But of course the Minister may have some information that has not passed on to the Folketing. In that case, that would be quite questionable. But at least I haven't gotten to know about it. Then the Minister also says, when it comes to children and bringing children together, that there is no justification for leaving children in the country of origin. I simply do not understand why the Minister cannot understand the obvious reason for leaving children in the country of origin for a period of time. Well, the reality is that Danish men and women go out into the world and work, and then they fall in love somewhere. It's expensive if it's a long way to go back and forth, so you decide you're gonna try to live together. So do Danish couples; you try to live together, because it is not easy. Do you just have to tear the baby up with a mess to move in together for a while, or do you have to wait and see if it works? I think there's really good reason to wait and see if it works. So the short of the long conclusion is that this is a violation of the rights of Danish citizens. That is also why, on behalf of the authors, I should like to read out the following proposals for adoption, and that is on behalf of the Enhedslisten, Alternative and Radical Left: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that the clear starting point of the Aliens Act should be that Danish citizens have the right to live in Denmark with their foreign spouses and their minor children. Against this background, the Danish Parliament invites the government to present in this Assembly proposals for an amendment to the Aliens Act to ensure that all Danish and foreign married couples who can support themselves are entitled to settle in Denmark together with any minor joint children and any minor special children of the foreign spouse, without any assessment of the prospect of the successful integration of the children. • V 38).
ParlaMint-DK_20181212102244	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. Let me see if there are any brief comments. There is not, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Mattias Tesfaye as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212102302	Thank you for the floor. More and more Danes travel and work abroad, and more and more foreigners travel and work in Denmark, which is why it is of course quite natural that more people also fall in love across borders. Many also have a new marriage mate, and some of the new marriage mates have one or more children from previous relationships. Some couples want to settle abroad, others choose Denmark, and our legislation must, of course, be able to handle this in a way that also seems reasonable and reasonable. As I said last time we discussed this issue in the Chamber, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that we already have excellent legislation to ensure that foreign spouses can come to Denmark if they comply with a number of clear and tangible rules. Until a few years ago, we also had a rule that they could take their children to Denmark if only they came within 2 years of their mother or father. It was a 2-year rule that was necessary and good because it helped to ensure that the children were not raised by grandparents or other relatives and first came here as big teenagers. It was also a 2-year rule that, unfortunately, we had to abolish in 2016 following a verdict that we thought was a little too bad. Now we are in a situation where a number of individual cases have recently been raised in the press, among others. Girls from Thailand have been refused family reunification. I still do not want to stand here on the platform and deal in detail with these individual cases, and certainly not with cases that I have not read, but only with publicity in the media. However, in general terms, the decisions seem both surprising and unreasonable to many, including myself, and I believe that we need to find a proper and sustainable solution. When I read the legislation that we adopted in 2016, I really think it is very clear what should be emphasised in these assessments. Frankly, I cannot understand how these applications can end up with refusals after having been dealt with both by the officials on the board and by the Independent Foreigners' Board. Last time we had the debate, I was still waiting for a reply from the Minister, asking for a detailed account of how these integration assessments were carried out, i.e. how the various factors were actually weighed against each other. We have now received that answer, namely the answer to Question 33, but it is not an answer that has made me much wiser. For after a review of these well-known factors, the Minister informs us that it is not possible to determine the weight of each element. So we can't get any answers as to what it is that makes some of these cases seem to be going wrong. And when we politicians cannot see through a decision, I find it hard to imagine that citizens who are not used to working with legislation can understand and therefore also accept the basis of the decisions. The opaqueness of none of us is served by it. I have the basic point of departure that we as citizens can agree or disagree with what is in the Aliens Act, but I also have the experience that most people can actually accept a decision and comply with a decision if they can see through how it has been taken. But if we do not know what it takes to avoid a refusal and if we do not know what we have to do to meet the requirements, then I think it will be difficult for many of us to live with the decision. We once had a Left Prime Minister who said that what cannot be explained cannot be defended. Well, that's pretty clever. To be honest, after reading the Minister's reply, I cannot explain why some of these cases end up in refusal, while others end up in a residence permit. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party and the SF are proposing today that the law be amended so that we avoid these matters so that well-integrated children no longer have to be sent out of the country. We are putting forward a proposal for adoption which requires the Minister to convene negotiations with a view to adjusting the assessment of integration so that it will be based in future on objective and transparent criteria. We are, of course, pleased that the Minister has already met us on this point. Indeed, we want to ensure that there is an incentive for children to keep up with their resident parents as soon as possible. It's important to hold on to it. In addition, we believe that the Minister's arm's length principle must be maintained, so that the Foreigners' Board continues to take the final decision, as we know it today. We do not want proceedings in Parliament's committees. Finally, we call for a significant reduction in the duration of proceedings in these cases. From the time you apply until it has been through the board and the mention, today it can easily take a year and a half, and we must be able to do better. It must be popular to say that the children can have a front pocket in the case pile. I actually believe that there can be fairly broad support in the Folketing for such changes here, if we sit down quietly. It is, of course, well known among us who work on this every day that we disagree on a lot in the field of foreigners, but I actually believe that there can be a fairly broad consensus if we quietly get the discussion in place, rather than talking further away from each other in the media. Then I hope for a good debate, and then I have a proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party and the SF, which reads: Proposals for adoption The parliament wants to change the legislation so that we avoid the boring cases where well integrated children who work well must move out of Denmark. The Folketing therefore instructs the Minister to convene negotiations with a view to adjusting the integration assessment so that it will be based in future on objective and transparent criteria. At the same time, the Folketing wants to ensure an incentive for the children to follow their parents in the home as soon as possible. Parliament also wants the Foreign Affairs Board to continue to decide in the final analysis. Finally, the Danish Parliament states that the duration of the proceedings in these cases should be significantly reduced. • V 39).
ParlaMint-DK_20181212102830	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212102839	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye for the fair presentation. I guess I'm just gonna need something cut out here. I very much agree that we should not end up conducting proceedings here in the Danish Parliament, but I would just like to ask what was said from up there that the Foreign Affairs Council should continue to decide in the end. As I heard the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, on 27 November, she opened up the possibility of some kind of exemption in these cases of family reunification of children. So just to understand it completely, I would like to ask: what ends up with the Social Democracy following the line that Mrs Mette Frederiksen mentioned on 27 November, or what is now being said by Mr Frederiksen. Mattias Tesfaye?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212102930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212102930-2	I do not really see it as a contradiction between what my President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, said and what I am saying today. What Mrs Mette Frederiksen said on that day was that there must be an opportunity to make an individual assessment, and it is, of course, the whole basis of the administrative law that a concrete and individual assessment is always made. What I think the discussion here is about is whether this should be done, on the basis of weighing up a number of points against each other or whether we have clear criteria to meet. When we talk about permanent residence, citizenship and marriage, I think that we have succeeded in screwing up legislation with clear, objective requirements that people can be presented with, and then a concrete and individual assessment is made of whether people are living up to it. I think that is better than saying that there are 10-15 different points that we allow ourselves to weigh up against each other, and out of the black box comes either a refusal or a residence permit, and then people can just sit back and consider: what was the emphasis here and why did it turn into a refusal? I think it would be good if, in this small corner of the Aliens Act, we could do the same as we normally do, namely to lay down objective and transparent criteria that can be explained to people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103044	Is there a follow-up question? Then the button needs to be pressed so that the microphone can be turned on. Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103048	I fully agree that we need to have an individual assessment in all management at home. We are in the best position to do so, and I think we do too. It is more the possibility of granting derogations, I ask about that is what Mette Frederiksen said on 27 November. Is it now no longer the policy of social democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103113	At no time have we argued in favour of what I have heard other parliamentary parties suggest and which the Left also proposed before the elections, namely that a parliamentary committee should take up individual cases and ask for them to be re-evaluated. I do not think that is a fair way of managing it. We adopt the legislation here, and then the officials have to manage it. And if we are dissatisfied with the decisions, we must do what we are discussing today, namely change the legislation. This has been the position of the Social Democrats before the elections, and it is also after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103144	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103146	I fully agree with the last point. I think it is absolutely absurd for it to be access to the press and how sweet the little girl looks who decides if you get a waiver. So I fully agree with that. Now five minutes isn't much, and you don't have time for everything, and sir. Mattias Tesfaye focused a lot on the children, but there's a broader purpose to this debate. After all, it is about the right of Danish citizens to live with their families in Denmark, and the family usually also includes a spouse, a man or a woman, of their choice. What is the reason why the Social Democratic Party in this area • what I don't think you want in other areas • goes in and decides what rights a Danish citizen can have in getting his family to do so? There are plenty of situations where Danish citizens make inappropriate and foolish decisions, both for themselves and for society, but what is the reason why we have to go in here and say that we do not respect the citizen's own choice, here we know better than the citizen, for example. in relation to having a spouse in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103301	But the alternative to having legislation on what it takes to get its spouse to do so is not to have legislation on it. And I find it very difficult to imagine that we should have an alien law, which is that as long as you marry someone outside the country, they will be able to obtain residence permits in Denmark automatically and without any requirement. I really want to warn against such an alien law, because we are opening up the entire Danish welfare community to people we grant a residence permit. I think that we should be careful to write in the Aliens Act that anyone who can marry a person here in Denmark will have access to the entire Danish welfare community. I simply do not think that this will be beneficial, even for the welfare state.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103346	Is there a follow-up question? Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103348	Thank you. No, that is to say, and that is why there are very clear criteria in the proposal for adoption that have been put forward. There are two clear criteria: firstly, one must be a Danish citizen, and secondly, one must be self-supporting. But it is again to this that the state has to go in and make decisions about Danish citizens' choices: Therefore, if it really will lead to an invasion, it will be because the many Danish citizens want to go abroad and find a spouse and bring the spouse to Denmark. The spouse cannot then obtain Danish citizenship and cannot obtain Danish voting rights etc. unless some requirements are met. That's another case. Nor can they get anything from the assistance and cash assistance system. But that's another matter. It is only a question of whether you can live together at your own expense. Why does the state have to be the judge of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103445	Firstly, it is not only on the person's own account, for example. The entire Danish health service is of course available to anyone who has a residence permit in Denmark. Secondly, I also believe that one of the conclusions from the last 3-4 decades of immigration to Denmark is that we should not underestimate the value of a residence permit. It was something that was traded in the 1980s and 1990s. For example, they said:: If my daughter marries your son, I get x number of thousand crowns in dowry, because in return I deliver a residence permit in Denmark. And, unfortunately, it is the price of living in a global, unequal world that access to a Scandinavian welfare system and to our society is worth so much. That is why we have to contain it somehow. In fact, I think that the new rules of marriage are significantly better than the old ones, precisely because we make some rather cash but also reasonable and easily understandable demands that people can navigate. I think that is actually better than the old one, where we had an attachment requirement, and where it could be a little harder to find out exactly when the couple's overall association was greatest with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103551	The next question is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103553	I'm really happy to read in the daily B.T. Today, the Social Democrats are moving on and admitting that this law on integrating children has to be changed. After all, 62 children have been expelled since the law was tightened in 2016. I am a little interested to hear how many of the 62 children who, with what the Social Democratic Party is now proposing, could have stayed. Because it seems rather unclear what the Social Democrats are really going to change. I understand that there must be objective criteria, but Mr. Mattias Tesfaye come up with a little more about what you want to change in that law, in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103644	So, first of all, it is not because we have taken some new position. When I sit down and read the 2016 law, I really think it makes a lot of sense. I can only note that the decisions that come to the other end do not make sense to me. And that is why I think it is quite ordinary due diligence to sit down and discuss what is so concrete in the integration assessment that there is a refusal. We then asked that question, and there we got an answer from which I have not become wiser. And that is why we say: let us now sit down and make sure that, instead of having a lot of moments weighed against each other, we have clear, objective demands. I could, for example. Imagine that one of the things that should appear in the law is that when you are an adult parent being married to Denmark, you have to report from the outset whether you have other children with whom you intend to seek family reunification later, and explain why it is that the child is not on the same plane. There may well be reasons; it may be a boarding school stay that needs to be completed; it may be a treatment that needs to be completed. I wanted to take my own children as a starting point, but there is always the exception that confirms the rule, and our legislation must be able to take that into account in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103753	Well, I think that's very interesting, and it sounds really good. That means that if you immediately announce that you have some children in your country of origin that you would like to have here, it will be a right to bring children here later without having to go through this integration assessment. For Mr. Mattias Tesfaye said that this attachment assessment that you have about marriage is a rubber band, and that's absolutely right. But so is this integration assessment. So does the Social Democrats think that if you just say right away that you have a child you would like to have here, then that will be a right? Then you can get to it without having to go through this integration assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103837-2	The attachment requirement for spouses was not quite as elastic, I think. After all, we called for a visa, just as there were some different things to be done. When we talk about the kids, I think there's a lot of rubber band. I find it very difficult to get hold of what these are, in concrete terms, some of the points that are being emphasised. I can only see that you mention 10 to 15 pieces, and then you say that you have weighed them against each other, and then it has become a residence permit or refusal. So the answer to the question is: No, I find it hard to imagine that it will be the only criterion to be emphasized. But to me it will certainly be essential. And I think we should try to avoid it being too much about the children being tested somehow. I think the demands must be made to the parents and not so much to the children. I find it hard to imagine a 9-year-old boy sitting for a Danish exam with his residence permit at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103928	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212103929	Thank you so much. I'd like to follow up on sir. Andreas Steenberg's question, because I actually think the follow-up he made at the end is a very good question. In fact, I think this is a good proposal. So does the Social Democrat think that when she comes from the country of origin to Denmark and fills out her papers, the mother can indicate that she has some children in the country of origin? Does the rapporteur think that because I do not think we have a clear answer to the fact that the child in question, if she does, actually has the right to come to Denmark when the family is ready for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104000-2	The reason why my answers are not clear is that I have bad experience of negotiating here from the platform. I have good experience of sitting down, drinking a cup of coffee and trying to learn what the consequences would be if you screwed here and what they would be if you screwed there. In these discussions if I sat and shared in drinking that cup of coffee, I would put on the table that I think it is quite fair that the Danish society says to a woman from Thailand: Try to hear, buddy, welcome to Denmark. Your daughter is also welcome, and your son is also welcome, but we'd like to know who they are, when they're coming and why they're not on the same plane as yourself. Even if it is the only requirement, I find it hard to imagine. But I could at least imagine that it was one of the essentials. Because I think it is quite reasonable for us as a society to ask that these children come to Danish society as soon as possible. I think that is a perfectly reasonable requirement to build into legislation. Then we should also be aware that there may be good reasons why they are not just sitting on the same plane, but that they, for example, are sitting on the same plane. completes a school where they are going for an exam or they finish a course of treatment or whatever it is. We must be able to accommodate that in some way, without it becoming too rigid. In any case, I do not think that I can explain some of the rejections that have been made. When I get emails, I cannot explain why the legislation looks like this, and then I agree with Anders Fogh Rasmussen: What cannot be explained cannot be defended.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104118	Thank you. I think that was a fine answer, in other words to say that it is one of the essential criteria which could be used. I fully agree with that. Can the rapporteur then reveal what else it might be? Now the rapporteur says that this should not be the only requirement. There must be a number of other requirements. I just get curious: are there any concrete thoughts about what it might be for demands that would also be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104142-2	In fact, I think that much of what is contained in the current legislation is relevant, for example. that the person who is in Denmark must have custody. I also think it is relevant where the child has primarily lived. If the child has grown up with his mother in the Philippines and then there is a man who hasn't seen his daughter for 15 years and who gets married to a Danish woman and then says he wants his daughter to Denmark, then I think it's fair that Danish society says: It's strange that you haven't lived with her for 15 years in the Philippines, and suddenly she should have a residence permit in Denmark. Then I think it is quite fair that we say that the daughter should then stay with her mother in the Philippines. So I really think that much of the logic of current legislation is very good. It's just a lot of different moments being weighed up against each other, and then it comes into a box, and out of the box comes a decision that I find difficult to get smart on. So I think we should take off the hood and find out where the chain is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104240	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104252	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we can easily understand that sometimes it may be difficult to see the logic of some of the individual cases that regularly appear in the public domain, but here we think it is important to draw attention to the fact that not every detail finds its way to the press. I think the Minister also mentioned that it is necessary to make demands in order to control immigration. I think it is important to make it clear that we must, of course, make demands and that there must be rules, and when you make demands and there are rules, you will also sort out some. That's the way it is, it can't be any different. It is not possible to create a foreign policy based on the fact that you only want to grant a residence permit to those who seem to be at first sight nice and sympathetic, and all the others we can then refuse. You can't do foreign policy like that. I think that should be made clear, even so that people know what we are talking about. We still have too much immigration into Denmark, and that is why we cannot relax the rules because of individual cases. Nor can we begin to oblige the Minister or the authorities to reward those who apply for a residence permit while they are in Denmark, unlike those who apply from their country of origin. The starting point is, of course, to apply from the country of origin. We cannot, of course, reward families who let children go to school in Denmark, despite the fact that the children's basis of residence has not been clarified. It would be a strange incentive structure to put into foreign law. On the other hand, we in the Danish People's Party believe that we can consider the possibility of making a limited derogation, which would mean that some of the cases that have been brought forward could then be dealt with if one wants to give a derogation in individual cases. We would also like to shorten the length of the proceedings in some of the cases. I am thinking, in particular, of cases involving children. However, the Danish People's Party cannot support those who come up with proposals that involve general relaxation of foreign policy or proposals that have not been worked through, and I think that there are a few of them in this debate. We would, of course, like to take part in discussions, and we would also like to be constructive in seeing whether we can solve some of the challenges of these individual cases, but our focus will be very much on safeguarding the tight immigration policy, and we are concerned that some parties are using these issues as well as opening up the door to relaxations that also have far-reaching and far-reaching consequences than just these individual cases that have been promoted in the media. It has to be the words. Then, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I would like to make a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that with the new and tightened rules for spouse reunification, which entered into force on 1 July 2018, a reasonable balance has been found between the right to respect for family life and the public interest in controlling immigration and ensuring the integration of the foreigners who come here. Furthermore, the Danish Parliament notes that the Government will ensure that the guidance in matters of family reunification with children, where the child's potential for successful integration is required, is strengthened. Parliament wishes to maintain the tight immigration policy, but notes that the government will convene discussions on whether, in the light of the current individual cases, minor adjustments are needed. • V 40).
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104611	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104619	I can fully confirm Mr. Martin Henriksen in that there is an abyss of difference between the Danish People's Party and at least Enhedslisten's perception of the issue of Danish citizens' rights. We believe that Danish citizens have some rights. We believe they have the right to vote and we believe they have freedom of expression. We also believe that they have a right to marry whoever they want and live in Denmark with their family. But there I understand there is an abysmal difference. We hope that it will not be extended to too many areas other than this area. But I can confirm that. I have one question for Mr. Martin Henriksen. For Mr. Martin Henriksen repeated the Minister's words that there is more between heaven and earth in these matters than there is in the newspapers. Then I just want to ask you if Mr. Martin Henriksen or Dansk Folkeparti have had a privileged opportunity to see some of the cases, or about Mr. Martin Henriksen is merely basing himself on the information which Mr. Martin Henriksen and Dansk Folkeparti have received in confidential form here in the Danish Parliament as members of parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104730	It is, of course, very much the information that is received in a confidential form in the Folketing. They are. I must be honest in saying that I have not read all cases that have been brought forward in confidential form. However, some of the cases that have been so regularly developed over the years have given me the opportunity to read. So I would say about the citizens, the Danish citizens, in relation to whether they may live in Denmark: Yes, it is a good starting point to have Danish citizens of course live in Denmark, and they must also do so with the current legislation. Then some demands are made if you want to bring a foreign spouse to Denmark and live in Denmark with the spouse and the spouse's family, children. Then you have to meet some requirements. That is quite reasonable, and it is absolutely necessary. It should also be borne in mind that there are a great many people, for example with Turkish background and Pakistani background etc., who have also been granted Danish citizenship, and one could imagine that there would soon be a relatively large Muslim immigration if it were said that because they were Danish nationals or became Danish citizens, because the majority in this room had granted them Danish citizenship, they could have a right to pick up anyone for Denmark only because they were Danish citizens. This would probably mean a rather large influx to Denmark from among others. Muslim countries, and that would ultimately affect a lot of Danes in Denmark with a lot of integration problems, crime problems, etc. So you have to think it over.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104850-2	I can confirm that when we talk about Danish citizens, we are talking about all Danish citizens. That goes without saying. I think that Mr. Martin Henriksen devalues Danish citizenship slightly. It's usually praised to the clouds. I do not know whether one can imagine that it should also cover other areas, whether it is really what is behind it, rather than that it is just the question of having the right to live with those one wants in Denmark. But in relation to this question, what information Mr. Martin Henriksen has received, I would just like to ask: out of the examples, sir. Martin Henriksen has read about Mr. Martin Henriksen has, of course, just as I have not read them all. Martin Henriksen has had difficulty finding the element between heaven and earth that supposedly should not have found its way to the press, or is it so that Mr. Martin Henriksen in all these cases, sir. Martin Henriksen has read, is convinced that this element between heaven and earth justified the decision that had been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212104955-2	I am simply unable to examine all the cases which I have read in confidential form over the years. I do not think that would be very clever to do that here from Parliament's platform. So I cannot give an exact answer to that. In relation to the devaluing of being a Danish citizen, I think that is what, among other things, is doing. The Enhedslisten and other parties in this Parliament have done because they have awarded too many Danish citizenships to people who have come from outside. That is why, in a sense, one has been involved in devaluing being a Danish citizen. We will not do that by the Danish People's Party. We want to strengthen being a Danish citizen, and we do so, among other things. by not giving out so many citizenships.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212105032	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Mads Fuglede as rapporteur for the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212105047	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the opportunity to discuss again the pending cases in this area. We regularly see individual cases being highlighted in the press and our legislation being called into question. I understand that one wonders when the press presents a case without explaining the context. I am always impressed when parents have to live apart from their children, whether because of our family reunification rules or because parents choose to leave their child in their country of origin while they settle in Denmark, and only after a number of years decide that the child should live with them in Denmark. The cases are unhappy for the individual family. As a parent, I can understand that. But that doesn't change the fact that there's a reason we have these rules. We want parents to take their children to Denmark when they move to Denmark... it is in the child's own interest to ensure that children do not grow up under the influence of the culture, values and standards of their country of origin before they come to Denmark when they are intended to become part of Denmark. It's a wise piece of legislation. We must avoid leaving children in their country of origin to grow up with values that are quite different from those that prevail in the society that they will later be part of or at least that is what is meant to be because it gives us everything else a great challenge if children who have been brought up for a completely different set of values are subsequently to be integrated into Denmark. Therefore, the children must come to Denmark early for the children's sake. It is important that parents understand the consequences of leaving their children at home. We may be better at communicating what happens if you do not take your child to Denmark immediately. Therefore, the authorities are now examining whether they can become even better at ensuring that parents understand the rules quite clearly. It does not make individual cases any less unhappy, but I hope that something good will come of it, namely that parents are now no longer in doubt as to whether or not to leave their children in their country of origin. To conclude, I would like to say briefly that earlier this year we changed the rules for the reunification of spouses so that integration is at the heart. With the new rules, we have tightened the rules for marriage, while at the same time giving foreign dancers better opportunities to take their spouse back to Denmark. In this way we ensure that it is people who can and will Denmark who achieve marriage union. That's a good thing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212105341	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212105401	Thank you for that, President. Like so much other policy, family reunification rules are about weighing different considerations against each other. There is concern that one can take one's loved one with oneself to Denmark and possibly also his children and live together here. It is basically about people's right to seek their own happiness. It is also about protecting children from parents who do not want their children to grow up in a Western country with the values and standards we now have in our part of the world. Sometimes these considerations come together, and the rules hit some we don't really want them to hit. Those cases come in the media, and they affect us all. The cases which do not appear in the media are so those which the legislation now prevents, that is, where children would otherwise be left in their country of origin or sent back to their country of origin, because parents felt that the children had fallen a little too well and had taken Danish values and standards a little too well into account. The press was very interested in these cases when legislation did not prevent them. We must try to ensure that some of the cases we have seen recently can be more avoided. For us, it is about us being one hundred percent sure that you are informed about the consequences of not taking your children with you to Denmark. This does not mean that there should be no possibility for children to stay in their country of origin in order to possibly finish a school programme or other things that make good sense for the children to finish. There may be practical problems with taking children right away, but that must be the starting point. Then we would also like to see whether the integration assessment that is being carried out can place a little more emphasis on how the children are doing in Denmark. But we do not want to compromise on the fact that if you want your children to grow up in Denmark or have to go to Denmark at some point, you must take the children with you immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212105719	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212105731	Thank you for that and thank you for this debate, which is of course interesting in principle and also concrete in relation to the matters we are hearing about. I should like to start by emphasising that when we have raised this question debate, it is precisely with a view to the perspective that it says: what are the rights of a Danish citizen? As Mr. Søren Søndergaard has mentioned several times: Why do we not as Danish citizens have the right that if we meet a spouse abroad • a man or woman • then he or she can come here to Denmark and live with us and his or her children as long as we are self-supporting? It just doesn't make any sense. We have a Prime Minister who has said that everyone is welcome in Denmark • he has repeated this many times, everyone is welcome in Denmark • as long as you want to contribute to society and can support yourself. Well, there you go, you'd almost say. In fact, none of this is in line with what the Prime Minister says, and yet we are simply putting up so many obstacles for these families. The minister said, when she was on the platform, that there is a purpose to the demands we make now I wrote it down. And you can read in the legislation what it is for a purpose, that is, that there must be a basis for the successful integration of children when they come to this country, and then a number of criteria are listed: language skills, age, the intention of the parents here to leave the child in the home country or not and integration into Danish society etc. etc. So there is a purpose, but when you read and hear about the cases that have been, that purpose is not being followed. I have also read the confidential annexes and we shall not refer any confidential documents from the platform here, but one has to say, when one reads the confidential decisions from the board, that it is arbitrary whether a child has been allowed to come or whether the decision of the board has been reversed or not. It's completely arbitrary. At least that's how it works to me, that's totally arbitrary. So if there is a purpose to the demands we make, it could in any case be that we should ensure that that purpose is met in their handling. Then there's this thing about what we read in the media and there's a lot of things that aren't said. So, I think that is simply an explanation for the fact that we have a real problem which we, as politicians, have to take a position on. As far as the Social Democrats' proposal is concerned, I think it is sympathetic that you want to look at this because if someone, when they come to Denmark, explains that they have a child that they might want to have here later and something like that, then it could be a criterion. It is sympathetic, and it is of course also sympathetic to some of the other proposals. But we should not interfere in Denmark, for example. A mother or father from Thailand brings his child to Denmark or not, regardless of whether that child lived mostly with the mother or father. We should not interfere in this as a state. It must of course be their decision in the family, how they, it can be said, distribute internally both the management of the children and who the children live with. So what we have to deal with in Denmark is that we have some rights, namely that you are allowed to have your children with you and that you can support yourself, is also one of the demands we make. So I think it is absolutely crucial when we have that discussion over and over again that we can talk about relaxing the legislation, and it is, of course, better than nothing, and I am sorry that we are not being invited to negotiations, but that is how it is at the end of the day that it is about us simply not starting to assess children's integration. That is where things are already going wrong, so that we, as a state, simply consider that we should decide whether a family can belong together when moving to Denmark from another country to marry a Danish man or woman. We simply think this is fundamentally wrong. We think that we should have the right to live together as a family and with any children and bonus children who may be, and I think that the case of Mint who was expelled is a terrible example. For not only does Mint in Thailand seem to have no very good connection with her father, but she also has a younger brother in Denmark. Well, the girl has a little brother, and then she's told: No, you can't live here with your mother and your little brother. So there is clearly something wrong and welcome is all negotiations that might improve the situation. But it is quite clear that the alternative has no doubt that what we should do as a decent state is, of course, to give our Danish citizens the right to bring the spouses and their children to whom we have to marry from abroad, as long as they can support themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110222	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next one on the platform is sir. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110229	First of all, I think it is important to stress that the debate we have in the Folketing today is about Danish citizens and their ability to live in their own homeland with their spouse and any children. We are not talking about migrants, refugees, immigrants or other groups, but we are talking about our own citizens. I also think it's interesting to take a little historical look at this and look at the facts. Until 2002, it was a right for Danish citizens to get their spouses to do so. It was then removed. In a reply from the Minister, I was told that from 2002 to 2010, that is, for eight years, it has not even been calculated how many Danish citizens sought family reunification or with whom from which countries. You haven't actually known what it was that you forbade or made impossible. I think that's crazy. When you look at the figures from 2010 until today, the spouses that Danish citizens are trying to live with in their own homeland are typically from Asia, Eastern Europe, South and North America. But the whole debate is like everything, unfortunately, about Muslims and Islam, but the main countries from which Danes are thus married are not Muslim countries at all. I think that's what I'm gonna do. Danish citizens live in the world and the world. You go on vacation, you study, you work, and you may even sit on a dating app or on Facebook and fall in love with some people from other countries. You don't know when you fall in love. I have met people who fall in love with the waiter during a vacation, I have met people who have lived and worked abroad for several years and have fallen in love, and I have met people who have sat and on the Internet found a girlfriend who is then from abroad, and then the hammer falls. Because you can't be sure to live in your own homeland if you've found a quote on the wrong spouse. In the Radical Left we think that Danish citizens should be able to live in Denmark with the spouse they have fallen in love with. We think that should be a right for a citizen. Once the spouse has arrived, the spouse must undertake to support himself, learn Danish and not make serious crime if he wants to stay. Today, it is the case that there are prospectively dependents, as it is so technically called. This means that if such a spouse goes down to the municipality or somewhere else and receives public benefits, the spouse is deported. So I think we have made some pretty tough demands once the spouse has come here, and therefore I do not think one should be so afraid to let Danish citizens have their spouses here. Because we've made really, really tough and I think sensible demands once they've come here. Today, many Danish citizens experience that they have their families split up or have to live in another country in order to live with their families, even if they are not a problem, even if they are good citizens and their spouse and children are well integrated. We do not think that is fair. We think we should reunite families and give Danish citizens the right to have their family life in their own homeland. That is why, of course, we support the text of the proposal for adoption that we are involved in presenting ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110627	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110629	Thank you. Twenty years ago, the rapporteur's party was in government with my party, and one of the things that really made it a little harder in government cooperation was exactly what we are discussing today: should you have the right to have your spouse in Denmark, or can Danish society make demands? One of the very concrete discussions that made it difficult to agree was that the then Social Democratic Interior Minister, Thorkild Simonsen, thought it was reasonable to demand an appropriate accommodation. That is what the radical rapporteur, Mr Seligman, thought. Henrik Svane did not say it was, and now we stand here almost two decades later with a completely parallel discussion. We say that it is reasonable to demand an appropriate accommodation. We even say that since then, the demands have been met. It is reasonable to demand that the foreign spouse who comes to Denmark learn Danish at a certain level within a period of time, because we think it is reasonable that people who live in our society know our language, both so that they understand what is being said and so that we understand what our new fellow citizens are saying. So, in these two decades, radicals have moved to where they at least think it is reasonable that appropriate housing and Danish knowledge are required in order for there to be a marriage union? Have we at least come a little bit in two decades?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110745-2	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye apparently did not listen to what I said, namely that it is quite fair to make demands. We can also be involved in a housing requirement, and we can also help the Danish citizen to be able to speak Danish if that is the case, sir. Mattias Tesfaye asked. And you can't become a citizen if you don't know Danish either. That's what the rules are. So the two demands, sir. Mattias Tesfaye mentions, we can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110819	I am very pleased that the old discussion about a suitable accommodation can then be parked. We agree on that. And the Danish requirement is of course for the resident, but it is also for the foreigner who comes to Denmark, where after a while we demand that they can Danish at a certain level. We also demand self - support and that there is no crime. There is a whole range of demands, and we can of course disagree on where the level should be. I personally am not so happy that there is a guarantee of DKK 100,000. I think it could have been more sensible with 50,000 kroner, but that is how the various parties may have disagreed on small or larger elements of the legislation. But basically I am in favour of Danish society being able to make demands, and thus the legal requirement that you can be married together, simply because you are a Danish citizen, does not exist. It only exists because you meet a number of requirements, and I think that if the Folketing could come so far after two decades of discussion that we agreed that we can of course make demands, that was good. Then we can disagree on where the bar should be, but of course we can make demands. For this idea that, because you are a Danish citizen, you can be married together, we had to park once in the 1990s. It has
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212110926-2	But Mr. Mattias Tesfaye has to listen to what I said. Because I am in favour of making demands once the spouse has arrived here. What is the big question is whether you want to make some demands so that you can get the spouse to do so at all. That's what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye mentions that when you have come to the country, you have to know something Danish after a period, is perfectly fair and logical. We can be a part of that. But according to the rules that have been made, you have to be able to speak Danish or English before you come here, and we do not think that is fair. But it is reasonable that when you come here, you have to learn Danish, and that is probably where the disagreement lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111004	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111007	No, it's not quite sure if I'm gonna be honest with you. As I read the motion for a resolution on which the Radical Left is a co-sponsor, this means removing all the requirements for Danish citizens to be brought together with a spouse. It can't be read any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111031	Exactly, and that is what I said, that we think that a Danish citizen should have the right to have his or her spouse here, and then you make claims to that spouse before giving a permanent stay, just as you do today. This means that, in order to obtain permanent residence after a number of years, one must not commit serious crime, one must learn Danish, one must support oneself. So we'll make the demands when the spouse arrives.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111100	I find that difficult to read from that statement, and I do not think that that is what the other parties are supposed to do, but they must then explain themselves on that basis. I'd like to ask Mr. Mr Andreas Steenberg, would it not be more natural for the Radical Left to be included in the joint motion for a resolution tabled here by the Social Democrats and the SF? Couldn't you have been there?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111128	I think it is natural for texts to be adopted with the attitude one has, and we think that Danish citizens should be able to get their spouse to do so, and then demands must be made once the spouse has arrived. The proposal for adoption also says that you must support yourself. So we think it is natural to be there where we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111148	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111205	As others have said, it is a discussion which has been based on a number of individual cases, and it is also true that this is something that needs to be taken care of when it comes to making major questions of principle. But when you have been concerned about it in these examples, it is because the results have been as absurd as they have been, where children who have been well-functioning, have gone to school, are well-integrated, have had comrades at the school who support the need to stay there, and where you ask yourself: how in the name of heaven have we got so far that we have to come to that decision? It has been incomprehensible, and that is why I think it is right that we should have this discussion. After all, Denmark has changed a lot over the last 20-25 years, which is why I think it is also relevant that we should take a historical look back, for example. to 2002, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye did before. We have had a lot of immigration, we have had major problems with the integration of the people who have come to Denmark. We agree on this in all sorts of other contexts. I also believe that there has been such a general consensus that the number actually means something, that it does not matter how many people come to Danish society. I also think that we need to take this seriously. I very much disagree with much of the government's foreign policy and also disagree with much of the socialist approach to the Danish People's Party in certain areas. It is about quota refugees, for example. There we have had a very clear disagreement. But I actually think, when it comes to family reunification rules, that it is true that we have some rules. I actually think that this is precisely because it is an important part of the problem that we are facing, and that is why we had a discussion on new rules just before the summer break. We abstained from voting on that bill because there were some things in what we disagreed with, especially about the fact that they could be in so-called ghettos, the economic requirement, etc., but in fact we think it was an improvement in the other areas compared with the previous 28-year rule. It's just to say that we need some rules for family reunification. Then I also think that the rules should be transparent and transparent, so that the people covered by them have an opportunity to find out what is up and down, and that is what has been the problem in many of these cases. That is why I think that the proposal presented here today by the SF and the Social Democratic Party, as well as addressing this problem in a wise way, I would say that we should also say that there must be greater transparency, greater transparency. There must also be an incentive not only for your children to stay abroad, but also for flexibility, because there may be cases where it may be necessary, where it may be natural, where it is best for the child, for example. is with the father abroad, but that it is not possible for it to be such a fixed procedure that you can just leave the child there. There we have some rules for it, so you know it in advance. I think that is a very good thing to get in. Then I hope that we will be so together, the parliamentary parties I do not know if we will be invited to the negotiations, and I understand that we will not, but we will survive that, we will probably sit down together and try to discuss this on the basis of more snug, rational considerations rather than the great ideological swordfights, because this is what I think it is. Those are some problems that need to be resolved, and I do not think they are solved by big, basic talk about citizenship and what rights you have. Of course you do, but there are also some other issues that need to be addressed, including the fact that we have a major integration problem and that we also need to have some family reunification rules. They can be changed, they can be more flexible, they can be different from some of the problems we have faced, and that is actually what we are proposing in the proposal for adoption we are putting forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111654	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111657	Thank you. I would like to hear what the proposal for adoption means by incentives, because incentives can be many things. It is clear that there is the fact that one explains how a quick decision can be made in Denmark as to whether the child can stay here and has the opportunity to go to school and blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah bhu bhu But then there are other incentives that are about exclusion. Therefore, I would just like to clarify what is in the word incentives before I can at least give my final commitment to support the proposal for adoption by the SF and the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111742	We have not taken a precise position on this. That is why it says so in the way it does. That is why negotiations on these matters must be called for. Well, it's about more than just explaining what the rules are. I think, for example, that it would be very natural for there to be limits to how long a child can stay with one parent before the child can obtain a residence permit in Denmark, so that one knows in advance. I think that many of these problems could have been solved if there had been some clearer guidelines for this. It will not be unnatural for us. Then the question is how long it's gonna be. That can then be discussed. It's not just two days, is it? It could be 3 years, maybe 4 years or 1 year, I don't know. That is the discussion that we must then have. However, I believe that it is best for all parties to come up with rules, but also that they are so flexible that they can take account of the problems that such spouses can face.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111847	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber. Then the trip has come to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212111907	Thank you again for the debate here today. I think that this has been a good debate in many ways, and I think that we have had some of the challenges turned but also dilemmas in the area of family reunification. In relation to family reunification, I would like to stress that the government considers that with the new and stricter rules on marriage reunification, a reasonable balance has been found between respect for family life and the public interest in controlling immigration and ensuring the integration of foreigners who have come here. As I have said, the government is constantly assessing whether there may be grounds for adjusting the rules on spouse reunification, but as I also said in my introductory speech, it is our starting point that the new and stricter rules must work for some time before any further changes are made in this area. In relation to family reunification with children, as I said earlier, what is important is that there is a purpose behind the rules in force. And I would like to stress once again that it is important to remember that the Folketing introduced the rules in 2004. The government does not believe that we should start to open up that parents can again leave their children in their home country and then simply bring the children up here, when it suits them at a later stage. If you move to Denmark, the call must be for you to bring your children here as a starting point and not leave them in your home country. This applies regardless of whether you are applying from Thailand, South Africa or the United States. As I said, the government believes that part of the solution to the cases we have heard about in the media is to look at how we dress parents even better than the rules in force. For the government, it is essential to maintain the strict foreign policy. I don't think anyone's surprised. At the same time, however, we see the debate on these matters as a good opportunity to look at whether there is a need for minor adjustments to the existing rules so that they address even more precisely the problem that they have been created to solve. It is against this background, as I have already said, that we will call for discussions on it. However, it is crucial for me and, of course, for the government as a whole, that we maintain the core of the existing rules, so that children who need to have a future in Denmark come here as early as possible. You can be sure that's the government's approach in this area. Unfortunately, we may well have some doubts as to whether it would also be the approach if the government had to change at some point. But that is the case, and this is clearly an area where we do not entirely agree. However, I believe that we all recognise that there are dilemmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212112238	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212112244	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking you for the debate. I think it is very good that the starting point for the debate is that there are dilemmas. Then it is true that there is a very, very big difference between where, in relation to these dilemmas, it is thought that the solution should lie on one side of the dilemma or on the other side of the dilemma. For a dilemma is characterized by the fact that you cannot just solve it for everyone's benefit, it was not really a dilemma. And there's a clear difference here. The starting point for us has been the rights of Danish It has, as has been suggested, been suggested that this will open up some huge immigration and will bring us back, so we can now discuss many things, but we have to discuss the proposal that lies here and this proposal does not mean that all other legislation will disappear. All other legislation exists, and this only deals with what it says here. And with what is stated here, there will still be a requirement that only Danish citizens are required; we know that the conditions surrounding the possibility of obtaining Danish citizenship have been greatly tightened. So there will only be Danish citizens, and there will only be people who are self-supporting, i.e. people who can support people who come here. And that, in the first place, only concerns the possibility of coming here. The demands that are then made in the further process of obtaining a permanent residence permit can be discussed, and we are happy to do so, but it is just not some that are included in this proposal. Along with that, sir. Andreas Steenberg said, it is clear that the idea of that huge hole, which is thus created, is, to say the least, rather odd, also because we know that in Denmark we have the legislation that one can only be married to one at a time, one can only have one spouse, and if one is divorced within the first period, the spouse that one might have taken here will be expelled. Well, that's the way it is. The person is not allowed to be so, after all, the rules are in that field. So again, the hole is hard to see. The discussion has concentrated very much on it with the child and the child's ability to come to Denmark, where it has again been stressed that it is so important that the child gets to Denmark quickly. And I must admit that I sometimes think that if I had three children in Denmark I haven't, I only have two and then chose to move to Argentina, to a completely different culture, a completely different language area I don't speak myself very well Spanish and if the children had another option in Denmark and Argentina had legislation that said if I didn't find out about the person I was going to move to, I should be thrown out of the country immediately, then I would consider if I wouldn't let my children stay here for a while until it was clear whether that relationship could keep before I transported them across the Atlantic, into a whole new cultural circle, with the aim that they might be there for half a year, and then they would have to return home again. I think that is actually an honest way of thinking. I just want to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that the SF and the Social Democrats' proposal with that interpretation, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen had, is not a stranger to us, but it only deals with a subset of the subject, and so we can support that proportion if unfortunately our proposal for adoption does not achieve a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212112645	We'll see about that. Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 13 December 2018. We are now paused and the sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130017	The sitting is resumed. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 122 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Arms and Explosives. Bill No. L 123 (Proposal for a law amending the law on criminal law for Greenland and the law on the administration of justice for Greenland. Minister for Defence (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. L 124 (Proposal for a law amending the law on defence personnel. Trade Minister (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill No. L 125 (Proposal for a Law amending the Procurement Act). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 68 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the taxation of salaries of EU staff). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate (Lars Christian Lilleholt) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written climate policy statement 2018. R 7). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday 29 January 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130142	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 13 December 2018. It's sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten, to justify the query. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130217	The Enhedslisten and SF have taken the initiative on this question because we have witnessed an unnecessary escalation of the conflict that has arisen in the negotiations between the Danish Railway Federation and DSB after DSB's entry into Danish Industry. We believe, in fact, that DSB takes a confrontational line with employees when they suddenly want to put them off the order to plan their own working hours. This is probably due to the membership of an employer's organisation for the private labour market, where employers are, after all, hard on their management rights. However, DSB is still a state company for which we, as politicians, are responsible, and here relations with employees should play a significant role. Such major changes in the company that DSB is setting up after joining the Danish Industry and setting a course after the political winds are blowing right now in the direction of transforming the company into a private enterprise or something similar can of course not be implemented over night. If DSB then tries to force a rapid development that means a deterioration in working conditions and less participation in the employee, then it can only go wrong. This is about the best asset that DSB has, the best ambassadors, namely the staff, especially the running personnel who meet customers on a daily basis, which is of course DSB's basis. It's not going so well at the moment, and then it's stupid to throw yourself into a fight with those who keep the business running. After all, the Transport Minister is the sole owner of DSB, and we believe that he should have used his influence in DSB to tell the management that in a publicly owned company such as DSB, management principles are applied that give real influence to the employee and do not disrupt the existing contractual basis simply because you can. We think the Minister of Transport should take that responsibility by convening an extraordinary business meeting in DSB, which can take place at five days' notice, and instruct the management that confrontation is not the way forward. However, it is clear that if the Minister of Transport actually agrees with DSB's management on the chosen approach, then, of course, one will stand by and passengers will ultimately have to pay the price. That would be a strange priority for the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130446	Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130455	Thank you. DSB is an independent public undertaking. This means that the company is managed by a board of directors who has employed a management board which is responsible for the day-to-day management of the company, and therefore the management responsibility lies with DSB. The Danish Parliament has decided to do so by law in 1998. Under management responsibility, responsibility for day-to-day operations also falls. In other words, the management is also responsible for the dismantling of Christmas traffic. As regards the ongoing negotiations between DSB's management and the employees to whom the questioners refer, I must refer to the Danish model. It means that disputes between employers and employees, including trade unions, are settled directly between the parties. In the end, disagreements can be settled by labour law. In other words, this is something that neither I, as a minister nor we here in the Folketing, should intervene in. That the Danish model is in operation and that results are achieved, we saw last Sunday, 9 December, when agreement was reached between DSB and the Danish Railway Federation on the content of a working time agreement for train drivers in S-trains. In the past, 15 November, agreement was reached between the parties on the content of an agreement on shop stewards. And on 5 December agreement was reached on holiday choices for the summer of 2019 for train drivers on remote and regional trains. I am informed that the parties are not in line with all the agreements, but negotiations are going on between the parties, and I think this is positive and quite in line with the Danish model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130701	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments, one for each one that comes forward. Sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130709	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. After all, in the press it has at least appeared as if the Minister had taken part in this conflict, namely in a statement in which the Minister says that he is backing DSB in this matter. Is it in harmony with allowing the parties themselves to settle such a conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130735	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130736	No, that is the pity that can arise when you speak out and things are pointedly angled by the press. I have said all the times when I have been asked how I view the conflict, that it is not something I interfere with. But at some point I will be in a broad interview in Altinget about my two years as minister asked: What do you think of what is happening between DSB and the Danish Railway Association at the moment, and what do you think of DSB joining DI? And then I answer, as is true, that I support this, i.e. that DSB joins the DI. The government supports this because the aim of this is to have more efficient and cheaper agreements that can allow DSB to provide rail services in a good and efficient way, so that it is not always the case that if you ask Arriva, they are cheaper than DSB because their agreement allows more efficient operation. Now, as a minister and as a politician in general, we often find that we are not only being quoted for what we say but also being interpreted. And, of course, the point of departure is that you have to be interpreted correctly, and you have to consider how to make a statement, so that you are correctly interpreted. And I could have done better in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130853	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130855	Well, I will certainly give the Minister the opportunity to do that now, because if the Minister thinks he is misquoted or misplaced, I cannot understand the answer to Mr. Kim Christiansen, for there the Minister emphasized precisely that the Minister supported DSB's desire to have cheaper agreements. So let's go back to those statements... unless of course the minister puts everything behind him, and then the minister should only be praised for it. But my question is: how can the Minister choose to turn up the pot of collective bargaining here with clear, one-sided support for the employer side, on the basis that the Minister has just confirmed, namely that there will be cheaper agreements? If that is not interfering in the negotiations, then I don't know what it would be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212130932	It is not because I want wages to be lower. It is a matter of being able to organise the work in a way that will make the operation itself cheaper. This means that you have an effective agreement that allows DSB to organise its operations efficiently so that its operation becomes cheaper than today and you can deliver a better product, where the price is better than the service you have to provide, and also is a price that can compete with what others deliver, for example. remote buses or other railway service providers. And that is where I and the government support DSB joining the DI in order to obtain a more effective agreement so that railway operations can become cheaper. And I stand by that. However, every time I have been asked what I think of the conflict, I have said that I am not interfering with it, and I could have been happy to repeat that at the time when I was interviewed by Everything. But I forgot to say that on that occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131036	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131038	It was immensely touching to hear the Minister speak about the Danish model I sat and was completely happy. But it is true, as has also been pointed out in this debate, that Minister No) and now we can understand that it was a little mistake, that it was not intended and so on. However, is it not rather violent, and is it not, after all, to take part in the conflict when the Minister directly says about the employees of DSB that they are sawing over the branch they are sitting on? Isn't it so much interference? Does the Minister withdraw it from today's platform and say: I'm sorry, I shouldn't interfere with it; it's a conflict that DSB itself will deal with with its employees according to the Danish model?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131118	I'm not interfering in the conflict... it's going on between the Danish Railway Federation and the DSB. However, I would like a better agreement to be reached so that DSB can also provide an efficient railway service. I can tell you what would be interfering in the conflict: it would be if I did as requested by the SF and the Enhedslisten in this question debate, namely that I take initiatives that have stopped the conflict so that the trains run during Christmas. That would be interfering in the conflict, and I hope that the Social Democratic Party strongly rejects this, because it would be a powerful undermining of the Danish model. So even if Mr. Rasmus Prehn shares wings with SF and Enhedslisten and has been in government with SF and had Enhedslisten as a support party, I hope that the Social Democracy does not support me having to intervene in the conflict to ensure Christmas traffic. It would certainly be a dispute with the Danish model.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131214	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131217	However, the Minister is the sole owner of DSB or manages the State's ownership of DSB. And then, in my opinion, it is natural that we should not interfere directly in the negotiations too when we sit on the one hand and have a decisive influence on how in this case DSB acts, then take hold of DSB's management and say: I think as a minister this is unnecessarily confrontatory. There's no reason to play gambling with, among other things. That wouldn't be interfering. When you get involved, it is because you go straight into the negotiations. But as owner and seated at the table, it would be natural to say to DSB's management: what you are doing is not good, because you are creating some confrontations. And when the Minister actually speaks out in favour of DSB's leadership and what they are doing, it will of course be an interference in the negotiations, and that is to refrain from using the means that the Minister actually has to reconcile the conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131328	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131329	Well, when you are presented with a request from the DSB to join the DI, there are two options: either you say no to it or you say yes to it. And Mr. Henning Hyllested can of course claim that the fact that you say yes to DSB joining DI is more to interfere than if you say no to it, but I do not agree with that. Both are doing what a government does, namely giving its support for registration into DI or not. There is no third choice and both are to the same extent to interfere with DSB's management. We have a desire for DSB to be able to function as effectively as possible, and I think that many friends of DSB, like Mr. Henning Hyllested and Enhedslisten would like to be, so they also owe it to allow DSB to operate efficiently, because otherwise you amputate DSB, and then there is only one way that politicians can get maximum railway operation for the money provided in grants, and that is by outsourcing, because DSB is not allowed to operate itself effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131439	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131441	Thank you. It is well known that railway operations are a complex matter. Some even say it's more complicated than sex drive. I'm not supposed to be able to talk to you about that. However, it is also well known that there is a need to improve the efficiency of train operations in Denmark if trains are to be able to compete with other modes of transport, and in this light it is important that we keep in mind the distribution of roles. Can the Minister not confirm that the distribution of roles is that at the political level we order the music, so it is we who set targets for how many trains should drive, where in the country, with what frequency etc. Is the role of politicians to start interfering in terms of pay and employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131535	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131536	I can fully confirm that, because it was very, very correctly interpreted by the rapporteur of the Left, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. It can also be added that it is actually laid down by law that the Minister should not interfere in the way that is now being demanded of him. Henning Hylllested and Mr. Karsten Hønge. A 1998 law, which thus this year has a 20-year anniversary, states that DSB is an independent company and must be able to do these things that Enhedslisten and SF want me to stop. What did Enhedslisten vote for that law then? If you voted 'yes', then you gave DSB the opportunity to do so here without the Minister's intervention, even though you are now calling for the Minister to intervene.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131627	Thank you. Then there will be no further comments to the Minister immediately, and then we will start the debate. That is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212131645	We will certainly hear a great deal about the Danish model and we have already heard something about the fact that as politicians we should not interfere in negotiations between the social partners, in this case the Danish Railway Association and the DSB. But we must be careful that this does not become a bad excuse for not deciding how DSB will develop in the future. This is basically what the disagreement is about, i.e. how DSB should develop and how the conditions for employees should be in such a development. DSB's a 100 percent. State-owned company, where the State exercises its ownership through the Minister of Transport, and however you turn it over and turn it, the pay and working conditions in the company determine how DSB can actually develop. That is why, as politicians, we also have to deal with those issues. The Minister of Transport understands this about someone when he says to Altinget that the Danish Railway Federation is sawing in the branch on which the association sits, and that it is a good idea to have more simple and more effective agreements, and that the current ones are contributing to the fact that the train operation in Denmark is extremely expensive. Then, in my opinion, the negotiations have been well and thoroughly mixed up, and then we have given our negotiators, if we can call them that, a hint of a pole of lorries, where they have to put the cut in the negotiations. Then, in fact, only DSB is left to try to reduce the pay and working conditions of DSB staff. There is nothing new about this when the Minister's efforts are to get tenders and privatisation. And that is what the membership of the DI and the new agreement are supposed to be used for. At the heart of the negotiations is the question of the influence of employees on their own working hours. Apparently, with the devil's violence and power, it must be removed from the employees who have been doing the job for many years, which has meant planning working hours and leisure time, including weekends, so that you can adjust your family life to it and to it in good time. This has meant that you can organise your time with the family in good time, that the children can count on your father and mother also to be there when the holiday finally rolls off the stack, when grandpa and grandmother are to be visited, and when the picnic is planned, or when the parent meeting at school is to be held, etc. After all, we must be aware that these are people who work around the clock, all year round, on all public holidays, even when the rest of us take time off, and when we also have to be transported back and forth between home and work and between the parts of the country and perhaps especially on Christmas Days. We know that such work at all times of the day and at staggered times is extremely stressful, both for the individual and also for the family. It is incomprehensible that DSB's management, backed by the Minister of Transport, cannot see that a good working environment with satisfied and motivated employees is a huge asset for the company, and cannot see that precisely the influence on own working hours has been strongly motivating for employees in terms of involvement in the company and taking responsibility for it and for its core product, namely train driving. At a time when rail operations have been challenged in general and passengers are leaking from trains, not least because of government policy on cheaper cars and lax rules for long-distance buses, but also because of decades of political negligence in terms of maintenance and investment in rails, signals and information systems, there is every reason to mobilise as much goodwill among employees as possible. So this is not done by depriving them of one of the most motivating benefits they have: the influence on their own working hours and the right to a reasonably normal family life. So you don't have to have a master in management to see that. DSB is engaged in a politically determined transformation process in which it is prepared for supply and privatisation and, as is always the case, it throws itself at the employees' pay and working conditions. There's nothing new about that. DSB's management has become a willing tool in the hands of the Minister of Transport, and it may not be otherwise when the Minister of Transport sits at the table and swings the tactstick. But then it is good that employees do not feel the same commitment to the Minister's political objectives and allow themselves to interfere loudly in the debate. On behalf of Enhedslisten, Alternativet og Socialist Folkepartiet read out the following: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament expresses its surprise at the Minister of Transport's action in the conflict between DSB's management and employees. The Folketing expresses its respect for DSB's employees and the efforts they make all year round. The Minister should help to resolve the conflict with fair conditions for everyone, so that cooperation and Christmas travel can get back on track. 41)
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132121	Thank you. The proposal is part of the further discussion. Then there's a question from Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132134	Thank you, President. It is, of course, about getting all the possibilities involved when we have this new form of debate; we need to get used to it. I would like to sign for Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Henning Hyllesteds, I think, strong and good speech. The desires and visions that Enhedslisten has in relation to a good working environment and in relation to the fact that one can count on making one's everyday life coherent, we Social Democrats fully agree. I thought it was a good speech in many ways. But is the Enhedslisten not nervous that the same mistake is being made by the Minister, namely to interfere in a conflict which is actually being resolved by the parties themselves? Well, we have the Danish model, where the parties are going to negotiate this. And if it is the case that Enhedslisten together with other parties suggests that the Minister should be required to interfere in it, is it not a breach of the Danish model, and are we not undermining what we actually have proud traditions for in Denmark, namely that it is the parties themselves that solve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132236	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132237	One might say that in the situation here we are actually just trying to go in and balance the imbalance that is in the statements that are coming. And it is on the basis of the fact that the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, we believe, has now been very directly involved in the negotiations and has also helped to sharpen the confrontation in our opinion. It is also fair enough, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, if the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing believes that DSB's management is doing it well and correctly. There we just think DSB's employees, who keep the company running, if I may say so, also need a mouthpiece. And that's why we've gone into this. In principle, I do not disagree with Mr. Rasmus Prehn, but here, in our opinion, the situation has developed, so we thought it was necessary that we actually went in and interfered.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132328	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132342	As I have also stressed in several of my questions, it is extremely important for the Social Democratic Party to maintain the strong tradition that we have in Denmark for us to have a Danish model, a model in which the parties themselves solve this, because it is the parties that are best at solving it themselves. It is they who know where the shoe is pressing, and if it is that we here at Christiansborg are starting to make collective bargaining policy, then we are actually sawing over the branch on which the whole model is sitting, and that is too bad. That is why we are also critical of the fact that we are now in a situation where, on the political side, there are people who have interfered in this conflict by starting to make party contributions in relation to this. Of course, we acknowledge from the Social Democrats that it is difficult not to interfere. One is about to burst with a desire to come with good advice and kick in and interfere, because there is so much at stake: Christmas traffic, the fact that one can come by train and come home to the family and celebrate this party of pleasure, is so extremely important that there can be trains on time, that we avoid cancellations. And when you look at what the conditions are for the hard-working rail workers and others have, you also want to get involved and beat the table and say that this has to be all right. There are people working at high hours late in the evening, early in the morning, so that the rest of us can get on and off. You want to get involved, so that there are better conditions. Of course you do. One also wants to interfere, so that DSB as an organisation will have an opportunity to survive this incredibly tough competition, where unfortunately we can see again and again, day after day, year after year, that more people are choosing from the train because it is no longer attractive. So you want to give a helping hand so that you can get a better organization etc. There are plenty of things that make you think: let's get involved. But when we don't do it anyway, it's because we have to admit that sometimes you have to leave it to those who have to deal with it themselves. And there's a good union, and there's a DSB leadership, and they have to figure this out together. They have an interest in that. And, of course, DSB's management thinks that if it is that they get happy employees, then you also get a better service that provides happier customers. We have to call for this to be resolved in a memorable way, for it to be resolved in the spirit of cooperation, and for it to be resolved in respect of the Danish model. It would be wrong for us to stand here at Christiansborg and start interfering with it. It has been seen in other countries and this has not led to better conditions and has not led to better conditions for employees at all. The places where you have the best employees' rights are the places where you have strong unions that fight for these things and fix it with a model similar to the Danish one. That is why we must stand guard over that model and not undermine it. I'm sorry, I swear to God, there are politicians who can't help but meddle. I then acknowledge that the Minister has stood on the platform here and apologized a little or, at least, explained what happened and let it run away in his eagerness to come up with a general interview. However, it was unfortunate that the Minister was told about the employees that they saw over the branch they were sitting on. It is simply not good to take sides in the conflict, and certainly not to despise a group that is actually struggling to get the railroad to drive. That is really, really bad, and that is why we, as Social Democrats, want to distance ourselves from the Minister's attempts to interfere here. We do not want to go in the direction of the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative, in which they instruct the Minister to intervene in the conflict. We do not want to do so out of respect for the Danish model. We believe that it is the parties themselves that have to solve it, but of course we are hoping for a solution to this conflict for all the many reasons I mentioned before • we want a train that works, we want passengers who can take the train safely and in the certainty that it is running on time, that there are some employees who have proper conditions, proper working conditions, and that we have a management that can make DSB work so that we can cope with the competition that exists, also with alternatives such as private car and buses. So the conflict has to be resolved, but it is the parties that have to deal with it on their own. We have also made a proposal for adoption by the Social Democrats, and there are elements of what is a little like what has been said by the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative, because there are many things we have in common. What separates them is that we Social Democrats stand guard over the Danish model, we do not want to intervene. The proposal for adoption reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses its surprise at the Minister for Transport's action in the conflict between DSB's management and employees. The Folketing expresses its general recognition of DSB's employees and the efforts they make. In respect of the Danish model, the Danish Parliament wants the parties to find a solution themselves so that Christmas traffic and cooperation get back on track. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132834	Thank you. This proposal for adoption also goes further in the debate. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132843	As far as the proposal for adoption is concerned, I cannot quite understand why Mr. Rasmus Prehn can make it so that we from the SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative will interfere directly with the proposal for adoption we are making. In fact, it says: "The minister should contribute to a fair settlement of the conflict for all'. That is actually what it says about what we think should be done. How, sir? Rasmus Prehn can make it that we want to interfere, I don't understand. Is Mr. Rasmus Prehn is not aware of that. Rasmus Prehn is that, of course, there is a politically determined development going on, where DSB has to be prepared for all this procurement and privatisations that are ahead? Traditionally, this leads to an attack on employees' rights, their pay and working conditions. Is Mr. Rasmus Prehn agrees with me that this is what we are looking at, will some say? I think it is now very direct, but that is what we see coming and that is why the staff are responding, but that is why the Minister is going so hard into it, as well as sticking to the line laid for the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212132955	First of all, on the proposal for adoption itself, I would like to say that the Minister's contribution can be understood as interfering. I understand that it is a mild version, and one could have expressed oneself harder, and when one hears what Mr. Henning Hyllested of the Enhedslisten said in his rapporteur's speech, he was also harder, for he talked about directly convening a meeting where the Minister should sit at the table and interfere in the conflict. That's why in this text we look at the idea of going further in interfering. We're preoccupied with keeping this balance. We are concerned with guarding the Danish model, and that is why we are very careful. After all, we share the enthusiasm for solving this, also for the benefit of the employees. As to whether you see a trend towards undermining the conditions of employees, you have to be aware of it. I think I should be very careful about standing here on the platform and commenting on it, because then I am involved in interfering with what the agreement contains. But I can only note so much that in some of the discussions we have had on the part of the Social Democrats, among other things. with the Danish Railway Federation, but also with HK Traffic & Rail, it has been the case that they have stated that for some of the private agreements they have made with some of the private operators, they have found that there were good and reasonable and reasonable conditions, and I hope that they are able to find this, even as far as DSB is concerned, but it is for the parties themselves to negotiate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133116	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133119	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn has expressed it on several occasions that it is a pity that politicians cannot help but meddle. I hope that is understood correctly. In this regard, I would like to hear: was it also a pity that Magnus Heunicke interfered in these folding chairs tickets or whatever it was called? in 2014, when DSB intended to abolish the tickets, after which the Minister intervened in the case? Was it a shame, too, or was it just wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133205	These pat-out seats, by their very nature, have little to do with the Danish model, since there may not, I know, be that Mr. Villum Christensen has a different information base... there is no agreement between the folding chairs on the trains and a union. That is why it is not to compare. What my good colleague Mr. Magnus Heunicke, in his capacity as minister, was concerned that the capacity that was on the trains was being used and that there was still a possibility of using these folding seats, and there it was a pity that some kind of rationalization device tried to phase them out or remove them, and then he mingled. I think that was a very good example of a minister who wants to do something that sets an agenda, and I am proud to be on the side with Mr. President. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133254	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133256	Thank you. Fighting must grow, life must grow, it is written in a wise place, and that also applies to professional struggles sometimes. I'm happy and would like to sign that Mr. Rasmus Prehn then clearly announces that the fight does not belong in this Chamber. I have traced such a tendency to move things into the Chamber here, instead of swinging red tabs when needed, outside and elsewhere. I think that is a slippery slope that we should avoid, because what should the role of the trade unions be in the end? So thank you for the clear message. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Prehn, whether he recognises the need to streamline and modernise DSB so that we can get a good service at reasonable fares in the future. After all, we have discussed it ourselves, when we have been guests of the Danish Railway Federation, for some good debates. Does the Social Democratic Party recognise that there is a need to streamline and modernise, and this may mean that a little has to be touched in the pot in good cooperation between management and employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133353	Thank you to the Left's recognition of the firm course of social democracy in terms of supporting the Danish model. It is heartblood for us Social Democrats that it is the parties that are organising this, and so we should not interfere in it. This only means that it ends up with the lowest common denominator • we have seen that in many other European countries • so we have to have good employees' rights, and the organisations themselves do so. With regard to the need for rationalization, efficiency and modernisation, I would say that it sounds very good to some people, others may get a little feeling that it often ends up with employees having to pay the price, that they have to pay a little bit, that they have to work a little longer, that they just get a little less days off and so on. That's why I understand that some of these employees are worried. I would say that I see that we need a more dynamic, a more agile, a more visionary DSB that takes up the glove and provides a better service, and I think that you do that if you get employees who look forward to getting to work, who whistle on the way there, who think they have good conditions, who think they are being properly treated, there is a proper working environment, and they know that there is time for the family and everything else. It's service, and that's the way we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133504	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133506	There is not a single person in here who thinks that employees should have worse conditions, but sometimes, when you touch the pot, you can find some new ways to plan and arrange, which actually ends up benefiting both the company and the employees, and that is the exercise that we hope will now happen. It has been a core point for Enhedslisten, I understand that with the registration in Danish Industry, but can Mr. Rasmus Prehn confirms that another railway company in Denmark, which also has many members with the Danish Railway Federation, Arriva, has been a member of Danish Industry for many years, and this has not led to a worse employment relationship for employees. On the contrary, I have met many Arriva employees who are quite happy with their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133545	I can confirm that. I can also confirm, and I think I also said this in my rapporteur's speech, that the Danish Railway Federation is concerned about finding solutions and working on it every day. They have also praised some of the things they have been able to do with Arriva, and I think that with the experience they have, if only they could have the conditions introduced in relation to DSB, it would be a step in the right direction. But we must be careful not to interfere here. I just want to say that I actually find that the Danish Rail Union and their federal president, Mr. Henrik Horup is very concerned about finding new, more dynamic ways of solving this, and that's the way forward, so we're looking at finding the possibilities in the problems instead of the problems in the possibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133627	Thank you to the rapporteur. There will then be no further brief comments, and then a new rapporteur, Mr President, will be present. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133637	Thank you. As several others have mentioned, it is hardly ours in this Parliament to interfere in a conflict between two parties.So here it is even an independent public company. I am glad that the Minister was made clear that at least the Minister did not have a declared desire to interfere in this conflict or to favour any of the parties, but perhaps has got off a little wrong with the statement, as the press is of course also kissing. That's always the way it is, and we know it. This is born of a registration in Danish Industry, and I believe, as several others have also said, that there is a need for DSB to be able to deliver a better product and to deliver better prices. There are many reasons why passengers are fleeing DSB, but at least one of them is fares, and if you are going to run a more efficient business to bring down fares, it may also require you to organise everything in a different way. This does not mean that working conditions should be reduced, but I can give you a small example in relation to the agreements that have been: driving, for example. From Aalborg to Copenhagen today, you can't get a drink or a sandwich or something to eat, and it's simply because those who took that job, mainly ladies, had to have a collective salary that was similar to that of a driver. It is an excellent, sensible job that we could have offered some young girls under, for example. HK I must remind you that you get 118 kr. in an hour to sit down in Bilka and maybe this could have been a profitable business, and it could give a service boost to DSB. Instead, there is a deterioration in service. These are just some of the things that I think should be discussed. Then, like everyone else, the Danish People's Party is a great supporter of the Danish model, and it is of course the employer and employee who are going to solve this conflict. It is so gratifying that we are doing so, because agreements have been made here, as the Minister mentioned, and now we are dealing with the rest. After all, we all hope that it will fall into place before the fastest Christmas traffic sets in, because otherwise there will only be a loser in this, and that is the passengers, and none of us wants that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133920	Thank you. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Kim Christiansen I also have a proposal for adoption which I shall read out). Rasmus Prehn should we take his proposal for adoption first?). Yes, we do. I want you to read the adoption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133930	Thank you. On behalf of the government and the Danish People's Party, I have to make the following: Proposals for adoption • Train transport is an integral part of many Danes' everyday lives. It is therefore important for passengers that DSB provides the train product provided for in the agreement between the State and DSB. The State must respect both the Danish model and the act of the parties within the framework of this model as owner and contracting party. • V 43).
ParlaMint-DK_20181212133958	I assume the government is the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. That's good. This proposal is also part of the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134017	I actually think that Mr. Kim Christiansen's example with this one in a sales cart etc. In fact, it is an example of a political attitude towards it, and that is what we are expressing. An agreement has been reached there. It may well be that, as a politician like others, you think it is a hugely high salary they should be paid for it. But that is exactly what we should not interfere with. That is why I take it as an expression of the fact that, when you think it should be effective, you basically believe that what is left is that it is the staff who, through lower wages, have to pay for efficiency. Well, that's what the example shows, sir. Kim Christiansen. I would also like to ask: does Mr. Kim Christiansen not that the relationship is unequal? When it's a state company with politicians as owners and in this case it's a transport minister who manages the ownership... the relationship is well unequal. Then you can say that you do not want to interfere in politically and directly and come up here and come down here, but you have set a political course for the company, and if the political course means cutting wages, otherwise it cannot be done efficiently and cheaply enough remembering the example of the sales car • you are on the course that it is the employees who have to pay if the political desires for the company are to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134153	As I said, it is now an independent public company with its own board of directors and management, and there is the famous arm's length principle. That is why I think it is easy to equate DSB with all other major companies in relation to how to deal with such a conflict here. As far as the small example I gave is concerned, it is not a question of people going down in wages. It's just about whether there are some other working groups who could handle serving a sandwich. Is it to be the same level of pay as a driver with the training that a driver now has? It's kind of just that. Nor do I believe that the person who sweeps snow on the platforms gets the same pay. Nor do I know whether there is a requirement for him to be paid the same way as a driver. So we're just gonna get some proportions into it. It's just that you might have to use the employees you have in a more optimal way to get a better train operation, to get some prices that are attractive, so customers bother to take the train rather than get into their cars. It is a wish that at least also Enhedslisten has.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134248	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134257	But summa summarum stays, sir. Kim Christiansen, that one then actually goes in and interferes with the agreements that exist. The wage conditions that have been achieved for those who are sweeping out on the platform or where it may now be, or for the employee who is driving around with the sales car, are, after all, some who have been negotiated and who at some point have been created in agreement between DSB and the employees. If the development that one then wants politically means that they have to change it, one has, of course, interfered well and thoroughly. What I'm trying to point out is that that's what you do. And it's probably really hard to avoid, because it's just a state company and we have political views on it, and we have to have that too. That's why it's easy for us to get involved. It can't be avoided. Sir. Kim Christiansen is in full swing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134348	I absolutely don't think I am. I am just mentioning some obvious examples of how the services on DSB's trains have deteriorated just because they have been so locked in some agreements. There might have been another form of flexibility for the benefit of the passengers. After all, they're the ones you're there for. So it's not about me interfering or reducing the salary for anyone, but it's clear that what applies to a driver may be a slightly unrealistic level of pay if you're going to walk around with the sales vote and sell the Image-Bladet, sandwiches and cokes. That's why you've stopped that business.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134429	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134430	Thank you. I think everyone alive can understand this because you think it's a shame when there's no more kiosk service on these trains and you can't get a cup of coffee etc. But this is precisely a positive example of the rail union going in and trying to deliver a product, and it was not by demanding exorbitant wages, but by saying: we actually have an employee group here, namely the train drivers, who are nevertheless employed to ticket, who are nevertheless employed to handle the safety and stand at the doors and whistle at the platform, and who get a salary because there are some very special skills that need to be done, including to drive through, for example. The Great Belt Tunnel. They can then assume on top of it also to stand for the kiosk cart. So instead of having a special working group that is employed to stand for the kiosk cart, there is a group that already carries out some tasks that took in that task. So this is a very good example of how you actually tried to be flexible, innovative and dynamic. What then just happened was that there were some sitting either in DSB or in the Ministry and setting this out negatively, as if the group serving sandwiches alone did so, and then compared the group, which incidentally had all sorts of other skills and tasks, to an ordinary kiosk lady or man. And it's really, really a shame for the opportunity to think new and think offensively and think dynamically, as if it were what you actually wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134555	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134557	Well, I don't have to be smart about whether it was in all cases the one who was walking around clipping, who also had a sales car, that's not how I experienced it. I am an eager train passenger, I love to drive by train, but it is also my experience that when I get on in Hobro, before I reach Aarhus, three different people may have asked if there were new travelers, and that might be overkill. And then I'm surprised you don't have the option of carrying around a sales car if it doesn't cost anything. But the numbers I've seen show that it actually costs a lot of money with this. So you can always discuss that. But that is also the point of giving the employer an opportunity to organise the work so that it can be done in the most effective way possible, but of course it must be done in a constructive dialogue with the employees. And I hope that DSB, along with the Danish Railway Federation, will find a solution to this. Hopefully before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134653	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134654	Well, of course, there's always room for improvement. Well, there's the same thing at DSB. But is Mr. Kim Christiansen does not agree with me that it is, after all, cheaper to have a person employed, well enough for a reasonably high salary, which has a number of different work functions than it is to have that person employed and then an extra person in charge of the kiosk cart, employed? Well, that's the whole point of this. And then it is that you make a ghost out of it and say, "Oh and oh, a kiosk lady gets so high a salary." But it was not an ordinary kiosk lady, it was a person who also had a number of other tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134728	In relation to the manning over Storebælt, it is true that you had a different function, but on very many other routes it was not the case that it was an additional cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134738	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134749	Sir. Kim Christiansen said earlier that he was happy that DSB had joined the Danish Industry, and I think that one day we might have to try to spend a little more time discussing that part of it. But I'd like to ask you how, sir. Kim Christiansen is concerned that taxpayers' money and passengers' money, when buying tickets, go to support an organisation that so unequivocally supports the Left and Conservatives here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134812	I don't know if I have any comments on that. It can be said that the taxpayers' money is also going to pay the employees of the Danish Railway Federation, as I know unilaterally supports another wing here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134824	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134830	I thought that was sneaking around, I'd say to Mr. Kim Christiansen, because I think that is an obvious question. How can you be relieved of that? Could it perhaps be imagined that the Danish People's Party is in favour of buying such a special red ticket in the future, so that your ticket money can go to support one of the strongest class organisations and the biggest employers in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134848	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134850	Well, now I know Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge's relative religious attitude towards trade unions and the LO. So we have joined the DI, and there I feel just as a politician that, as I said, I have no position on it. I don't mind if they did it either. It's a choice they make as a company. I think it is a choice that DSB has as a company, i.e. whether they want to be a member of Danish Industry or a member of some other organisations. I don't think we should interfere either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134921	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. But there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212134932	Thank you for that, President. Like Mr. Kim Christiansen also loves driving by train. I've got something to wear, because I've actually been riding for seven days in a row with mr. Kim Christiansen on all routes in Denmark. It was quite a test, and it was not because of the train equipment or the train crew. No, joke aside, because it was a very nice trip, where we got good insight into the railway throughout Denmark, and then we got ammunition for a book. There is no doubt that train traffic means a great deal to a great many Danes. I was just talking to someone outside, a TV 2 employee who, to his great frustration one morning when a professional meeting was held, was supposed to have been in Odense at work and do something very important, and then it took several hours before he got over there. So it's something that worries people when there's unrest about the train operation. It means so much to people, and that is why we must unite all the forces to get it right. There are a number of challenges for the running of trains at the moment. Especially DSB stands in wet at the moment, and there are reasons for it. We all know the IC4 scandal, which is still giving way today, in the sense that we have unreliable material, where we should have had reliable material many years ago. There is then a solution for this up to 2030. It's started, but it's going to be a few years. We all know these many railings that have been set in motion. We have at the moment invested historically many billions in the railway, and it is money that has been allocated in 2009, well to notice money that exists. It needs to be rolled out and it causes disruption for operation. We have the big signal project for 20 billion. kr., which also needs to be rolled out. It also presents some challenges and some disruptions. So there are reasons why railway operations are not in top shape at the moment. One can say that DSB at the moment may be a bit like an ugly duckling, but on the other side of this they come out as a beautiful swan thanks to the investments we have made. Then we'll have everything else we're talking about where there's been an uproar around here lately. That is something that the Left clearly states, namely that it must be a matter between the social partners. We are not going to drag that into the Parliamentary Chamber. I am actually a little surprised that SF and Enhedslisten, who are very fond of the Danish model, choose to do so. But fine, then we'll take the debate. But the Left does not want to interfere in those negotiations. We want it to land in an amicable manner, and we note with great satisfaction that an agreement on the S trains was reached here a few days ago and there is still negotiation. That is exactly what we need to achieve, so we get calm and contentment among the employees, because of course you should be happy to go to work, and you should be happy with your relationship, so that we can build up the corps spirit, an organisation that DSB needs; so you pull on the same hammer, and so you are proud of your business, and so you deliver a product that the Danes are happy with at a reasonable price. That is what we want to achieve. We politicians' role is to order the music, if I may say so. On behalf of the passengers, we must order the train operation and build the necessary infrastructure, and so on, but the actual operation of the railway is, as I said, a difficult matter. We have to leave that to the DSB. That's why we have a contract between the state and DSB. That's why DSB gets in the vicinity of 3.5 billion. kr. a year in order to also drive places where it is not very profitable. We want a country that is linked. We have to leave this to DSB, and we politicians are not going to start tampering with the details there. There must be good cooperation between DSB's management and the employee organisations to solve that task. If it does not succeed, then it is clear that it will still be sorted out by the ugly duckling, that is, if we do not succeed, there will be some corps spirit and gathering on things around DSB. So that is, of course, the political desire for this. And, as I said, there have been very good notes here in recent days, so this debate has actually been somewhat overtaken by the results achieved and by the agreements reached here in recent days. Then I would just like to say in conclusion that I believe that we have a basic task on the railways. We have the paradox in Denmark that we spend a lot of tax dollars on our train operations. At the same time, we probably have something similar to the world's most expensive train tickets. So there is some paradox that tells us that we need to modernise and that we need to streamline. Not understood in that way that employees have to pay the price in terms of bad employment conditions, but anyone can see that we have to stir the pot and move on if the railroad is to have a relevance also in 20 years and 30 years, what I hope. Because if you don't, you're literally playing yourself off the field. So it is a bottom-up task that we are modernising DSB and that we are getting some enthusiasm and some pride about that business so that passengers start to flow in. The very clear precondition for this is that we have trains on time, the three t's, and that fares can be kept quiet. That's what the Left's political aim is in this. And then we must have that division of tasks in mind and not start interfering in something that belongs to the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135437	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135439	In the past, the Minister has stated that he wants a cheaper collective agreement, although not cheaper in terms of wages, but it is the case that an agreement is made up of many parts, and there may be working conditions that weigh as much as the money. Then Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, in the same words, a cheaper agreement with the Danish Railway Federation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135458	No, I don't get involved in that at all. Well, I want DSB to live up to the contract that they have with the state... it was also made by the red parties when you had the power... and then we have to renew it at some point. That's what I want to live up to. I have no opinion as to whether it should be a cheaper or more expensive agreement. The two sides will have to find out. However, I believe there is a common interest in getting the best possible product delivered for the resources currently available to DSB. And I think that can sometimes be reconciled by finding some new ways to arrange things in a good dialogue with the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135531	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135532	Thank you for that, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen so clearly distanced himself from the Minister in relation to not going for a cheaper agreement. So I would like to ask: has it created a nice atmosphere in the Left now to know that DSB with several million kroner in the quota for DI supports an organisation that so massively supports the rapporteur's own party?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135553	Well, at least we're happy with all the voluntary election contributions we can get. If there are some who support the policy of the Left, we are glad that we do not say no to that. I also understand that SF, Enhedslisten and other parties also do not say no when they receive good election contributions from elsewhere. It's a natural part of society. To start in such a way as to suggest that now the tax dollars are going to go to it, I think is quite upset. So there are plenty of other examples. For example: there is a deduction from the union quota. I think that is fine, but it is also well known that part of the trade union quota goes to the red parties. So I don't think we should get involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135626	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135628	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is doing a lot of talking about the fact that it is too expensive to drive trains, and we are 100% agreed that this is too expensive. But is there not something double in the argument? In other words, there must be a political desire for prices to be reduced. But how do you do that? Yeah, that's one of them. What the Minister of Transport has set the way for us must have some effective and cheaper agreements. But then you're a long way from talking about pay and working conditions. For it is true that an agreement is, of course, made up of many parts, but it consists primarily of agreements on wages and working conditions in a company. So I think there is something double about it; that is to say, you want cheaper tickets, but at the same time you want to swear that you want to go in and interfere, and at least it should not be created by means of cheaper agreements or a reduction in wages and working conditions. I don't think that's where Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's arguments are linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135728	Well, it's perfectly connected, because the key to making rail more efficient is that we have some rolling stock that can drive so that people don't keep and waste their working hours not being able to get out of the track • that we have some rails and some signals that work so that employees don't drive and waste their time. After all, this contributes to the enormous inefficiency of the infrastructure and the problems with the rolling stock that we now have. And as I said, we have set aside money for that, and there we have together launched a lot of things that make it better on the other side, where DSB will then become this beautiful swan. So this is absolutely crucial, as well as of course modernising workflows and getting better at meeting customers' needs and providing a service. I also think it is nice that you can have a cup of coffee or a cold soda on the train if you drive from Copenhagen to Aalborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135812	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135814	Yeah, better, but not necessarily cheaper. That is to say, it depends essentially on whether the employees, the employees of DSB, succeed in really renouncing their salaries and working conditions. And that is where I say that I do not think that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's arguments are all connected. If you want cheaper tickets and I understand that, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen wants it to be created, as I understand the argument, by having these effective agreements. For me, this is a cover-up for the fact that employees will then have to pay with poorer working conditions or worse wage conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135859	Not at all. Sir. Henning Hyllested puts left words in his mouth. We are not in favour of poorer working conditions, but we can see that management could find ways with employees to plan better, so that more efficient operation, etc. There are probably ways of doing that. If you have a good dialogue and a corps spirit in a company, you can find out a lot of things. Where there's will, there's road and runway!
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135920	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212135923	It was actually because I was a little bit over this context, as Mr. Henning Hyllested sees between wanting cheaper tickets and advocating lower pay and working conditions. Well, it doesn't have to be connected. I think, for example, that... The Socialist People's Party in 2011 went to the polls for it to be 40%. They may have been annoyed about this for many different reasons, but it was probably not because they wanted to advertise that there should be worse working conditions. However, it is interesting that the rapporteur of the Left speaks for it. Then it is the case that the Left is on the way with a new approach which, without reducing working conditions, can make it more attractive to take the train and for example. sure cheaper tickets, 'cause that sounds really exciting? We have just seen that they are doing it for free in Luxembourg, and it could be extremely effective in getting more people off the roads where there is congestion and into some more climate- and environmentally friendly trains. So I am curious to know what roads the Left has to secure cheaper tickets in public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140021	Well, that's right. SF tried with a very, very clear election promise about 40%. cheaper tickets in public transport, and then you got the government power, because a lot of people liked it and voted for SF. Then it happened that fares rose four times during the government period, so you have to take care of such promises, and that is not what I am about to do here. I'm just saying, once we've got DSB turned into a beautiful swan on the other side of this and got a much more efficient operation, because we have some trains that can drive the new is that this time we've chosen to buy some trains that can drive; that's a good step forward; then we'll get a much more efficient operation, and then it can benefit passengers in terms of better service, and in terms of reducing fares and becoming more competitive compared to, for example. The remote buses. And we may also be able to reduce the very, very large payment from the Treasury to DSB every year, so that we can use the money for some forward-looking investments, among others. on the railroad. So I'm not here promising cheaper tickets right now. I am just saying that the prerequisite for achieving this is that we should have modernisation and efficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140125	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140126	I fully understand how difficult this is, and we ourselves were in the situation, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen also refers to. It is difficult to make it cheaper. However, we must agree that in a situation that we are currently seeing, where unfortunately more and more people are choosing the car and fewer and fewer people are choosing the train, some kind of charm offensive is needed to make it attractive to take the train. Will the Left be involved with the rest of us, perhaps the Radicals, in making it attractive to take the train so that we move people away from the congestion that is on the roads and onto the trains where there should be an experience of better and more attractive service?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140209	Well, at least I'm on a charm offensive. It could be Pihl and Prehn traveling the country and creating a little cheerfulness. But again: I dare not promise that there will be any significant improvements here on the very short track, and I do not, because we have the problem of rolling stock where reliability is not in order; we have challenges with the signal project; we have challenges with the construction work that needs to be. That is why there will be irregularities, and that is what people are tired of. It is when you cannot be trusted that the train arrives on time, so that you arrive an hour or two too late at work. When people have tried it a few times, they take something else, for example. The car. And that is why I dare not promise that there will be improvements now, but I am sure that once the many billions we have allocated have been implemented, it will actually be very good on the other side. And in the meantime, I am sure that DSB's management and the employees, who are absolutely indispensable, have found the melody together again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140300	Thank you. Then there are no more comments or questions to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140312	Thank you. First of all, on this matter, I am pleased that the Minister has so clearly pointed out that he has no intention whatsoever of interfering in the conflict between DSB and the employees. So I do not really understand the premise for the question here either. After all, the whole purpose of having independent public undertakings is precisely to lead themselves and not by the Folketing or by a minister when a contract has been established. Having said that, I am sure that DSB will take the right path when you join the Danish Industry and try a more modern and flexible work organisation, since there is no alternative to this. There is, of course, a discrepancy between the product and the price. No matter how we turn it, there is no sync or connection between the two. We need to ensure higher productivity, which gives some better prices. The railways will be exposed to competition through the next railway package, and then, in fact, the company will be closed down if we do not keep up with time and ensure that there is a reasonable price/product ratio. Moreover, technological developments will probably mean that in one or another number of years' time there will be no need for drivers as much as typographs are needed today. Until then DSB will have to take care of its staff properly... there should be no doubt about that... but it should be in a way so that the company does not become too expensive. We can see how customers already see into long-distance buses, which run almost without subsidies and at half-price, if they do not buy a small UP! as extra car no. 2 or 3. That is the process we are currently seeing. So it will be a must that DSB is one hundred percent focused on the costs, not least the staff costs, if Danish trains continue to run on Danish railway lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140536	Thanks for the speech. Then there are some comments. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140543	I heard Mr. Villum Christensen says you should be 100% focused on the agreements. Should I understand that, sir? Willum Christensen supports that the goal is cheaper agreements, or how should it be interpreted?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140600	What I said was that one has to be focused on costs, as is the case in any other company that is in a competitive market, otherwise the company does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140615	Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140616	Well, if we could peel the little fine words about a hundred percent focus on the cost level, does that mean that the Liberal Alliance wants cheaper agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140628	We want agreements that allow DSB to compete so that we can secure Danish trains on Danish rails.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140640	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140643	I think I am following up on that, because I do not think it is very clear what Mr. Villum Christensen means. Because what do the words cover when it comes down to it? Well, the Minister of Transport has been pretty much on this in the past, hasn't he? Efficient agreements, the railway union saves the branch, they sit on themselves etc. etc. Is that what Mr. Villum Christensen means? Is it cheaper agreements, lower wages and working conditions that are needed to act in this market that is under construction in the railway sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140723	Some agreements may be appropriate in relation to having to act in an agile market, while others may be the opposite. If we agree that the railways operate in a competitive market, I assume we agree on that; nor can it be avoided in relation to what is going on in the European Union, and the direction we are moving in is no alternative to having agreements that allow the company to have a product that matches a price that is competitive. I guess it's that simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140809	Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140811	Yes, but I guess the problem right now is that DSB is almost trying to figure out what to say... gain some benefits from not concluding agreements with employees, such as those with employees. Knows from Arriva. It's the same deal they're working under now. But in Arriva there are 40-50 of those local agreements which regulate the framework of the agreement. And that is exactly what DSB's management, supported by the Minister for Transport, in my opinion, will not allow to happen on DSB's territory. If you ask the Danish Railway Federation today, they would rather have the corresponding agreements in DSB's area, which you have in Arriva's area, precisely because the employees who have very, very much influence on the organisation of working time. That's what DSB's management won't give DSB's employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140913	I will not go into the question of whether DSB's management fails to use any models that Arriva has worked its way through to the end of the day, so I would just get involved in things. I am just saying that I assume that we are working to have some agreements that will allow DSB to survive in the future as well and not be out of line. After all, it cannot help anything that we argue as if DSB lives in a closed pillar completely separated from the rest of the world, where productivity demands are constantly being demanded. And if they stand still because of rigid agreements, it will not be possible to survive in a competitive society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212140955	Thank you for that, and then there are no more comments. The rapporteur of the alternative is not present, nor is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is why it is now Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141007	Until about 10 days ago, I had not said so much as a small kennel or a small tweet about the conflict between DSB and the employees. I would try to keep the conflict in a stretched arm and see if it was not something that could be resolved between the parties, but if the Minister then chooses unilaterally to go in and tell us where he stands, then I also think the Minister went in at the same time and declared the bazar too open. We can then hear the Minister today drawing something ashore in relation to his earlier statements, and that is of course better than continuing out of the blind track. In the interviews to which we have returned at times, the Minister appears in his lustrous role as a provocator and, as usual, with no great sense of fingertips. He is also a provocator who has just entered the four train and clearly does not know what is up and down in the labour market. The Minister has then confirmed today that, despite some initial incantations, he actually supports the employers' basic desire to have a cheaper agreement. The minister then explained that it wasn't just about pay. No, we are just as aware of that, that is, there are other things that mean that you have an agreement that has costs, including to a large extent the working hours, and for this group of people the working hours are absolutely crucial in order to make family and leisure life coherent. So when the Minister supports a cheaper agreement, it means worse conditions for the employees. That is why, of course, it has great consequences when the Minister is so fully behind one side, namely the employer side. The employer side, DSB's management, puffs up and behaves like an old-fashioned employer who obviously has not understood that the employees and their associations are co-players and not opponents. Modern employers see their employees as a resource of knowledge and commitment and as some people you would like to let in also to make decisions about how to make operations work. As we have seen, it is not only the content of the agreements that has been provocative to the employees for good reasons; we have also seen a process in which, the day after the break in the negotiations, DSB sends a letter to the 99 people who have been elected to vote for their profession to cease. I am simply wondering about an employer's style, which also includes a zealous search for professionally active people, among other things. Facebook, where with more or less nice means they are forced to delete listings. I wonder why it is possible to go down to a level where people are expelled from a waiting room at Fredericia Banegard because they carry a badge that shows that they support the employees. DSB should behave like a modern employer who is responsible for the employees, including working hours that take into account the whole life, because it is the case that we work to live; we do not live to work. DSB must do so completely without undue provocation. After all, the Minister can still pay a penance for his mistakes by supporting employers so unilaterally in the past, and this can be done by sending a clear signal to DSB to come together with their most important resource, namely the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141409	Thank you. Then there are a few comments • or for the time being only one. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141414	Thank you very much, Mr President, to the Socialist People's Party. Karsten Hønge for a strong and, I think, committed speech. It is nice to hear the great commitment that is in the employees' working environment and working conditions in general. It's a pleasure. But just as much as we must safeguard the rights of employees here, we must also safeguard the Danish model and the fact that it is the parties that have to resolve this in remembrance with each other, rather than the political level that has to interfere with it. There I just have to hear the SF's rapporteur, if he is not nervous about interfering with what is actually a conflict that should be resolved between the parties; that one will devalue the Danish model when one begins at Christiansborg to take a political position on pay and working conditions, which should actually be negotiated between the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141517	There is just no fixed prescription for how to deal with labour market conditions. It contains several things. It includes the fact that the Minister decided unilaterally to go in and declare the bazaar open, to put it that way. Then we'll have to do something. We cannot, of course, have on the outside a picture that it should be representative of the political system that just one-sidedly support some zealous employers. We don't. So that's one explanation. The second is that our proposal for adoption does not envisage going in and interfering with the agreement itself, but giving a balanced picture and saying that DSB should go to its employees and find solutions and that we should refrain from acting provocative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141604	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141607	I can fully follow the desire to send that signal, and I believe that we all hope that we will resolve this conflict in a way in which employees can be satisfied. What may surprise me a little is that the SF has no more faith in the parties in order to solve this than that it is here at Christiansborg that we should interfere, and that it is actually the current minister who should sit down at the end of a summoned meeting, as Enhedslisten had said was what was needed. It may be that I am totally wrong, but I have had the impression that the Socialist People's Party, Karsten Hønge is certainly not among those who sit at the front of the bus when the minister's fanbus goes on a trip. Does the SF's rapporteur really believe that it is the Minister rather than the parties who are going to solve this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141655	I can be in doubt about how to find a way to bring the parties together. What is important here is just that there are some special situations. That is what I mean by the fact that there is no ready-made prescription for the relationship between the political system and the labour market. We are in some special situations, either when it is a public employee or it is employees of a publicly owned company who have some particular expectations and make special demands on us. They do so especially in a situation where the Minister chooses to join on the one hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141721	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, but then we have Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141730	I shall be very brief, because in the Radical Left we support the Danish model. We can see around the world that the way we have solved it in Denmark, where employers and employees together through their associations agree, how the labour market should work in the field in question, makes both employees and companies see themselves in it; it makes the rules that are decided are effective; and it also makes everyone have an influence on the rules that exist. We think this is a much better way to do it than to sit here in the Folketing and decide on pay and working conditions. The Danish model has been very good for Denmark and has created flexibility and an efficient society. This also applies to rail. And there is a conflict going on right now, or at least a debate in which agreements are renegotiated. As recently as two days ago, the parties got the country an agreement for the S-train network. We in the Radical Left think that we should actually encourage the two parties to negotiate further and find an agreement and then stay out of the way, because if DSB and the railway are to function properly in Denmark, it requires them to make an agreement. We in the Radical Left think that is the best way to find out for ourselves rather than to stand here and say a lot. Three proposals have been made for adoption: one of the government parties and the Danish People's Party, one of the Social Democrats and then one of the SF and Enhedslisten. We can support both the government parties and the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. After all, the procedure is going to be such that the governing parties and the proposals of the Danish People's Party will be put to the vote, and we intend to vote in favour of it, but we can see ourselves in the Social Democrats' proposal for adoption as well. However, we support the proposal for adoption which will be put to the vote tomorrow, I believe it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141928	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212141932	It's just for general information. There are several rapporteurs and now also the radical rapporteur who mentions that it is all well and good that agreements have been reached on shop stewards, and just the other day an agreement was reached on working time for the S-trainers. I think it should be noted that the agreements that have been concluded have been concluded with the clear reservation that there is no agreement unless there is an overall agreement. If you ask yourself, for example... Danish Railway Federation, you will be able to hear that their assessment is that there is currently disagreement about 95 per cent. of all things, and that there is really, really, really far between the parties. And it is in this situation that we are calling for some kind of initiative so that things do not escalate towards Christmas. We're calling for an initiative. Of course, the radical rapporteur is very fond of the Danish model, not interference and all that, but is it not true that the Minister of Transport has a dual role? In addition to being a politician and a minister, he also owns and manages the ownership of DSB and therefore, of course, has the opportunity to call in DSB's management with the hat and say: This is not possible; we cannot have that confrontational line that DSB is pursuing in our opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142056	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142058	I don't think I said the negotiations were going well. If you read ads on social media, I think you can see that the waves are going high, so I don't think it's in good shape. After all, it has been chosen a construction that states that DSB is a self-owned company and that there is what is called the corporate income tax principle that is an independent board of directors and an independent director. I think it would be wise for the Minister of Transport not to tell them how to do it, but to let them run the debate themselves so that we do not get into the same discussion that we had with the primary school teachers a few years ago, about who is interfering when and who is not interfering. So I think it would be a good idea for the Minister of Transport to stay out of it and allow DSB to negotiate and thus be responsible for the outcome they will end up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142149	Thank you, fine. Then there are no more rapporteurs. Transport, Building and Housing, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142159	Thank you. The starting point of this enquiry debate is, after all, a question from Enhedslisten and SF, and the question is: What can the Minister say about initiatives taken by the Minister as sole owner of DSB to ensure the normal settlement of Christmas traffic in the light of the standing conflict between DSB's management and the employees of DSB? There is, of course, a clear desire on this issue that I should intervene in some way in the conflict, so that there will be no uncompromising reductions in working hours leading to trains not driving as part of Christmas traffic. And from this point of view, this has been a really, really good debate because there has been a broad majority in the Folketing that does not want me to intervene. Apparently only Enhedslisten and SF believe that I should intervene in the conflict so that they can be absolutely sure that the trains are running as part of the Christmas traffic as this debate calls for. I think it is gratifying that there is such a broad majority in the Danish Parliament which is homage to the Danish model and which respects the fact that it has been established in legislation that DSB is an independent public company with its own board of directors, which I do not, of which the Folketing should not dictate the operation of which they themselves must. Now it expresses the proposal for adoption that Enhedslisten and SF have made, wondering about my action in the matter, because I have expressed support for the rationale behind DSB wanting to join DI. I must then express my surprise at the fact that this surprise comes from parties which, during the course of the debate, carried a badge for the Danish Railway Federation. In other words, one cannot choose more side of the conflict than by wearing a badge from one of the opposing parties on the floor of the Folketing. Now it has been put on, and it may be that it is because the Bureau of Parliament and the President have said that such things should not be put on during debates in this Chamber. You know that, but you do it anyway, because it is so important for Enhedslisten and SF to interfere in the conflict between DSB and the Danish Railway Federation that you also want to violate rules on how to act in the Danish Parliament. However, one wonders why, on behalf of the government, I have given support to the rationale behind DSB joining DI and I wonder why. Then it has been said during the debate that the fact that DSB joins the DI must be a pleasure for the Left ^ it was especially the Left, it suffered because DI supports the Left financially. I have no knowledge of whether or not DI does, but at least they have done so in the past. However, I have to say that DSB has entered explicitly on the assumption that DSB's contingents do not go to party support. Now I don't remember if it was Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested or Mr. Karsten Hønge, who said that, but I think they both know that's what happened. And that is why it is not a matter of course to exonerate the Left's rapporteur from the Chair of the Chair of the European Parliament as to whether he is happy that DSB's registration with the DI might trigger party support to the Left. That is not right, and therefore not a question of substance. But let me just conclude by welcoming the broad support for not interfering in the conflict between DSB and the Danish Railway Federation. I very much appreciate that we have the broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142616	Thank you. Then there are a few comments. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142621	Well, I'm not hiding at all that I support the employees of DSB and their perception of things and their demands in this regard. I think it is right and proper that they should maintain the influence they have on the organisation of their own working time; that is one of the points I made in my rapporteur's speech. And that must also be seen in the light of the fact that, in my opinion, the Minister for Transport intervened. I think that is much more weighty, because the Minister for Transport has a dual role to play. I would like to know whether the Minister of Transport does not recognise that he has a dual role. As a politician and minister he naturally has some desires for how the company should develop, but at the same time he is responsible for the fact that the company actually also works. After all, it is the Minister's responsibility that the shit doesn't collapse hoof, you can't say that, I'm sorry! It's the Minister's responsibility. It's a delicate balance. It is just that I do not quite understand why the Minister then takes the management's side in the negotiations and in the conflict with the employees in that it is the company as such, including the employees for which the Minister is responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142751	Well, I'm not taking sides with the leadership in the conflict. I have only expressed support for the view that DSB could make a registration in DI work well in terms of having a good and efficient railway operation. And that is my starting point. That's right, sir. Henning Hyllested says that I am both a member of parliament and a minister, and that as my ministerial post I manage the state's ownership of DSB. But the state has decided that this should happen without me interfering in the operation. It is stated in the law, which is now 20 years old, that DSB is an independent company with its own board of directors, which appoints its own management. So in relation to the ownership that I administer on behalf of the state, it is stipulated in a law that I must not do so, as Mr. Henning Hyllested asks me to. Sir. Henning Hyllested asks me to do something that under the law is actually not legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142903	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212142904	Yes, I would venture to say that is an over-interpretation of the law in question. There is nothing to forbid it from the Minister, and there is no one who would lift an eyebrow if the Minister called DSB's management in for a meeting. It could be a meeting of companies that I proposed in my rapporteur's speech and told the management that a new agreement has now been reached. Actually, it's right to the right. The problem has been solved in Arriva under the same agreement; the agreement, the framework agreement, has been changed with 40-50 local agreements, exactly what the fight is about in DSB. Clearly, DSB's management will not be involved in this, i.e. copying or imitating the way it is done, despite the fact that it is in fact what has been done so far, when there have been a lot of local agreements to regulate the agreement in the Danish Railway Federation. Thank you, President-in-Office.). It does not need to be changed because agreement has been changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212143001	For the third time, thank you! And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212143006	I have not sought a detailed insight into the conflict issue which Mr. Henning Hyllested here asks, and it's because of the one relationship that it's not something I have to interfere with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212143020	Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212143021	I think it's almost sweet when the minister hands out a helping hand to Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen said that he might now have been left with some things he could not answer. I did not ask at all about the direct financial contribution; I just said support. Now I know that it may come as a surprise to a liberal minister, but money is not everything; that is not all. You can do anything else. That is why it is all about having a strong organisation that clearly supports the Left and the Conservatives in particular. But let me ask: how much money does the Liberal Alliance get in from Danish Industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212143057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212143059	I am not aware of that, but I can deny that socialists do not care about money. I do not know anyone who cares more about money than socialists, above all other people's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212143111	Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. As I have said, the vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Thursday 13 December, which is tomorrow. Then I shall postpone the sitting for half an hour, because we will not start Question Time until 1 p.m. 15. The meeting is suspended until 8 a.m. 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150005	Today's meeting is resumed. Let's start with question one. It's for the Secretary of State. The questioner is sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, whom I would ask to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150022	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150027	Thank you. What is • on the basis of the adoption of query no. F 14 on Saudi Arabia... the government's position that Danish abattoirs account annually unknown amounts in halal certification fees to the Islamist organization World Muslim League?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150046	Thank you for the question. It's gonna come, among other things. against the background of the killing of the Saudi journalist Khashoggi, who was deeply worrying. The government has repeatedly stressed this to Saudi Arabia, both bilaterally and with the European Union, and we have also stressed the need for a credible and thorough investigation and for all those involved to be held accountable. On 22 November, in the light of the situation in Yemen and the assassination of Khashoggi, I decided that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should suspend authorisations for exports of arms and military equipment to Saudi Arabia, including dual use products which could be used to violate human rights. I am very pleased that on 4 December the Danish Parliament adopted the V 22 following the question debate on F 14 on 29 November, and I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Danish People's Party for voting in favour of the proposal together with the governing parties. The government is already working through the EU and the UN to improve the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia and, of course, the government intends to continue to do so. I am not aware of the certification procedures followed by Danish food companies for commercial reasons. It's the Ministry of the Environment and Food. The Ministry of the Environment and Food states that halal certification as a starting point is a matter between slaughterhouse companies and private halal control bodies and that Danish authorities have no control function in relation to halal slaughter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150208	Thank you for your answer. But it's just thin enough with all due respect, sir. Minister. The reason I put the question to the Foreign Minister is, of course, that the World Muslim League is an organisation based in Saudi Arabia, and when we were talking about Saudi Arabia quite recently, and concerns were expressed about several issues in Saudi Arabia, I thought it was appropriate to put this question to the Foreign Minister in particular. It's true that in the first place it's another ministry that may be looking at these halal certification fees when they take place in Denmark. But the reason why I am asking the Foreign Minister is that it is an organization founded in Saudi Arabia, and I am, of course, linking it with the general view we have in Saudi Arabia at the moment, and, incidentally, the look we have had over the past many years on what kind of cash flows are going from Denmark to different places abroad. If I may recall the agreement that was made on terrorist financing and money laundering quite a few months ago, it is also clear that there is a focus on the fact that there are negative forces from extremist environments that challenge the security and cohesion of Danish society, and it is crucial in this respect that law enforcement authorities are able to combat terrorist financing effectively. It is in this context that the Minister should see the question. In other words, a large bag of money goes directly from Denmark to a highly dubious organization in Saudi Arabia. I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's in-depth comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150346	But unfortunately, we don't get much longer. For it is the case that the certification procedures mentioned here, and which Danish companies follow for commercial reasons, are therefore the Resort of the Ministry of the Environment and Food. It's not my resort. I fully agree with the questioner that we must always be aware of what is of cash flows and who is financed, etc. But it is not a matter that is on my table at this stage in such a way that I see the opportunity for me to do something different from what we are doing at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150424	But what is rather the pattern in these questions about halal certification fees is that when you ask a food minister for example, they focus solely on what happens in Denmark. When you ask a Minister for Justice what happens to the money collected for the various organisations, he will not answer and hide under the fact that he cannot because it is an area under PET. And when I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is, at least in part, the right person to address it to and to relate to an organization abroad, then you will not reply either, on the grounds that it is another ministry. I think it is a little thin that a single government, one might say, agrees that this is not what one wants to talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150505	Then it is good to know that the Danish People's Party is at least on its way in government according to its own ambitions. Then, of course, you can get completely different balls on the soup, and we'll all be looking forward to seeing how it's gonna work. What I can just say is that this is the case at the moment, and unfortunately I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150518	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150520	Does this mean that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has no idea at all that we have an organisation which is certainly extremist? It is referred to as an Islamist propaganda machine, which is spreading messages at the very rougher end. Now it's nice to have the Minister of Justice sitting next door, because he's the one I talked to about this case 14 days ago. After all, no one can be in doubt about what kind of organization it is. Doesn't one have any eyes at all for Danish money to go to this organization? What more is needed before you think you're going to react? Should it be directly to a terrorist organization, or should it be directly to the Saudi regime? Is there no limit to when you like to draw a line in the sand?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150601	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150603	Yes, I can guarantee there's a limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150608	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen for today's work. We move on to Question 2 to the Minister for Justice, and the questioner is Mr. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150622	Thank you, President. What is the Minister's view that criminals dealing with illegal morphine drugs are generally at risk of lower penalties compared to criminals acting on illicit drugs, and does the Minister believe that there is a need for greater equality in penalties between the two types of crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150641	Thank you for the question. I do not think it comes as a surprise to the questioners that it is my clear opinion that we should hit hard on the illegal sale of drugs. As a society, we should not accept the insecurity and crime that are generally associated with this type of crime. The current criminal provisions of the law on drugs are designed in such a way that the court must place emphasis on the harmful effects of the illegal substance at the time of the sentence. Morphine preparations can be different in effect, concentration and harmful properties. Therefore, in cases of illegal resale of morphine preparations, the punitive measure will typically depend on a forensic statement of the product sold and its harmful properties. For the same reason, it is difficult to say anything about the general level of punishment for the illegal resale of morphine preparations. The authors of the question state that criminals who trade in illicit morphine drugs are generally at risk of lower penalties than criminals who trade in illicit drugs products. When it comes to morphine, the Danish Health Authority has stated that it is most obvious to make a comparison with heroin. However, Heroin is absorbed more quickly into the body and gives a stronger effect than morphine, and therefore the Danish Health Authority also generally estimates that there is a greater risk of harm in heroin than in morphine. That is why I also think it makes sense, as a starting point, to penalise the sale of heroin more severely than the illegal resale of a morphine preparation, because the substances are not considered to be equally dangerous. The way we set up the penal system is a very good way of escaping.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150828	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This is an extremely nuanced and complex problem in terms of how to deal with it and solve it. But I will have to drill a little bit in the Minister's answer to the question. Because if I look at section 191 of the Criminal Code on gross drug trafficking, I have understood the current rules in such a way that you have to trade with a minimum of 3,000 units in order to get into the category where § 191 can be used to punish. It can be said that 3,000 units can be anything, and as we understand the current rules, it can be from the mildest form to the hardest form. I would therefore like to hear, when the Minister is given the floor, whether there is a need to turn that screw and say that it simply takes less before one gets up in the hard paragraph. However, 3 000 units are a lot, so there can be no doubt that they are done because they have some bad intentions; they are done because there is a lot of money at stake. I mean, there's a big economy in this, and that's why I'm obviously interested in how the minister feels about turning on that screw. And then I want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can confirm that in the past it was the case that the restriction was 5,000 units, but that the Attorney General decided to reduce it to 3,000 units. It was in the first round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212150957	To the end, I can say that I do not know, but I would very much like to find out. To the first, whether 3 000 units are needed, I would say that this is a bit complicated, because it is both about what the content is and how dangerous the individual morphine preparation is and so on. In its guidance, the Attorney General has established when illegal sales are covered by the law on drugs and criminal law respectively, and it is true that illegal sales of more than 3,000 units will, as a starting point, be subject to criminal law, but no separate position has been taken on the sale of morphine preparations. On the other hand, 25 grams of heroin will, as a rule, be covered by the penal code. So this is something that I think we should discuss in greater detail. What does that mean? Where, then, will the limits lie? What will this have to do with our entire penal system? It is very difficult for me just to give an account of here and now that the time has elapsed, I can see.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151057	That is our view of this, and I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply; the question of the one thing that the Minister was unable to answer in writing will be followed up in writing, and then the Minister will have to reply in such a way that there is a discrepancy between the damage to users of this substance and the penalty that the seller can face. I mean, it takes so many units before you really get up there where it really hurts, and I can't really understand that there has to be that disproportion when it comes to morphine. So I just want to say that has any thought been given to what could be done to tighten up this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151144	No, not like that, I must be honest with you before the authors asked this question. I mean, there's always new drugs coming in. It is the same as when we discuss what with mdma and what we do there, but these are not new preparations, one can say, understood in that way, that we have known about morphine for a long time. The problem is that there is very little case law on the illegal sale of morphine preparations and that the sentences are old. So it's possible, it needs an adjustment. But the questioner knows just as well as I do that the more we start to look at adjusting this, the more we have to assume that it can bring some consequences into the criminal chain and the criminal services, etc., and I think that we should then just have an open discussion about it, or that we should at least discuss it with our eyes open to what consequences it can have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151230	Then I would like to welcome the co-questioner and that is Mrs Susanne Eilersen. It is the case that the parties can choose to have two questioners for the same minister in the same round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151240	Thank you. And also thank you for the Minister's reply so far. But that is one thing the Minister will have to start looking at in relation to the spread of it. In Fredericia it has been a widespread problem for a long time, and it is in fact the case that it is estimated that between one third and half of what is circulating in this morphine market is actually sales from private citizens who get it delivered from the doctor. And that is why I think the Minister should look at it. We simply lack some tools in the municipality. The police have a lot of tools out there to do something about this. So I hope I will hear the Minister now say that this is something that he will start to take a little more interest in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151330	Well, I certainly think it's very serious. I also know Fredericia's case and we must take it very seriously. I think, to be perfectly honest, that our challenge is that we do not have so much information on the extent of illegal sales of prescription morphine preparations in Denmark. Well, we don't know how extensive it really is. I think it is very interesting to look at it more, because I think it is relevant. I certainly think so. I'm just saying that drug crime is generally a focus area of the police. That, of course, is something we are aware of. We're gonna have to take a very active look at this, too. I am just saying that we cannot look in isolation at the morphine preparations and treat them out of context with how the other legislation is related to substances of different kinds, preparations of different kinds. After all, there is also somewhere a balance in terms of danger. I don't understand that, but we have the National Health Service to help us determine how dangerous things are. I would like to discuss this openly. I'm just saying that we have to be aware that every time we turn a button, we obviously have to see what the consequences are. And then, of course, we must take political responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151441	So it is young people we are talking about here who become addicted. And it turns out that the degree of dependence on this morphine, whether it's life-threatening or not, is quite large. Then you just take one or two pills, you actually become addicted to it, and then we also know that addiction can lead to both theft and much else. It can be difficult to impose sanctions because the pills in one pocket are legal, but then when they come into another pocket, they are not legal. And if there is no sanction option and people know that there are no sanctions, there is nothing to prevent people from continuing to make a profit on the resale of any prescription medication. So I hope something happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151526	Yes, and I think we should go ahead and discuss this. I think that is very relevant. It is not the case that it is free of charge, but it is clear that in these cases, as the previous one asks, Mr President. Peter Kofod, mentioned, needs to get up around those 3,000 units without that being quite firm, but it's around there to get us up in the really tough penalty frame. Well, it's actually the case, according to section 191 of the Penal Code, that there's a tighter penalty of up to 10 years in prison for certain violations of this. And it may come into play if the drug is sold to many people or for a significant remuneration. But I hear a little bit that these are the smaller parts we need to talk about a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151605	Then we go back to the main questioner and that is the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151609	Thank you. I just noticed a few things the Minister said. About this thing with the 3,000 units to get up and where the minister correctly quotes section 191, we think that the problem is that too rarely one gets up there. Well, it's too hard to get up and use those good tools as it would be in section 191. And that is, in fact, one of the main problems. If we have at least been told that we have had a limit of 5 000 units in the past and now have a limit of 3 000, then everything else just means that the limit can be reduced. So what we would very much like to explore with the Minister how we can do again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151650	I understand that the questioners probably do not want any relaxation in this area, but it just takes us to sit down and look at it. Because regardless of whether we are talking about numbers, we still have to go, I think, to stick to the fact that it is also about the dangers of drugs and what the penalties are. Well, there's a difference between whether you sell one or the other. But we are happy to discuss this. I am just also burdened with the places in our prisons and the economy of the Criminal Services and everything else, but we can have a good discussion of that at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151723	Thank you to the Minister for Justice, thank you to Peter Kofod and thank you to Susanne Eilersen for today's efforts. We move on to question 3, and that's Mr. Knox. Benny Engelbrecht, the Social Democratic Party, who questions the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151736	Thank you, President. I read out the question: Will the Minister confirm whether the Minister agrees with his ministerial colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior's statement on TV 2 NEWS on Tuesday, 4 December 2018 that in a situation where the government has to slow down the economy, it will slow down the growth of public consumption and that the government believes that it is a more logical way to go than to postpone tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212151802	Now I shall try to make such a cliffhanger and say that when I have finished my introduction, I will give a very clear answer to the question but first of all an introduction. Fortunately, it is the case that the government has organised a fiscal policy that means that, although we have a recovery at the moment, where we have a boom in both 2015, 2016 and 2017 with growth rates of over 2 percentage points, we have a significant increase in employment, a large fall in unemployment, and that more than 153,000 more private jobs have been created since the 2015 elections and that the number of people on cash aid since the cash aid ceiling was introduced in 2016 has been reduced by more than 30,000, and despite the fact that we are in such a strong economic situation, there is no indication that we are entering an overheating when looking at inflation rates or wage increases. What is our challenge is, so to speak, to have the capacity in the economy to continue growth without running into this, because unfortunately we see that companies are getting increasingly difficult to recruit the right workforce. That is precisely why we need a financial policy that is adapted, and that is what we will have with the Financial Law Agreement. Then we tighten up in relation to the planned structural balance; we take a little air out of the Danish economy forward-looking. Therefore, there is no sign in the sun and moon that we will be in a situation where it will be necessary to tighten up. If, in a theoretical situation, we were to tighten up, it would be more efficient economically to tighten up by reducing public spending than by postponing tax cuts. And it will, because tax cuts affect both the demand and the capacity of labour. Thus, it affects both how much labour is being offered and how much labour is being demanded. So if you postpone tax relief, you reduce the supply of labour. If you delay public spending, you do not reduce the supply of labour; you only reduce demand. And that is why it has a much clearer effect on counteracting overheating in the economy than if taxes were changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152021	First of all, I would like to agree with the Minister for Finance's initial analysis, i.e. the analysis which indicates that there is no prospect of overheating. It can well be said that some of the challenges that we might rather fear in the very short term are what the consequences may be of, for example, the current UK considerations in relation to brexit. They are so topical that neither the Minister nor I probably have any idea what is going to happen later today. I guess the British themselves haven't. This kind of thing can only be seen calmly as a far greater risk than the risk of potential overheating. So just to begin with, I agree with the Minister for Finance in that part of the analysis. If I still feel a little called to ask a follow-up question to the second part, it is in fact because it is not the case that, just because you can discuss whether an action has a short-term, different effect, then still the most correct thing to do is to do. Of course, the natural thing would be to ask: what part of public spending will be tightened up if necessary? Is it the case that you have to make public employees redundant, or is it the case that you are speeding up, for example? Public works down? That is a very important discussion to take. And then, at the same time, whether you are looking at what tax cuts, if any, would have to be made. There is a very, very large difference in the impact of different tax cuts, also in relation to supply. So I do not think that, firstly, things can be said quite as simply as the Minister does, and secondly, I think that, in a situation where our public sector is very pressured, it is dangerous to put up such a perhaps theoretical scenario as was done by the government last week.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152244	Well, now I didn't put up a scenario. I just stand here as the humble servant of the people and answer the questions that the people's representative asks me. That is why we could have avoided this whole discussion about whether a hypothetical situation might have to be ruled if the question had not been asked. Now it has been put forward and, of course, I am trying to answer it. It is just that, regardless of political views, it is undoubtedly technical that reducing public consumption has a faster and more effective effect on reducing overheating than changing taxes. And that is precisely because reduced public consumption alone reduces demand, but not on the supply side. It is true that there are different taxes and different effects, but all taxes ultimately have some effect on the supply of labour. That is why it is true that changing the tax component reduces demand, but at the same time it also reduces the supply of labour. That is why we will have a less effect than if we would theoretically have done so in the public sector. But I would prefer to steer the government and the Danish economy there, that it will not be a theme at all, that is, that it remains hypothetical and that it is not something we are going to do in the real world. And there is, in fact, a very good opportunity for us to do so and also to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152405	Although it is a matter of economics, we have limits on speaking time. I know these are complicated questions, but try to stay within speaking time. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152414	I would just like to follow up by pointing out that it is not the questioner who has raised this issue in the first place, but has just wondered why a representative of the government expressed such a view. So I am pleased that the Minister for Finance emphasises that this is not a scenario that stands for immediately. The reason why I think it is important to make it clear is that we have quite a lot of public employees who think they are running strong enough in advance. In fact, I think it is important that we send out the signal that there should be no redundancies, even in a situation where the Danish economy may be a bit under pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152454	In fact, I believe that it will be seen that not only in this year has there been an increase in the number of public employees, but that when we look forward to 2019 we also see an increase in the number of public employees. I think that is fair. We have proposed that both municipalities, the Danish regions and also the state increase their activities in 2019. There has been money for this in the Danish economy. That is why it will not be a question of fewer public employees. In fact, there will be a limited increase in the number of public employees, even in the near future. The overheating scenario is not relevant. It's purely hypothetical. And so, of course, my answer to what we would do in a hypothetical situation was also hypothetical.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152536	The questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152536-2	Having used the word hypothetically sometimes just saw that in the hypothetical scenario, our challenge will be quite different. We must say, for example, because of a hard brexite, as they call it, that we are in a situation in which there are quite different challenges to be solved in all cases. Hopefully this is something that we will then be able to resolve in broad agreement if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152605	I will certainly bet we shall do so. There's a risk of overheating. We're working on that. There is also a risk that the Italian economy will pull Europe down. There is a risk associated with the UK and their future, depending on how they handle brexit. There is a risk compared to the United States. Anyway, the world isn't risk-free. We should just welcome the fact that in cooperation we have created an economy in Denmark which is strong and forward-looking and which will be able to withstand less shocks. We must then make sure that we can also deal with Italy, the UK and the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152641	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, but the Minister will have another opportunity on the next question. That is Question No 4, and it is Mrs Astrid Krag who has questions for the Minister of Finance, and Mrs Astrid Krag is a Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152657	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister think that a higher amount of 200 DKK is available? extra per year for the most disadvantaged old-age pensioners can offset the welfare savings of at least 1.5 billion. kr. next year, which is the consequence of next year's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152713	Then I can't make the same cliffhanger here as I did to Mr. Knox. Benny Engelbrecht's question, simply because the conditions in the question are wrong, and therefore we cannot give a clear answer to the question. So let's just start from the end. There are no savings on welfare next year. There are increasing welfare costs in our municipalities, there are increasing welfare costs in our regions, and there is increasing welfare on the basis of the finance agreement made between the government and the Danish People's Party. Then I am delighted that we, together with the Danish People's Party, agree to support the pensioners' economy. It will be the case that for pensioners who have what is called full supplementary pension benefits, basic amounts, pension supplements and full supplementary pension benefits after tax and housing benefits, there will be a profit of approx. 200 kroner. more available in that situation. Let me take some of the other groups that may be: if you have pension supplements and a little bit of pension savings, because of the increased amount of deductions that we have put into it, you will have a significantly greater advantage in that. For example, if you have 100,000 kroner. in a private pension savings, this will already mean a gain after tax next year and after any housing benefit of a good DKK 2,250, and this will be increasing towards 2025. So there is room in the agreement we have made here, both to increase welfare and the budgets of the municipalities and regions. They have. They've used the frame we've given them. I find that gratifying. At the same time, however, there is room for the individual pensioner to get some more money between his hands, and the fact that, as a pensioner, one can go out better and prioritise one's own money, I actually think is also one of the bourgeois welfare in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152921	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212152922	Let me just start by saying that we are delighted that pensioners have been given a higher amount of money, so we should not be fighting for that at long last, I can say to the Minister for Finance. But the reality is that very many municipalities save on the budgets for elderly care. After all, we hear some sad discussions every year when the savings catalogues are put forward, and also in the final budgets we see savings. That is, of course, despite the fact that, after every financial law and after every economic agreement with the current government and the current Finance Minister, we have heard this very thing about the fact that now there is a boost to core welfare, there are no savings, now it is all good news for the elderly and for those who depend on our welfare societies. Nevertheless, we see that there are 3,700 fewer employees in the care of the elderly. One in four employees in our nursing home experience fewer colleagues and there are local savings. In September, a survey was carried out in which six out of ten municipalities who replied expected savings in the area of the elderly. So I'm gonna have to ask you again. I agree with the Minister for Finance that pensioners are well off getting a higher amount of money, even if it is small, i.e. DKK 200. a year for those who receive the least. I think that this is very bad for the deterioration we see in our care for the elderly around us. Can the Minister not explain how it is related to the elderly, who now experience, as one sees it being discussed in some places, to having their bath replaced with washing with wet napkins, that is, it held up to the 200 DKK, where on a good day you can get about half an hour of privately purchased home help, well to mark the year. It's somewhere between one and a half baths. How can these two things be balanced against each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153112	I am delighted that when you look at the figures for the municipalities, they have not just lived up to the fact that the extra funds that have come from the Folketing and from the Finance Laws have gone to the area of the elderly, no, they have actually added something to the decentralized. This means that if you look at how much money is spent together in the area of the elderly, more money is spent. So how do you spend the money in a decentralised way, out in the municipalities? There I have the experience that the municipalities have to choose how they use them themselves. I thought at one point that the Social Democratic Party had come up with a clue where it was thought that one should have such a hand away reform, so that one should not interfere in what the municipalities chose to do with their funds. Now I understand that the questioner would like to have his hands down in the municipalities and decide what should happen because there can be no municipal autonomy to choose different directions. I think it is essential that the municipalities take responsibility for what they do, including in the area of the elderly. I can see when we look at the figures, the reports, the accounts, that is, what has been spent, that the municipalities have spent more money every year when we have given them more money from the Folketing in the area of the elderly. And they have even spent more than what is given, even when you look at the budgets that lie, for both 2018 and for 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153221	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153223	But of course, I was just about to say to the Minister for Finance, because there will be more elderly people and more older people. Next year alone there will be 25,000 more elderly people over 70 years of age. So, of course, it will also increase in kroner and ear what the municipalities use. But when we look at the cost per. In other words, what kind of welfare and quality is out there, what you experience when you receive either home help or live in nursing homes, how fast the race is and how pressured the employees are, when you see the discussions about savings that are in the municipalities, then it is very bad that we have to hear the Minister of Finance again stand and say that now there is just a guarantee of core welfare. Can the Minister explain how this statement can be linked to the savings we hear about in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153306	Unfortunately, Mrs Astrid Krag is stuck in a line of thought which says that the funds available in the public sector cannot be used better tomorrow than they have been able to do today. But the reality of the world shows that municipalities have been able to spend the money better than they have done historically. Plus, the public sector should not continue to do things if the costs that exist are something we want less of. What we have done is that we have re-prioritized. We have removed funds from administration. We have removed funds from bureaucracy. We have removed funds from areas where we would rather not spend so much money and moved them to the bourgeois welfare. That is why, in the agreement with the government about next year's economy, the municipalities said that 600 million have actually been released. kr. within the same framework and that it has moved on to citizen's near welfare. That is why Mrs Astrid Krag's calculation of what is actually available to make the welfare of the individual elderly does not match. Because Mrs Astrid Krag does not include all the millions released by reducing in areas where we no longer need to spend the money that we thought was unnecessarily spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153414	Well, it will soon be very high-blowing, and I am now told that I do not recognise that the money can be spent better tomorrow than it is today. So let me try to make it very concrete. Does the Minister of Finance think that it is an expression of spending the money better tomorrow than today, if, as has been discussed in Kerteminde Municipality, you go down to a bath a week and that the elderly can be washed on weekends with wet wipes instead of water and soap? Is it better to spend the money tomorrow than today? Is it better to spend the money tomorrow than today when, as you have done in the municipality of Elsinore, you cut back on the activities of the residents of the nursing homes? Is it to do better tomorrow than today when, as in Randers Municipality, you have to find 2 million. kr. by closing relief and care spaces? Is that what the Minister of Finance is referring to when he says that this is quite simply connected because we are just doing things better tomorrow than today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153503	I think that should be addressed with local politicians. You have to take that up with the mayor of Kerteminde with the mayor of Randers. And perhaps Mrs Astrid Krag is closer to that than I am, as both places I know are party colleagues of Mrs Astrid Krag who are responsible for the choices you make. What I am responsible for, for example, is that you take 100 million. kr., which has so far been spent on a business promotion system, and gives them to the municipalities, so that they can do something more for the bourgeois welfare. The municipalities fully recognize that they have gotten it. This is a very concrete example of transferring funds from business promotion to citizen-friendly welfare • 100 million. kr. extra for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153542	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. We move on to the next question, which is also from Mrs Astrid Krag. The question is for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153550-2	Would the Minister himself be satisfied to receive DKK 200-250. more in hand a year if the price was deterioration of core welfare, on which he himself was deeply dependent in everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153603	No, and therefore it is also gratifying that it is a completely hypothetical and wrong scenario that is put up as a prerequisite for the question here. For there is no deterioration in the core welfare of the agreement made between the government and the National Association of Municipalities. There are means for municipalities to strengthen core welfare, there are means for the Danish regions to strengthen their core welfare, and in the financial agreement with the Danish People's Party funds are also provided for strengthening core welfare in a number of areas, while at the same time increasing the availability of pensioners. I think that what is worth holding on to here is that there are a number of pensioners who deserve a greater amount of resources. It deserves both pensioners who are fully dependent on the public pension and pensioners who, in their working lives, have saved up for their own pension and have a small pension payment in which they are very, very much offset today. Because of the rules that have been historically observed, the profit of saving is limited, and therefore, together with the Danish People's Party, we have agreed that there will be a temporary increase in the set-off limit on private pension savings. In addition, I also believe that pensioners who, alongside being old-age pensioners, make an important contribution to the labour market must benefit more from it. They will also receive this with the change in the set-off rules that we are proposing, where labour income up to DKK 100,000. now not be set off in the benefits you get. I think this is a number of good examples of how we have combined more economy into welfare with more economy for the individual pensioner. I therefore welcome the fact that, while we have a good and strong welfare in the municipalities and regions, we have also created a framework in which the individual elderly get some more money in their hands in concrete terms. Whether you have a private savings or not, whether you do a job or not, there will be a better economy for the country's pensioners, both in 2019 and especially in the years to come, when they get the full regulation and no 0.3 per cent are deducted. to a bet pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153810	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153811	I understand that the Minister for Finance is spending most of his speaking time on the element of a higher amount of resources for pensioners. But the Minister for Finance also knows that I think it is good too. We also welcome this in the Social Democratic Party. Perhaps we would have liked to have looked a little more at how to make sure that it was the pensioners who have the least income that made the most of this. But we have not been in the engine room, and I shall not be able to say what kind of models have been on the table, and that is not what I am trying to discuss with the Minister for Finance. I think the Minister for Finance knows that too. No, after all, this is about the welfare savings, especially the savings on care for the elderly around, and I would like to say to the Minister, who says that this is something that needs to be addressed with local politicians: the Minister of Finance will have to have an opinion on what is going on in the municipalities when he is covering up that you can just do things better tomorrow than today. When I can then mention specific examples that show that the discussions that you have are about replacing a bath with wet wipes, about closing relief places, about having fewer employees in the nursing homes, are about cutting back on the activities of the residents of the nursing homes, so something that hits the very weakest elderly people, then the Minister of Finance himself must have an opinion as to whether that is right. And if the Minister of Finance himself now chose to use the expression that one needs to spend the money better tomorrow than today, then if he does not want to deal with how he himself would feel about experiencing this kind of deterioration on his own body, then the Minister for Finance must be able to answer whether it is within the dial of what is said in the finance minister's language that the municipalities will spend the money better tomorrow than today. Does it, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212153946	I understand from the debate here that social democracy no longer respects local self-government. I can easily pull out municipalities, which I think have done badly. I simply do not understand why the Municipality of Norddjurs has chosen to run their economy completely down by having the approach to the question of early retirement, which they had politically and which has meant that the economy of the Municipality of Norddjurs is completely to the rats. Forgive the expression, I do not know if it is parliamentary language. But I was gonna say that outside this floor. But there is municipal self-government, and the citizens of Norddjurs Municipality have chosen to give the mandate to the mayor in office again, and that must then be taken off in everyday life towards the next municipal elections. I think that a lot of wrong decisions have been made, for example in the municipality of Norddjurs, in that area, but it is not for me to be the chief judge of what they do in a single municipality, if at the same time we want to have municipal autonomy, and I want to have that. We may disagree on that. I actually thought that Social Democracy was also a party that hailed municipal autonomy. I may have been wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154052	A rat is not a swear word. It's the name of an animal species. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154056	After all, it was a finance minister who resigned from responsibility. In other words, it is the government that is responsible for what kind of framework the municipalities are making their decisions under, and with the financial law that we have now got, between 1.5 and 2 billion are missing. kr. to cover the demographic trait. If you look at the government's 2025 plan, we're gonna need 10,000 public employees. So can the Minister of Finance stand here and give up his responsibilities completely and say that you can then make some decisions that are completely to the rats? Of course, the government also has a responsibility for what kind of room it is that you can make these decisions in municipal, and if this is to be understood as meaning that it was the Finance Minister's nice way of saying that he personally does not hope to have to have his bath replaced with wet napkins, then I sign for it. However, otherwise, I do not think that the Minister for Finance was concerned with what I asked, namely the concrete examples of savings in the area of the elderly, and the fact that four out of ten municipalities in the Altinget survey of September expected savings in the area of the elderly. Is that what the Minister for Finance is referring to when he says that the municipalities can just spend the money better tomorrow than today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154201	No, I was referring to the fact that in Denmark, when we took over the government, 9.9 billion were spent. kr. on the reception of asylum seekers, accommodation and others, and that due to the policy pursued by the government since the change of government, next year it will be estimated at 5.7 billion. kr., that is more than 4 billion. kr. less. This means that within the same framework of the public economy, 4 billion will be released. kr. that can be used in other areas. Some of this we use in the neighbourhood to help refugees close to their countries, and others we use here in Denmark to strengthen core welfare. That is why Mrs Astrid Krag's calculation is based entirely on the fact that it is only a matter of assessing what growth is in total public consumption, but not of using the money in a different way, a miscalculation. What is at the heart is that you can use what you have in the public sector more effectively and much better, and this is done, among other things, by re-prioritising the business promotion system. We do this by slimming down and making Denmark's Radio more efficient, we do so by reducing the cost of refugees in Denmark significantly. All this helps to increase the room for manoeuvre in the municipalities to meet the challenges that exist, and that is why we have given the municipalities a framework that allows them, if they operate an efficient and good municipality, to cope with the pressure that comes from more elderly people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154322	And a clock is a mechanism that measures time and 30 seconds is the length of Question Time when you have used your first question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154330	Well, the Minister of Finance doesn't have to stand here and tell me that the calculation is wrong. Because it is the figures we have from the Minister's own ministry and the calculators that are over there that tell us what needs to be used to cover the demographic trait, that there are more elderly people. I shall then go back to my last 14 seconds and ask the Minister to elaborate on what he said in relation to the fact that the municipalities have spent more money in the area of the elderly and have even added to what they have got from pools. Can the Minister explain how much more money he thinks has been spent in the area of the elderly compared with the increasing number of elderly people in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154407	I do have a relatively well-developed memory, but not enough to be able to reproduce in detail on a stand-by basis what is. However, we can leave a note to the Committee on Finance or any other committee that might ask the formal question of how much the municipal budgets have been promised in the area of the elderly, in relation to what has been given by the promise of the current government and the previous Left Government. There you will see that, although the government has lifted its promise, the municipalities have in fact added to what they are spending on the number of elderly people. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that what is important here is not just what you spend more, but what you actually spend the money you already have. Therefore: If you can spend the money wiser and I think it's smarter that we spend some money on welfare than we spend it on Danish Radio, then it's a good way to create space to also handle the number of elderly who are increasing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154506	Thank you to the Minister for Finance and thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 6, and it is Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen from the Radical Left who has a question for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154518	Thank you. I will start by reading the question: will the Minister be involved in sending a shepherd's letter or in any other way making both the municipal authorities and our local politicians aware of the dialogue tool that KL has developed on the basis of the Bo Smith Committee's report on the official of the modern popular government?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154538	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that I agree that it is important that there is a good dialogue in the municipalities about how local politicians and the administration cooperate locally. So I would like to review the initiatives that have been in this area in recent years. Back in 2016, KL took an initiative to inspire municipalities to work on the relationship between politicians and officials in the light of the Bo Smith Committee's report. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior is responsible for the rules governing the administration of the municipalities, which is why I also see it as the role of the Ministry to help the municipalities know the rules and to guide them when needed. In fact, in that role, the Ministry has already done what the questioner asks, namely to bring the municipalities and local politicians to the attention of KL's inspirational catalogue from 2016. We have at the Ministry, among other things. On the basis of the report, attention was paid to the fact that the cooperation of the administration with the members of the municipal council may give rise to questions of major importance for the practical work in the municipalities. Therefore, in June 2017, the Ministry issued a general guidance opinion to all municipalities and to KL on the possibilities for the municipal administration to provide assistance to the members of the municipal council. The opinion also deals with the management of the municipal council and other municipal policy bodies. The statement also mentions KL's inspirational catalogue of 2016, to which reference is made in the question. In addition, the Ministry, in cooperation with KL in December 2017, has published the guide "The political work of the municipal council and committees', which was sent to all municipalities and is intended for the members of the municipal councils of the country. The guidance contains sections on the management of municipal policy bodies and on the management's assistance to members, and the guidance draws attention to both the Ministry's guidance statement from 2017 and the inspiration catalogue from 2016 and the 2015 report. In other words, we believe that we have contributed a great deal to promoting this. However, I would like to contribute further by sending this question and the transcript of our discussion today to KL, with a view to KL considering whether there is any reason to make the municipalities further aware of the catalogue of inspiration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154749	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154750	I am very pleased to hear that a large number of initiatives have been taken. What strikes me a little is that there have been new elections since many of these initiatives have been taken. I could understand that some have been taken just before the last municipal elections, and the question is if I understand correctly whether this dialogue tool has been sent out to the newly elected municipal councillors or whether it is to the former municipal councils. Because what is my experience when I talk to people is that some municipalities know about this dialogue tool, but there are also a lot of places where you don't. I've got one of them. in my very short time as a Member of this House during this period with colleagues who have also been elected municipal, and there are a lot of them who say: that sounds like a great tool, but I don't know about it, will you send it to me? So my question is whether it impresses the Minister that, after all, there is still little knowledge of such a good tool, which I understand the Minister also supports, which can be used to create good and trusting cooperation in our municipalities, because it contributes to and can form the basis for a dialogue between officials and politicians. So the question is actually: has it been sent out to the current members of the municipal council, and if not, will the Minister help to see how we can spread knowledge out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154920	Yes, in the sense that it was issued in December 2017, i.e. after the municipal elections, in order that the municipalities could give it to all those who were then elected from 1 January 2018. And I would like to help try to spread the knowledge, know, as I said before, that we are sending the transcript of this question-answer-sight between us to the National Association of Municipalities with a call to be aware of whether the members of the municipal council are also aware of the tools there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212154951	I think that sounds really good. Then I think I would just like to thank you for the discussion, and thank you for the Minister's support for hopefully further raising awareness of this dialogue tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155004	Thank you to Mrs Anne Marie Geisler Andersen. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior continues to question 7, which has been asked by Mr. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155016	I read the question: Will the Minister confirm whether his statements on the Wise Men's Report on TV 2 NEWS on Tuesday, 4 December 2018 should be interpreted in such a way that, in a situation where it has to slow down the economy, the government prefers to cut government spending rather than postpone tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155037	Now I think we should be a little careful to base the whole economic discussion on hypothetical situations about how the Danish economy can I think we should have a different starting point, and I would like to start by stating that we are not in a situation where we have to slow down, and that is not just my assessment. In fact, that is what the economic wise men said last week. You said that fiscal policy is appropriate. The fact is that we are in a fairly good recovery in reform. Presently, reforms increase labour supply year by year, and this has given strength to the recovery, so that there has been a solid foundation. Against this background, it must be clear to everyone that it is the path of reform that has made us have a more healthy recovery this time than we had, the last time we had a recovery. The Danish economy has entered a boom in which we have a record high level of employment. The progress of the labour market is also reflected in the fact that there have been no fewer people in the public sector since 1987, and last year we reached the highest level of private consumption per person. I'm a citizen of the world. It's going well in Denmark. That is the merit of the reforms. After all, it is so important that we make sure that we continue along that path so that we do not get into the hypothetical situation. I really think that is what we should be concentrating on in relation to that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155156	First of all, I am pleased to see that this is a hypothetical situation. We have also had the discussion a little earlier in this Chamber with the Minister for Finance. I share the analysis that there is no overheating around the corner. Now it was not I who mentioned that situation, but rather the Minister who addressed it in an interview, and it should not be a secret that the civil servants at present seem to be even extremely concerned about their work situation. That is why I just think it is important to make it clear that this is precisely a strictly hypothetical scenario. If we are to be more realistic, we have to say that if we are to look at the horizon and ask what could be the challenges for the Danish economy in the slightly shorter term, perhaps that is really what is happening in Britain today and in the coming days. This could be a challenge, and the Minister for Finance, I know, has other concerns too, that is, Italy with more. Perhaps that is more what we need to be prepared to resist if such situations arise than an overheating scenario. Nevertheless, I would just like to hear the Minister calmly: if one imagines the thought scenario, the hypothetical situation in which Denmark actually gets into an overheating, does the Minister imagine that it is the construction side of public consumption that will have to be adjusted, as public installations are something that can be adapted relatively easily? Or is it a question of whether more operational elements should be touched?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155349	Firstly, as I recall, it was TV 2's excellent business editor, Ole Krohn, who imagined the hypothetical situation and not myself. It's just right, so we have it in place, and I'm just dealing with the questions that I'm being asked, whether it's TV 2 NEWS or it's parliamentary members. If we first imagine the hypothetical situation, then obviously have an understanding that it is over in the public expenditure that we have to look at and what kind of public expenditure it is, then I think we are already far too far down different split roads, so to say where we have to take up more decisions, and different political developments have to take place. I think that what we need to do is to have a healthy economy, it must be reformed, we need to look more at labour supply and productivity development, and if we just do that, we are also able to withstand the pressures that could arise, either for one reason or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155450	The questioner? It is entirely voluntary to spend your time or to refrain from it. Thank you so much. I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior and thank Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8 and that is for the Minister of Health, and the questioner is Mrs Pernille Schnoor. And I can see both people, so we start with question 8.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155521	Thank you. I read out the question: Does the Minister think that it is justifiable to reduce the tax on beer and wine when Denmark is the country in Europe where the most young people drink their drink and we know that alcohol in youth creates the basis for a later alcohol abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155538	Thank you for the question. First of all, it is important for me to stress that we actually see a positive development when we talk about the consumption of alcohol by young people. The generation that is young today generally drink less and they also drink less compared to previous generations. I think that is important to make this clear at the outset in relation to the questioner's question. The proportion of young people aged 16-24 who exceed the Danish Health Authority's high risk limits for alcohol intake has fallen from 19.7%. in 2010 to 11.5%. in 2017. The development of the tax reductions on beer and wine included in the 2019 Finance Act will not change decisively, but there is also a balance in how we put our taxes and taxes in different respects. The Minister for Taxation has informed of the tax incentives that they include: It is expected that the Danes will trade small beer and wine and that the lower taxes will also make it more attractive for the Danes to buy their goods in Danish shops rather than, for example, to cross the border and buy them cheaper in Germany. I hope, the questioner and I agree that it is not the case that a Breezer, a beer or a bottle of wine bought in Germany is more healthy than the one bought in Denmark, but it can in fact mean a great deal, both for Danish industry and also for profits to the Treasury, that we also always ensure that we do not have Danish taxes at a level that helps to create increased border trade. The lower taxes can also mean, for example, that the Swedes place their money in Denmark instead of in Sweden, and in this way they can also be of benefit to the Danish business community. At the same time, the assessment is that the influence on Danes' alcohol consumption will be modest.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155733	Thank you. Although the overall consumption of alcohol by young people has decreased from 2010 to 2017, as mentioned by the Minister, Denmark continues to be the country in Europe where most young people drink alcohol within a month. We have 3,000 people dying annually for alcohol-related reasons, we have 122,000 children and young people growing up in families with alcohol problems, and over-consumption of alcohol is estimated to cost Danish society at least 13 billion. kr. a year. In Scotland, minimum prices have just been introduced, what was done earlier in England, and we should not, as responsible politicians, instead set a minimum price for alcohol, such as alcohol. has just introduced it into Scotland?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155822	No, this is not a view supported by the government. I can sort of cover myself under what I said before. There is no doubt that it is about making young people drink less, as we have a wish they do, and they actually change their behavior. Youth culture is changing, as I think we are beginning to see in the figures, so that there is a much greater awareness among this generation of young people that they drink less, they drink less than the youth generation before them. From the state side, we have focused on a wide range of prevention activities, which also focus on the alcohol consumption of young people, and this also applies at local level. The Danish Health Authority also carries out ongoing campaigns with the aim of focusing on alcohol and also the harmful effects of alcohol, and I also know that the Danish Health Authority, together with the high school rectors and the Danish high schools here earlier this year, also made a joint agreement in this area, because it is also about influencing youth culture when we talk about excessive alcohol consumption among young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155921	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212155921-2	Then I would like to know whether the Minister recognises that the price is a determining factor in how much children and young people drink, such as the United Kingdom. Andreas Rudkøbing, president of the Medical Association, has said. I am here with a study published in the British Medical Journal which shows that in England, after the minimum prices were made per year. the subject, that is to say, has had a huge effect on mortality and in relation to alcohol-related hospitalizations. In fact, it is a very, very large number that has been reduced by making minimum prices per person. item. Does the Minister recognise that the price plays an important role in the consumption of alcohol by children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160006	Yeah, but I don't think that's part of the discussion either, but what I can hear the alternative like focusing on is that it's the golden solution. I think we just have to say that we also have to look at this wider, both in relation to what it is for some cultural changes, and this applies to both alcohol as it is for smoking. I think it is important that we also see that there are more people who also take responsibility locally, and this applies to high schools, and this applies to vocational schools, which also come together to have policies, clear policies to ensure that, for example, we do not lose sight of this. I believe that this affects young people at least as much, i.e. where the popular party is, as having a clear attitude towards alcohol.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160055	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160056	Then I understand that the Minister recognises that the price is important in relation to how many children drink and how much they drink. In Scotland, where this has been introduced now, the 1,056 annual deaths have occurred, while in Denmark the Danish Health Authority estimates that it is 3,000 who die, and 23,700 fewer hospitalizations, this study shows if you make a minimum price per year. item. So I hope that the Minister will look at these studies and then decide whether what we have chosen to do now is so sensible, that is to say to do the opposite, so that we can actually make it cheaper and so that more children and young people can drink more.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160140	But then I understand that the alternative rapporteur did not agree with me that a beer or a Breezer or a bottle of wine bought in Germany is not healthier than that in Denmark, because when the government conducts the tax policy that we are conducting and for which the tax minister is responsible, it is all about more considerations, and that is what I was trying to say at the outset. And it is a question of ensuring that the money is put in Denmark and that there is not just an increase in border trade. The fact is that buying large quantities of homes that are in people's homes is not necessarily positive in terms of encouraging healthy consumption of alcohol, that is, if availability is too high, and that is why there has to be balance, and I hope that the rapporteur of the alternative also recognises this. This is at least the overall approach that we have from the government, where we have both prevention initiatives, but where we also pursue a tax policy that does not send money straight out of the country, but at the same time ensures that people still have access to excessive amounts of alcohol when we talk about young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160233	Thank you to the Minister for Health and to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9, and it is also to the Minister for Health, and the questioner is Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160246	Thank you very much. I read the question: Does the Minister find that due care is involved when the plastic and breast surgery department at Aarhus University Hospital has postponed about 100 operations of non-acoustic patients up to 3 years and when many of these operations are now to be carried out in private hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160305	Thank you for the question. Aarhus University Hospital has over the past two years been gathering operations from four matricles to a cadastral in Skejby. It is a large and comprehensive process which also means that the hospital has not been able to keep full pace in operation for a period of time. This is, of course, something that the Central Jutland Region has known in advance and that it has also had to plan its way out of. And as the press history that has given rise to this question shows, but also a number of press stories in recent times, there have been major problems both with equipment and staff, which has also led to a number of cancelled operations at Aarhus University Hospital. Some of them have to do with the problems that have been at Sterilcentralen and that have also received close coverage in the media over the past few weeks. But basically, it is a question of whether the region has taken sufficient account of the challenges that may arise in connection with a move. Of course, it is clear that not everything can be foreseen, but frankly I think it is unacceptable that patients who have already waited a long time for an operation should now have their planned operations postponed until the autumn of 2021 and that the problems we have seen in connection with the university hospital have not been dealt with much earlier and have been taken in the run-up, but that they have had such major consequences for patients. So, basically, I do not think that this is due diligence, and I also have a clear expectation, as the Minister for Health, that the region and the hospital are taking proper care of patients who are experiencing cancellations, because it is also important that patients are then both informed about what their rights as patients are in terms of ensuring rapid surgery and treatment elsewhere, that they are taken in the hands of the region, and that they are then offered treatment in Randers, Horsens or Viborg, or if it is not possible in the region's own hospitals, then in private terms, it does not affect the patients who, as we can see from the article to which the questioner refers, have already waited a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160513	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160514	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the Minister also sees that this is not due diligence. I believe that when you know as a region that you have to build something new and have to put some departments together somewhere, you can expect that there will be a decline in some of the operations that had been planned. Some of these women have been waiting for 8-10 months for an operation after a long process where they have been affected by cancer and had a breast removed and now need to get their lives restored. Some of them were supposed to have operated here in January, but then received a letter from the region stating that they had a new time in 2021. How will the Minister ensure that these women are well taken care of, that they get another offer, that there are agreements on the part of the region with private hospitals that can take over here? We know that it is only the private hospitals with which the region has made an agreement that you can apply for surgery, but what about the other private hospitals with which you may not have an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160623	Well, I have said this before, and I would like to repeat it: I have a clear expectation that the Central Jutland Region, also at the highest political level, will take responsibility for the situation and also take care of the patients who have come into the situation that they cannot have the operation that they were looking forward to, or perhaps for some people feared, but at least had in the calendar. This also means that care must be taken to inform them properly. I do not think it is okay to just send a letter stating that the operation has been postponed until 2021, as we have seen examples of. I have a clear expectation that the Central Denmark Region will take care of patients and make sure that they move on well, and if you do not have the capacity of the region's own hospitals, you will have to ensure that agreements are made to ensure that you have sufficient capacity in the situation you are now facing, where you have a decrease in capacity in connection with the transfer to Aarhus University Hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160714	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160715	The Minister himself said that there were also problems with Sterilcentralen, where we now have to postpone a lot of operations, which were otherwise planned, because calculations had not been made on how it was ensured that staff were provided enough, or because some people quit because they moved. Well, many of these things could have been prevented if you had planned it better. How should we learn from this in the other regions, and would the Minister not just expect it to happen and how?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160745-2	After all, it is the regions that run our health services and, as I said at the outset, I do not think that the handling of the matter has been a timely exercise. When you can find yourself in a situation where you lack 16 staff at a sterile centre, and you simply have to shut down operating rooms because you cannot make sure that there is equipment that becomes clear, then I have a clear expectation that you will not just learn from the situation, but that you will also ensure that such problems do not grow as big as they have in this case. Because I guess you don't go from everything running to 16 employees. That is why it is a management task both on the part of the hospital and on the part of the region to ensure that such situations do not arise. And I have a hope that the other regions, which also have to start moving in in some places, have learned from the cases that have now been covered in the media at Aarhus University Hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160837	Last round for the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160839	I think the most important thing in this question is that the citizens of Denmark are safe, and it doesn't seem to be. I would be uncomfortable with the region that should start moving if we had the same problems, and I just think: is this not just the basis for us to have those regions closed down?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160857	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160858	I fully agree with the questioner that there is a need for a major health reform, which sets the direction for the development of our healthcare systems in the years to come, where we also focus on ensuring that patients' rights are safeguarded throughout the country and where we address the excessive regional differences that exist today, ensure more proximity and ensure more coherence for patients, but hopefully also a health service where we are better able to learn from each other's experiences, so that the mistake that happens in one place does not happen elsewhere, but that we learn from it and show due care.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160932	Thank you both to the Minister and to the questioner. Let's move on. The next question is for the Minister of Education, and that is Mr. Rasmus Prehn, now taking the podium.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212160946	Thank you very much, President. Does the Minister believe that there is a need for measures to prevent primary school pupils from arranging fights that have been experienced twice at Sindal School in Hjørring Municipality, cf. the article "Wold in the recess: Students in organised fights at Sindal School " on TV2 Nord on 28 November 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161003	Thank you. When you hear about a case like that from Sindal School, you should not think twice to see that something is quite wrong. When students organize fights, it is an expression of a culture among young people that we cannot accept in any way, either in school or outside the school. Violence and threats are not languages, we speak at school, they must be dealt with, and they must be stopped. That is why it is also necessary to send a clear signal from the school to pupils and parents that this kind of behaviour is completely unacceptable. It is the case today that the school board lays down the school's rules of conduct and rules of value. I think this is a sound principle because it requires the involvement of parents. I cannot imagine that it would anywhere be within the framework of the individual school's rules and values to organise fights, either in school or outside the school. If a student does not comply with the school's rules of conduct, values or standards of good conduct, the school must have a conversation with the individual student and his or her parents. If that is not enough, the announcement of the promotion of good order in the head of the primary school allows for different measures to be taken against the pupil. It can, for example, be done. be in the form of detention or exclusion from teaching, and in some cases it may also be necessary for a student to be transferred to another class, another school or another educational offer. The schools therefore already have a number of options which they can seize when a student shows unacceptable behaviour, and they need to use them. The school must be a place where there is quiet, security, trust and focus on the professional, and this presupposes that the school lays down clear rules and frameworks, and that a clear signal is sent that some types of behaviour simply do not belong, either in school or outside the school. It is good pedagogy, and it is something that we can be better at in Denmark, both at school and at home with the parents, who are the primary responsible for the upbringing of the students. Issues of violence between students are very close to my heart. Therefore, in the autumn of 2017, I took the initiative for an effort to stem the violence in schools. In February 2018, the Ministry of Education published a guide on the prevention and management of violence and threats at school, which was sent around to all the schools in the country, and most recently I impressed on all the school leaders at the School Leader Association's annual meeting in Odense on 1 November that it is the responsibility of the school management to ensure that the problem is addressed in schools. The government also proposed to set aside 30 million. kr. in the rate pool to prevent violence and threats in primary school, but there could be no support for this. The Ministry of Education has already prepared a study focusing on violence and threats against teachers and educators, which was published in May 2018. I will now see to it that a study is also being launched on violence between pupils, which will help us to learn how to put an end to violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161247	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161249	Thank you very much to the Minister for this long answer. I am delighted to hear the Minister say that the Minister is very keen to fight violence. However, it was, I think, a somewhat mechanical reading of a number of different things that will be done in this area. And there was also, as I heard, a lot of focus on punishment and reprisals, if it is one gets involved in doing something that is wrong. It may be a good thing that there are clear guidelines and that young people know what is right and what is wrong and, as the Minister said, we should have calm, confidence and security at school, no doubt about that. What one might miss in this context is that perhaps the Minister and the government are more offensively embarking on this campaign to combat violence at school. After all, it is an increasing trend where young people organize fights and where they film it for social media and so escalate. There we would like to see initiatives, as we have seen in the past, such as: Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! It could be imagined that the police could also send out some of these prevention officers to talk to the students and so on. I'm not sure that's always what's gonna solve this. I think that we need young people to take on a culture that is non-violent and where violence and filming and putting it on social media become an unacceptable culture instead of something that is a little hot and exciting, as is unfortunately the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161447	Well, I'll be sorry if mr. Rasmus Prehn thought my reading was mechanical. Nevertheless, this is something I have said repeatedly over the last two years and with which I have worked completely systematically. On the other hand, I have not heard anything about the social democracy in this area for two years, and we have been in pool negotiations where the 30 million. kr. I think it would be a good idea if we were to have a debate on this subject because there were other things that were more important than that. So I don't recognize that at all. We work very, very systematically with this. It is the teachers who must stop the violence when it takes place in the schoolyard or in the classes for that matter. It is the heads of schools who must support the teachers, and it is the administration that must back the heads of schools. There is a very clear line there and we want to support them in that work. We have been put back a little, of course, because they negotiated out that effort group, but we are scratching, and we think this is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161546	Now it is a well-known fact that there are enormously many really important and exciting priorities when you are making wage-pool negotiations, and it cannot be the individual initiative that it stands and falls on. It is also about the government's speaking to young people, which direction, what kind of culture you want, and I think you have been missing that lately. There's not much indictment on the part of the government of the fight against this trend. I think it seems very silent and very backward in relation to this. And what you have to offer is only punishment and guidelines and not as much this cultural campaign as I think there is an enormous need for. Remember the "Stop Violence" campaign years ago, which really worked in relation to the young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161634	Well, it's very strange to hear this sudden interest in this area that the government has been dealing with systematically for two years. We have heard nothing from the Social Democratic Party on the contrary, this has been negotiated out of a very large pool of rates. This is also very much a social effort, because violence creates social problems. So if you're so concerned about it, it's strange that you negotiate it out of the bet pool and then stand here and talk about how my reading doesn't seem committed enough. I've been working on this systematically for two years, and I will, as long as I'm a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161715	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161716	But I am only glad that the Minister has worked with it, and it is not to talk down the Minister's efforts nor do we get anything out of it. I acknowledge that the Minister is doing something and is passionate about this area. It's positive enough. What is my business here is to focus on the specific problem here and try further to encourage the Minister to continue with the indictment of a non-violent culture. It is so important that our children know that we should not have violence in focus, that we should not have violent behaviour, and that we should not record it at all and share it on social media to create excitement, etc. What this is all about is that we have to look out for each other and that we have to be good comrades with each other. And I would like the government to focus more on that too. Then I will try to pick up that glove for myself and for my party, because we can all do better than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161806	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161807	That would be helpful. I can't wait for you to join the game, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161814	Thank you to the questioner. We're gonna keep the minister on the field, and we're gonna make room on the podium for mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161821	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161825	Thank you, President. What is the Minister's position on the many incidents of violence caused by children against children in schools, and what does the Minister intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212161846	Thank you very much. My position on violence and threats at school is quite clear: in no way can we accept the culture of violence and threats at school. I am very concerned about the issue of violence between pupils. As I also mentioned last week in this Chamber when we discussed violence between pupils, in the autumn of 2017, I took the initiative for an effort to stem violence in schools. In February 2018, we published a guide on the prevention and management of violence and threats at school, which was sent around to all schools in the country. Most recently, I made clear to all the school leaders of the country at the School Leader Association annual meeting on 1 November that it is the responsibility of the management to ensure that the problem is addressed in schools. Teachers and educators must have the necessary skills in relation to children with special needs, and the school must have a readiness to support such situations. If there is concern that a student's inappropriate behaviour is due to social or emotional difficulties, then the head of the school must involve the PPR in order to assess whether special education is needed or involve the social authorities. But we lack studies and knowledge of violence between students. In the national survey, students are asked how often they feel safe at school and how often they are bullied, but the measurement does not say anything about violence and threats in schools. In May 2018, we published a study on violence against teachers and educators, including: examine the relationship between violence and the socio-economic composition of pupils. The study shows that there are several episodes of physical violence in schools with low socio-economic backgrounds, but the context is not significant. It has not been part of the study to see if there is a connection to the ethnicity of the students. I think it is necessary and important that we work much more systematically on this issue forward-looking. Some schools are more vulnerable than others. It is particularly in these schools that action is to be taken. I would therefore like to launch a study on violence between pupils, which will look at the extent of violence, which student groups are involved and how we can prevent and eradicate violence. It is the head of the school's responsibility to ensure a safe school environment, and if the head of the school can't handle it, the municipality must step in. Schools already have a number of opportunities which they can seize when a student shows unacceptable behaviour, and they must make use of them. The school management has the opportunity to take pupils out of the class and out of school, and of course some courses must be started for those pupils, but it is extremely important that they do not accept the violence. It is the school board which lays down the school's rules of conduct and rules of value, and I think this is a sound principle because it requires the involvement of parents. If that is not enough, the announcement of the promotion of good order in the head of the primary school allows for different measures to be taken against the pupil. It can, for example, be done. be in the form of detention or exclusion from teaching, and in some cases a student may be transferred to another class, school or other educational provision. It is good pedagogy, and it is something that we can be better at in Denmark, both at school and at home with the parents, who have the primary responsibility for the education of the pupils. There is no point in the fact that education in schools is not clear and without consequence, so we accept everyday life with violence and threats. It must also help to send a signal to parents that this kind of behaviour is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162201	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162202	Thank you to the Minister for a rather positive reply. As I understand the Minister, she's gonna start an investigation, so we're gonna get a little smarter. This means that we are going to know the cultural background; we are going to see which schools this violence is acting on; and we will then be able to have a presumption of whether there is a certain ethnicity that occurs more frequently than others. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162233	The survey design is not yet planned. We have in Denmark the Danish Centre for the Education Environment, and I imagine that it is obvious that they take on the task, as violence must be said to be the worst case scenario for an educational environment. So I hope they'll catch this ball. But the study design itself hasn't been made yet. When it comes to violence against teachers, we know something about which schools have particularly many incidents of violence, and I imagine that we need to have a much better picture of how many schools are in red, so to speak, so how many schools are seriously affected by violence in everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162316	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162317	The reason I ask so specifically is that there is a lot of experience not only in Denmark, but indeed also in France, in Germany, where there are large groups from the Middle East, which thus cause huge problems in schools with violence against other children and violence against teachers. It could of course be imagined that this was also the case in Denmark. So would it not be clever for us to have an overview of this in Denmark as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162345	As I just said, the study design itself has not been defined. We know about violence against teachers, which schools are involved, and that is what is essential for me to say. The vast majority of primary schools in Denmark are safe places to be for children, and we must stick to that, but there are some schools that are particularly violent and where violence becomes part of everyday life and part of culture. There may be many different reasons for this; cultural clashes may well be part of that scenario, and that is one of the things we need to learn more about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162417	Then it's the last round to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162419	That was a cautious, positive response, and I recognise that as a minister we also need to be a little cautious. The last question is about the order order. Does the Minister intend to tighten it up so that we can take more care of the children who are currently causing trouble or harassing violence? It's very hard to get those kids to change school. You can only do that if another school is willing to accept them. So will the Minister tighten that announcement?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162454	It is very important for me to stress that when there is a child who is very violent and here we are not talking about ordinary puffs and pushes in the schoolyard and is threatening to a degree, so that it goes beyond the class community, we must make sure that that child gets away from the class community, because one has a consideration to take, of course, to the child who must continue to have a good education, but also to the class community. That is why, if there is a problem with such insecurity, heads of schools must also take care to resolve it, and it may be by moving the child out of school. They can do that today. It is not certain that it is practice everywhere, but it is an opportunity that the head of the school has today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162534	We are therefore grateful to the honourable Member and we thank the Minister. We'll send a new questioner up on the podium and also a new minister. It's for the church minister, and it's by Mrs. Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162547	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162550	My question is this: can the Minister explain why there is a difference between the rules on access to official duties in the church on Christmas Eve for engravers and church servants?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162605	At least I can try it. It is the case that today, according to their agreement, diggers and church servants, among other things. are entitled to a weekly fixed day off, and the fixed day off may then be moved to another day of the week during the weeks when the holiday coincides with a public holiday if the church official has official duties on the public holiday. On December 24th is not a public holiday, and if the first holiday in a given year coincides with December 24th, it is therefore not possible to move the day off. Precisely because on 24 December is so important a day for the church with many services and possibly other ecclesiastical acts, the negotiating organization for the graves, the Federation of church and cemetery workers, in 2012 has chosen to conclude an additional agreement with the Ministry of Churches, after which the possibility of moving the fixed day of rest also applies for 24 December, and that agreement has subsequently become part of the organization agreement, that is, the agreement, as regards the collective engravers. Similarly, almost all the other trade union organizations which have similar rules in their agreements have concluded agreements with the Ministry of Churches. As the only organization, the Danish Church Service Association did not wish to enter into such an agreement with the Ministry of Churches on the collective church servants, and thus a difference has arisen between the rules on working hours for church servants and the majority of other groups of church officials.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162746	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162748	Thank you. I am not, in fact, surprised by the answer, because it is true of the reality of the people's church, which is well known. But now it is a few years ago that Christmas Eve last fell on a Monday, and it does so again this year, and then a certain number of years pass before it falls on a Monday again. It is true, as the minister says, that it was in 2012 that Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve fell on a Monday, and then you end up in that dilemma with some diggers and with all church servants, and then it is the diggers who give themselves and like gets done something in their agreement, whereas the church servants chose to conduct an arbitration case against the Church Ministry. It was so decided in March 2014, when they were successful that they could not lose their fixed day off. So it is that my question now is: how do you come to reason on this matter for one of the most important professional groups, which everything else should be prepared for Christmas not to surprise anyone, or even when it falls on a Monday? How do we secure some model in which the various congregational councils can conscientiously ask the church servant to go to work on a Monday, even though it is usually a fixed day off? Even if you drive an annual wheel, there may be an exception. Is There Hope Ahead?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162913	In the Ministry of Churches we are always ready to talk to those who want to talk to us. Now it can be said that Christmas Eve then falls on a Monday this year, and then it will be a few years before another Monday comes, which Christmas Eve can fall on. So it has to be said that there is time to change these conditions if anyone wants to. This must depend on a debate, and I would just like to say that it is not the case that the Ministry of Churches refuses in advance to speak to any professional groups who should have a wish to speak with the Ministry of Churches.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162945	Thank you, that is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212162946	Well, I would like to thank the Minister for the optimism and openness he has shown. Let's hope it lasts forever. There is a choice ahead, and then you can never know who is the church minister after that. But it is illogical, that is, that it is the church servants who are responsible for a great many ecclesiastical acts. I also hear from some church councils that this is actually a little problematic. In practice, it is usually solved. I think there are a lot of church servants at work on Christmas Eve. But it could be good if they were also at work in accordance with their agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163021	That is absolutely correct, and it is the case that in a country with freedom of organisation that we have in Denmark there are many different organisations. Even within a small area such as the church there are many organisations that are involved and in work. It can, of course, sometimes be that something you think should be completely comparable, 1:1, falls out differently, because it is different organisations that are above the negotiating table. However, we are ready to talk to whoever wants to, and then we will have to see what happens, because this is, of course, a matter of negotiation. As a politician, you can never predict the outcome of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163058	Thank you. One more question?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163100	Thank you. I hear the Minister say that we are prepared to negotiate with those who are willing to do so. It could also be the other way around, i.e. that it was the Church Ministry that invited for negotiation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163112	It is the case that we have a church of the people and not a church of the state, and that is why in a church ministry one must be very reluctant to be activeist. So I think we have to say in this case that it is probably not the Church Ministry that is taking an initiative. But if others take an initiative, we're ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163129	With that, we say thank you to the church minister and we thank the questioner. The next minister to be on the field is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. The question is from Mr. Peter Kofod, Dansk Folkeparti, who is now allowed to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163147	Thank you for that, President. What is the Minister's view that the Vejen Municipality has lost an expropriation case in the Supreme Court against a citizen who subsequently initiates a new expropriation case in which another paragraph is applied and considers it reasonable that public authorities losing legal proceedings against citizens should generally have the opportunity to try the case again, particularly in view of the fact that there may be major differences in the financial possibilities available to citizens and the authorities for bringing a case?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163216	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163217	The Supreme Court has decided on 10 September 2018 that the electrification law did not provide for the possibility of carrying out expropriations to meet the wishes of Vejen Municipality for the establishment of Skovgårdsvej. I have great respect for private property and I can inform you that Banedanmark and the pilot in question have complied with the Supreme Court's judgment. Banedanmark has returned the land and the pilot has repaid the expropriation compensation. The question of Vejen Municipality's further action in the matter is a municipal matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163258	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163259	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This is a difficult question to ask, because there are both elements to this question that could be put to the Minister of Transport's colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and there are also elements of the question that could have been put to the Minister for Justice. But one has then found out that it is the Minister of Transport who is the most obvious to ask in this case a case which I would dare to call quite grotesque. I mean, you're dealing with a citizen who thinks that the municipality and Banedanmark are doing something they can't and leads a case all the way to the Supreme Court where the citizen gets right. And then there is a situation now where there is a citizen who has a piece of land where there is a way across. So he can't use this land, and then the municipality says, "We don't care about that." We just used a wrong paragraph, that's too bad. Let's start it all over again. We'll draw a new paragraph, and then it can run again. I think that is simply unworthy of the way in which our authorities should treat our citizens. That is why I think there are two issues in this matter as I see it. One is how to solve such a case that is here. What's going to happen? Should the road be removed, or will one accept that it just roars away, where the municipality will then run a new case? That's one lead. I do not know whether the Minister can comment on that. After all, the Minister is still away from Banedanmark, who also has some responsibility in this matter. That's one part. The second part is the more fundamental part of what we can actually allow the authorities to do in relation to citizens who get right in our system. How many chances do the authorities have to have to get right in our legal system? Because everything else is just a very big difference between being Mr. and Mrs Jensen and think that one is right and then to be an authority which, in such a way, has enough money and opportunities. We have the DA and all sorts of things. So there is a question here about how we protect citizens' legal certainty. I would like the Minister to mention that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163507	I don't think the case is grotesque, as Mr. Peter Kofod says. The case has been unfortunate. First of all, however, it must be noted that, if the municipality wishes to establish a new road, it is free to initiate an expropriation procedure. What just happens here is that Banedanmark performs electrification, and in connection with electrification you have to raise some bridges. In this context, the municipality is then offered the possibility of including the electrification with the construction of a new road that the municipality wants, and this is done in accordance with the electrification law. There is then a disagreement as to whether the electrification law could have been applied to it. First, the expropriation commission decides it can. Then the city court says it can't. Then the High Court says it can do it. Then the Supreme Court, with votes three to two, says it can't. And that's where the case is now. However, the starting point is still that if the Road Act had been used from the outset, as the municipality will now do, there would have been no problem whatsoever with the expropriation. The alternative to what the municipality is doing now is, of course, the question of Mr. Peter Kofod wants the new road to be torn up with the loss of the millions spent by the taxpayers in the municipality of Vejen to build the road. I guess that's not it, sir. Peter Kofod wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163638	Yeah, well, it's awful when the authorities are clumsy about it and you don't know what you're dealing with. I would just like to say to the Minister in the first place that it is not unusual for different decisions to be reached in different courts. It is not unusual for the Supreme Court judges to vote differently. There's nothing weird about that. What makes this case weird and I used the word grotesque, and I understand that there is therefore a citizen who has had his property violated here. There is a way on his earth, a way that some others have laid there, and which he has the word of the Supreme Court for not to lie there. I think it's crazy that you say, "We'll try again, we'll just take another shot in the gay. After all, the Minister can spare me the explanation of the course of the matter, because I know that very well. But the thing is what you do now. Does the Minister of Transport have any idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163737	There you go, sir. Peter Kofod then excuse me, but in the presentation of the matter, as Mr. Peter Kofod came along, it appeared as if the case was more black and white than it really is. That's why I felt the need to tell you what the case really is. The fact is that if the municipality does not now embark on the Road Act as a starting point for initiating an expropriation case, with which the municipality could have carried out the expropriation from the outset and without difficulty, then the only alternative is that the millions who have been spent building the road have been wasted, because we now have to tear the road up again and find another solution to make the best possible transport on the road network of the municipality of Vejen. I just can't believe that, sir. Peter Kofod and Dansk Folkeparti seem to be the alternative at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163828	Well, as it is now, there are only losers in this case. There is no doubt about that. There is the municipality, on the one hand, which has a new road that lies on another's land, and on the other hand there is a citizen who has a road lying on his land that lies there illegally. So there's only losers in this case. The question then is: how are we going to set up our system so that this does not happen? Now it's done. And then the question is basically, as I see it, whether you are on the side of that citizen in relation to private property or whether you are on the side of the authorities and say: then that way just has to lie there. In other words, it is indirectly accepted that the authorities make mistakes. After all, the authorities are put in place by the Supreme Court, but the result is that it does not apply because that road is still there. I would really like the Minister to consider whether this is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212163921	Well then, I have to say again: if the municipality had used the Road Act from the outset, there would probably not be a single mandate in this Parliament, nor would Mr. Peter Kofod, who would think that was unreasonable, because we all generally accept that a municipality can use the Road Act to build new roads using the expropriation instrument. That is why the question that has to be answered by Mr. Peter Kofod: If the municipality is not now to use the Road Code to expropriate the road, as one could have done from the outset without any problems at all, Mr. Peter Kofod saw that the municipality must tear up the road so that the millions that the citizens of Vejen Municipality have spent building the road must be wasted?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164003	That question is not answered here, because the series of questions has been exhausted, and it is also the Minister who answers, and not the questioner, but we go further. The next minister is the Minister for the Environment and Food, and the question is from Mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164019	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164021	Thank you for that, and the question is this: does the Minister agree with the tax relief committee in this assessment: "The abolition of the tax is estimated to result in more phosphorus being emitted from agriculture than from the tax, and will this lead to an increase in the phosphorus surplus, especially in the animal-rich areas?'
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164050	Thank you for the question. I agree that, in isolation, this can increase the phosphorus surplus in the very short run. However, I also believe that the removal of the tax should not be seen in isolation. Abolition of the tax on mineral feed phosphate should be seen in the context of the adoption of the Farming Act in 2017, which for the first time laid down general requirements for the application of phosphorus by agriculture as a result of phosphorus ceilings. The purpose of the charge is to increase the use of phytase, which increases the availability of the existing phosphorus content, rather than to add mineral feed phosphate. However, the new phosphorus requirements provide a new strong incentive to increase the use of the enzyme phytase. A documented effective feeding including: The use of phytase is in fact part of the phosphorous regulation, since the farmer can apply more manure per year. hectares within the phosphorus ceiling if the phosphorus content of the fertiliser is reduced by the use of the abovementioned phytase. In relation to the removal of the tax, I have to say that in the context of the financial legislation negotiations there has been a desire to remove the tax already now, and we have responded to that because there are no direct directive problems with it and the new regulation is in the process of being taken over. The environmental challenge in the long term is to reduce the surplus of phosphorus to an environmentally acceptable level, and we are already doing so. Enhancements have been made in 2018, tightening up has been agreed in both 2019 and 2020, and new phosphorous ceilings have to be set in 2022 within an overall framework. In 2022 it will therefore be possible to take full account of the removal of the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164241	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164243	Thank you. I thought it was the livestock law that was supposed to be defended in this case, but I think it's a little interesting about this tax. Because at the time when it was introduced I think it was also a Leftman who introduced it, Mr. Svend Erik Hovmand was thought to be able to halve the phosphorus consumption by introducing the levy. Now the Committee for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions of the current Minister for Taxation has said that abolishing it could lead to an increase in phosphorus pollution, especially in those areas where there are many animals, that is to say, a high level of animal husbandry. And now the Minister is standing there, as I remember, in another context saying that you should put the environment before relaxations to agriculture so here today and probably argue that it can hardly be traced out there. Can the Minister understand if there is any wonder in the population that one says that one is putting the environment first but at the same time abolishing a phosphorus tax when the government, and now the minister here today, recognizes that it will increase the phosphorus load on our soils?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164357	It's kind of based on that awkward zero-sum prelude that one excludes the other. I am the Minister for the Environment and Food, in that order, but I am both, and I must take both into account. It is true that the reduction we are talking about here takes account of the industry in the first place, and that is why I am trying to explain why environmental considerations are also taken into account by the other initiatives we have taken in this area. But I am so sorry about that black-and-white or brown-green view, which always comes to the surface when we talk about the environment and food. That is two things, and we must take care of both things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164442	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164443	Yeah, but it's not a distinction that's invented for the occasion. It is the Minister himself and the Prime Minister who have stressed that the government should be green, that the minister should be green and that has talked about the new green minister. And then a phosphorus tax is abolished, so today it is recognised that phosphorus will increase. We can just take note of that, that's fair enough. I just needed confirmation today. The Minister then says that it was a wish that entered into the financial law negotiations. I assume, then, that it is not the Government's own wish that the tax should be abolished, and I would ask the Minister to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164521-2	But I think that the questioner should also take a little notice of my answer, because it is true that I reply directly, which I try to do so so often, it is possible for me to do so and put me briefly, and that is rare. I am endeavouring to reply very directly to the question, but I am also suggesting a little more in my answer, namely that there is more to the question than just that, so please also take note of the rest of my answer. But it is true that the questioner can see what kind of financial law the government was setting up. Then there has been a recording along the way, and we are, of course, listening to that, as the good collaborators we are, also in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164605	Then it's the questioner for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164607	Thank you. Well, then it doesn't take much mathematics to figure out where the proposal came from. When such a proposal is put on the table in the financial law negotiations, it sometimes happens that the negotiations are under way and there is less time for the proposal to be dealt with than would normally be. The government's reorganisation committee says it will increase the phosphorus load. The Minister says today that it complies with the directive's obligations. Has the government ensured with the EU that the abolition of the tax continues to comply with the obligations of the directive in the context of the draft budget negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164650	We are fulfilling the obligations of the directive, including with regard to this proposal, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164701	In doing so, we thank the Minister and we thank the honourable Member. We are going to the last question today, and it is to the Minister for Education and Research by Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164711	Mrs Mette Reissmann of the Social Democratic Party now has the floor to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164714	Thank you. I read the question: Is the Minister satisfied with the low level of entry to the government's training stations and does the Minister recognise that if we are to ensure good opportunities to train throughout the country, there is a need to stop the government's annual savings on education, which, for example, means huge savings at professional colleges, which reduces their opportunities to make good educational provision throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164739	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164740	Thank you for the question. It is an important priority for the government and for me, as Minister for Education and Research, that there is access to good higher education throughout the country. Therefore, as part of the new higher education grant system, the government has also agreed with all parties of the Folketing that education outside the main campus and outside the major cities should receive a basic grant of 2 million. kr. Therefore, the government has established the possibility of training stations. The scheme is still new; however, 15 stations have already been approved and more are on the way. In January the government gave a total of 160 million. kr. 10 new training stations. It was an extraordinary backlash that shows that the government is taking on the task. We're not gonna leave it at the talking. The goal is a better balance for Denmark. Apart from the station in Viborg, this summer it was the first time that the young people had the opportunity to apply for admission to a training station. The training stations have had a short time to provide information on the new tenders, but they have done a good job. Already that means, for example. 110 new teacher students in Holstebro, Randers, Fredericia and Helsingør. I welcome that. Of course, as far as the financial framework is concerned, they also play a role in good education. That is why the government has now set an expiry date so that from 2022 onwards we do not take the money out of the higher education area. The money will be returned to the area by 1:1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164907	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212164908	During the first reading of the Finance Act, the Finance Minister said that one of the government's major priorities was precisely education. And it is just a mystery to me how the government can think of this and at the same time maintain the savings in terms of the 2% re-priority contribution. Every year, the Social Democratic Party considers to be married to higher education. Furthermore, I simply do not understand the motivation of the government to set up ten small training stations in the local areas very far away from the city, from a specific environment where students want to be. Firstly, the government's aim was to set up 500 to 1 000 study places. There are 130 students who have applied. In Svendborg there are 3. This is not enough to create a sustainable study environment. So the chain completely jumps off to the government's ambition in this case, because you save and cut to the bone, while at the same time you have the situation at the moment that the students are actually opting out of precisely these training stations. So it does not make sense financially, nor is it a matter of prioritising education. Actually, it's just weakening the entire education system. And we are talking about our core welfare education. So I would like to hear: how will the Minister ensure that the quality of which I know the Minister is also concerned and which the Social Democratic Party in particular is concerned about does not get worse at the small training stations than it is at the educational establishments that we have in the large cities? I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165046	Thank you for the question. Well, we fully agree that we need to spend money on education in order to succeed in creating a good foundation for Denmark's future. And so do we; we are historically high on how much money we spend on it. And that is why we have also said that we also need to look at whether there is an opportunity to make it more efficient. We've told you there is. We had to say the same thing. And then we have also said now that by the end of 2021 it will stop. Because it can't go on. In relation to these new training stations, I would say that what we hope will happen is that we reach the goal. Now we're trying to start it. We cannot force anyone to seek this, and the assumption was that it would take a few years. That's why this goal was to reach up to 500-1,000 students at these 10 training stations. Now we started here in 2018, and when we looked at the admission in September, there were just over 200 students. So we're on it. We have also said that we need to evaluate this at the end of 2021 so that we can see how it has worked. For, like the questioner, I am very, very concerned that we are doing good education. But I'm also concerned that we have education all around the country. Because we just know that if we move people far away from a local area so that they can read in one of the major cities, sometimes it happens that they don't come back, and then we drain it out there. That's why we're doing this. But we only do it in education and in places where we are convinced that it can be defended professionally. And that's why we go out and analyze it again afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165213	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165214	Well, I just want to say to the Minister that right now we are saving almost 72 million. kr. at Copenhagen University College. And the reality of social democracy is based on the fact that young people migrate from country to city on a large scale. However, with the government's 2-percent savings, one is well on the way to starving one of the largest educational establishments we have. In 2022 we will come up to an amount called 167 million. kr., which Copenhagen University College alone has to save. In other words, there is a deterioration in quality at this point, because the government has decided to run a kind of barbecue strategy, opening up an educational establishment or station on almost every corner of the street, a place where there is absolutely no evidence whatsoever of having to set it up, both at the risk of having a quality decline, while at the same time there is simply no basis for young people to go there. So where is the sustainability of the relocation that the government is actually leading right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165320	Well sustainability is there that we believe that good education is something we should have throughout Denmark, and we think we can do both and. We believe that savings can be found in some of the major training programmes. And I have full confidence that management, for example. also the management at Copenhagen University College, works very constructively with this, as they have done in the last 3 years, and they will continue to do so for the next 3 years, when this re-priority contribution runs. At the same time, however, we know that it is difficult to make the economy work together when it comes to doing an education in a place that is not in a big city. That is why we have said that we want to give them a backlash so that we are behind our words to believe that education, including professionally, can be offered elsewhere. That's what we're trying to do with this scheme and with this extra subsidy, and we don't think that in itself helps drain the educations in the big cities. It's an extra offer out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165412	Then it's the questioner for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165414	I have to admit that I think it is a schizophrenic strategy which the government is running, that is to say, on the one hand, the dismantling of their existing financial bases and, on the other hand, the attempt to set up training stations around which there is no evidence that there will be a search. After all, the Minister has repeatedly mentioned this backlash of 160 million. kr., and today it costs 1.2 million. kr. per person alone students of those who have applied. So my question is: will the government force educational establishments to shut down these training stations when we reach the end of 2022 if there is no money in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165451	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165452	When we reach the end of 2021, we sit down, and then we look at: Has it been possible with these new training stations around Denmark to create a supply that is professionally sound, that has created good education and that may also in itself be financially profitable without extra subsidies? That is the analysis we are going to do and, depending on what it shows, it may well be that it should not continue in some places, but we must look at that. We need, when we do something new, to have a little patience to see if it will work. In fact, I think it is very much because students are also a little conservative that in the first year already 210 have applied to the 15 stations in question here. I think that is actually a positive development. So I look forward to looking at it, and I think it will confirm that there are many people around Denmark who will also take these courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165542	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181212165549	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 13 December 2018, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
