ParlaMint-DK_20181205100014	The meeting is open. The notification is as follows: the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands has submitted a report on the economy of hospitals. 5. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205100039	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 6 December 2019. Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party, for reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205100103	Thank you. In a new report from Danmarks Statistik the prediction is that in 2060 there will be approx. 870,000 non-western immigrants and descendants in Denmark. Today's 87 percent. of us Danish origins in 2060 it will only be 79 per cent. In short, more and more people come from non-western countries, including Muslim countries, while at the same time these are the groups we have the greatest problems of integrating. It is especially the Muslim minorities that form parallel societies physically and spiritually and in many cases form a counter-identity for the Danish. That is why we have cultural clash between Danish and Muslim values so many places in our society. It is therefore necessary to analyse the situation, set an objective and draw up a strategy in this area. I think we need that today. In the Danish People's Party we want a free Danish and democratic society with a strong cohesion. We will therefore fight parallel societies and Islamisation throughout Danish society, while at the same time wanting the influx from Muslim countries limited as much as possible. I look forward to today's debate, when I look forward to hearing the parties' proposals for an integration strategy towards Muslims in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205100215	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. We shall now proceed to the answer. First, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205100227	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity to discuss this important issue today. After all, as I think everyone is aware, we have concluded a new financial agreement, and one of the main elements of the agreement is that asylum should no longer be regarded as an automatic entry ticket for permanent stay in Denmark. The clear starting point must be for refugees to have temporary protection and to return home when there is no longer a need for protection. And while refugees and their families are in Denmark, they must as soon as possible, of course, in employment and become self-supporting. That's common sense. And of course, integration must always be seen and done within this framework. You have to take Denmark to yourself, and you have to support yourself. But it does not change the fact that the stay in Denmark will cease on the day the protection needs are gone. If we look back in a historical perspective, then over the past 40 years a very large group of non-western immigrants has come to Denmark. In 1980 we were 5.1 million people in Denmark and today we are 5.8 million. This growth is mainly due to the arrival of immigrants and descendants in Denmark. The vast majority of people who have come to the country since the 1980s have a non-western background. Where in 1980 there were about 50,000 people in Denmark with a nonwestern background, there are now more than half a million. In my view, there is no doubt that the number of foreigners coming to Denmark means something to the employment effort. It also means something for the challenges of integration and for the fight against parallel societies. This is why the government is pursuing a strict immigration policy to control immigration in Denmark. And that is precisely why the government and the Danish People's Party have now agreed, with a new financial agreement, a change in the course of foreign policy, stressing that the clear starting point for asylum is temporary and that residence permits must be withdrawn or refused if there is no longer a need for protection. We have already, since the government joined approx. 31⁄2 years ago, tightened the rules on both asylum and family reunification and the conditions for obtaining permanent residence permits several times. And in relation to the foreigners who have come to the country, we have introduced the integration allowance, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and we have made demands and we have ensured that it is worthwhile to work. We have pursued a strict and consistent and realistic policy on foreigners; we have ensured that not only fewer refugees are received, but also that we have better control over who is coming to the country and, above all, that those who are staying in Denmark get into employment as soon as possible and become part of Danish society. Now, with the new Finance Act, we're turning some of these handles further. But let us first take a closer look at what has actually happened to the non-western immigrants and descendants who live in Denmark. First of all, I am concerned that the foreigners who come to Denmark will get into employment as soon as possible so that they can make a positive contribution to the economy instead of being supported by public services. And since the entry into office of the Left Government in 2015, over 44,000 more foreigners with a non-Western background have entered a job, and the proportion of the group with a job has increased from 46 per cent. 51 per cent. It is progressing even if it is from a low level and, of course, we also need to move forward. If we look at immigrants with a Western background, employment is on average around 15 percentage points higher in the same period. Since the 1980s, therefore, it has been the greatest challenge to integrate non-western immigrants into the labour market, and there may be different explanations for this. A fairly important part of the explanation is that the group of non-western immigrants who come to the country typically has a significantly higher level of education and also some competences that better match a highly productive Danish labour market, but we must also note that employment among non-western immigrants still lags significantly behind those with Danish backgrounds, even though there has been progress. Above all, we can see that there are far too few immigrant women with a non-western background who are in work. This applies especially to the first years after arrival in Denmark. It is important to get women into the labour market, and that is for several reasons. Employment is a requirement during the stay in Denmark for all adult foreigners, but it is important to maintain that employment is not an entry ticket to stay here permanently. It is important that we do not create an expectation in refugees. We must send out a very clear signal on this, and so do we with the new Finance Act. Having said that, it is also important that you take Denmark in the time you are in this country. It is therefore a matter of much more and more than just employment, although employment often brings with it some good things. But there are women considered less worth than men, social control restricts the freedom of the individual. I have said this before, but I would like to repeat it very much: integration for me is not about us bowing towards each other, giving us a little and meeting somewhere in the middle, it is about when you come to Denmark, you have to accept and respect Danish standards, traditions and values, and we have to stand firm on that. And here we are undoubtedly facing a great challenge in Denmark. The sad thing in reality is that this is being done throughout Europe. That is precisely why this year's government has presented a strategy that addresses these problems. We have reached a large number of broad political agreements. This means, among other things, that the ghettos by 2030 are completely gone. The physical framework must be broken down or changed, and action must be taken against the thinking of isolating itself from the rest of Danish society. Because it is also very much a factor in creating ghettos and parallel societies when there are areas like these. That is why I am very pleased that we have adopted legislation to put the ghettos to death and to prevent new ghettos from emerging. If I have to sum up the government's objectives for foreigners staying in Denmark, then there are three things that are quite fundamental when foreigners are staying here. First of all, you have to work and support yourself, and you have to, as long as you're here. So you should not just be parked on public support. I think most people will agree with me on that. It is only fair to the individual, but also to the taxpayers of Denmark, who have to pay the bill. Secondly, you have to take Denmark in with all that it means while you are here. This means respecting Danish values, and that means taking the very foundations of freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, equality, where girls and boys and women and men are equally valuable. This means that social control and honour-related conflicts do not belong in Denmark. Thirdly, the framework for a stay in Denmark is very clear. A stay as a fugitive is temporary. When there is no longer a need for protection, it is quite clear from the outset that you will have to return home.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101203	Thank you, Minister. There's a question. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101208	Thanks for the speech. I agree with it on many points, but I lacked an answer to the question itself, which is, of course, about how the integration of people who have flowed from Muslim countries has progressed. The Minister managed to make a speech in which the word Islam or Muslim was not included, although that is the question in the question. So how does the Minister feel that the integration of the people who have flocked from Muslim countries has gone, and what is the status of the integration of this population in relation to other immigrants from other countries? And what are the government's ambitions and goals for the Muslim population in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101252	But I think that these are just two ways of saying the same thing, because the non-western countries are, in large part, Muslim countries, and that is exactly what I drew up, namely that the problem is not about the American, German or English who come to Denmark, because they quickly enter the labour market, they support themselves, they take on value and the ordinary Danish everyday life. What is the problem is not Western immigrants, and there are, of course, a large proportion of them from Muslim countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101323	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101324	However, the Minister does not recognise that there is a very large difference in how people from, for example, the United Kingdom are. China, Vietnam and Thailand are integrated into Denmark and how Muslim minorities are integrated? And the next question is: Doesn't the minister think that religion and values are based on religion, so it's pretty much the same thing whether you say values or religion is of great importance to whether you are able to adapt to another society? So does this mean that there is a difference in religion, not integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101402	To the first question I would like to say: yes, there is a big difference in comparison with the ability of Chinese and Vietnamese both to support themselves and, one might say, to fall into the ordinary Danish everyday life. And secondly, I would like to say that I can certainly say that it is not Buddhists, Jews and Hindus who subject their women to social control; it is not, and there is no doubt that, in the field of social control, honour-related conflicts, a deep divide exists when it comes to the acceptance of freedom of expression, freedom of religion and equality, it is not Jews, Hindus or Buddhists who are represented there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101445	Thank you to the Minister in this round. We are going to the negotiations themselves, and it is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205101459	I am incredibly pleased that a financial law agreement has just been concluded which provides for refugees to be returned from now on whenever possible. I very much hope that this agreement will have an effect on the projection of population development, as I mentioned earlier, because the very number of foreigners in the country means a great deal, including integration, and here I clearly believe that there is room for improvement. To date, the integration of Muslims has not been successful. We have not had, and still do not have, a clear measure of what integration is and, in my opinion, there is a high degree of fear of touch in the area of value. In the Danish People's Party we believe that integration could just as well be called assimilation, because of course we want to be able to enter into the Danish population smoothly in the end. This means that Denmark must also be taken into account in the field of value. This means that you are proud to call yourself Dane and see it as a good thing that your children marry Danes. In our view, this objective of integration should be clearly understood by all Danes and non-Danes in Denmark. Among Muslim minorities, we have encountered greater integration problems than among other groups of foreigners with non-Western backgrounds. We know the value clashes from the Muhammad crisis, we know them from the television broadcast • The Mosques behind the veil and we know it from media reports about the terrorist attack in January 2015 and the resulting guarding of Jewish institutions. But we also know it from our ordinary everyday life in school classes, residential areas and on the streets, from the small struggles for food in the institutions, about shower curtains, about holidays, about setting up Christmas trees, about conditions during Ramadan, about accepting the teaching of ancient knowledge in high school, where you also have to look at the naked breasts of Greek statues, etc. etc. Unfortunately, there are enough examples to take off. And then there's the distance, where there's just not really any contact between Danes and Muslims, where you just live apart and don't talk to each other. This is what is sadly happening in primary, secondary and residential schools. Even if you're not physically separate, you're mentally separate. It is clear that religion plays a very important role in this division, and that is why I am of course very concerned when Danish and foreign studies can demonstrate that Muslims in the West become more religious in the next generations. It is likely to create even greater distance between Danes and Muslims. We have to do something about that. It is possible to be integrated in Denmark, although one has a religion that differs significantly. Our Jewish minorities have shown this by their perfect integration into Danish society for centuries. So there seems to be a way, but we need to push more in the right direction. In the Danish People's Party we want it to be clear to everyone that we live in a Christian country. Fortunately, we have freedom of religion and it is therefore quite right to be a Muslim. But one should not be able to expect to be able to practise one's religious regulations everywhere and all the time, and certainly not where they impose a restriction on the surrounding Danish society and require special consideration or changes to the Danish traditions. We believe that in Denmark we should not allow Islamisation of our institutions. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have repeatedly tabled resolutions to improve the integration of Muslims and to counteract the Islamisation of society. As a Muslim, one must be able to compromise with the religious requirements of one's religion in order to adapt to Danish society. This is a natural requirement in the integration process. We believe that this message and demand should be made much more clear everywhere in Denmark, dealing with Muslim immigrants and descendants. If we do not have a more conscious approach to these problems in Danish society, we risk having a more and more fragmented country with parallel societies and non-Danish counter-identities. Of course, we do not want that. We want a free, Danish and democratic society with a strong cohesion, and we will therefore fight parallel societies and Islamisation throughout Danish society, while at the same time wanting the influx from Muslim countries limited as much as possible. Together with the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, we have drawn up the following proposals for adoption which read as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that since the 1980s Denmark has received a large number of immigrants from non-western countries, including countries where a large proportion of the population is Muslim. The link with the labour market for this group is significantly lower than those with Danish background, and in addition, too many live in the same residential areas isolated from the surrounding society. It has formed a breeding ground for parallel societies where Islamic customs are tried to be enforced at the expense of Danish values, rules and norms. Foreigners must accept and respect Danish values. The Danish Parliament notes that a plan has been adopted to combat ghettos in Denmark up to 2030. The Danish Parliament notes that a strong cohesion is a prerequisite for a free, Danish and democratic society, and that therefore constant action must be taken against parallel societies, while at the same time reducing the influx of asylum to Denmark as much as possible. • V 23). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102019	This proposal is now part of the further debate. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102026	Thank you. I heard Mrs Krarup say in a brief statement that religion and values are the same. I do not know if I heard correctly, but I would like to confirm whether that is what Mrs Krarup said and whether she actually means it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102046	Most people agree that the values of people are rooted in religion, not necessarily individual active faith, but in the religion that is the reason for the organization of society, and there are no societies without religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102102	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102106	In other words, if you are a socialist or a radical culturalist, which is an essential part of Danish history and cultural heritage, is cultural radicalism also a religion?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102123	It is not in itself, but it is very difficult to find any Danes today who are not cultural Christians. It may be that they themselves are not consciously believers, active believers, but 99.9%. of the Danes living in Denmark are cultural Christians, so it is an atheist and a cultural radical as a rule, and usually they are not aware of it at all. It's just part of their way of being. They take Sundays off without knowing that it is actually on the basis of a Christian reason that you take the day off there. You have designed your life according to the surrounding traditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102157	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102204	Thanks to the Danish People's Party for calling this debate, which I feel we have taken a few rounds since the last parliamentary elections, and therefore it may also be that some of what I am saying has perhaps been said here from the platform before. The guest workers from the 1960s and 1970s are usually very aware of their own national identity. They're Kurds or Turks or Pakistanis. The same applies to many of the refugees. We are from Afghanistan or Somalia or Iraq, they say. They are born in the homeland, and they speak their native language perfectly, they have memories of their upbringing and a strong national feeling. But their children, born in Denmark, naturally do not have the same roots in their parents' home countries. Their national identity is characterized by rootlessness. At least that's my experience. On the other hand, I find that many of them seek roots in their religion, typically in Islam. A young guy from Albertslund explained to me that he felt both foreign in Denmark and in Turkey. He said that he had never been to Brøndby Stadium, but that he followed much in the Turkish football league. When he is on vacation in his grandparents' village in Konya Province, he sits all day bored at the city's online café playing video games with friends at home in Denmark. Hans Turkish is broken and mixed up with English and Danish and Arabic, and he experiences himself as lost between two nations, robbed of a national feeling. It can quickly develop into rootlessness. In connection with another discussion with another young man, I asked: Do you really feel more like a Dane or a Turk, and then he replied in one word that he felt most like a Muslim. That's worrying. Securing ownership of Danishness is an important issue and preventing parallel societies is an important task. But my experience is that we are failing in both areas. More and more young people in our society do not actually feel like Danes. It's catastrophic. I have previously told you from the platform about an experience at an excellent Turkish restaurant close to where I live. I sit and eat with my family, we were the only ones in the whole restaurant who spoke Danish radio over the loudspeakers, Turkish TV on television, which hung in the corner, Turkish staff, Turkish customers, next to a Turkish butcher, to the other side a Turkish hairdresser, around the restaurant residences, as far as the eye can see, with a majority of Turkish and Kurdish residents, at the school very many of their children, who can grow up learning only Danish as a technical second language, the rest of their lives are settled in Turkish. That is what I think is a huge political failure because it divides our society and it prevents the experience of cohesion. It undermines solidarity and will be the main challenge of the welfare state if we do not deal with it. It is true when people point to better housing policy or social policy or labour market policy and much other good as a solution, I do not wish to reject that at all. But I think we should bear in mind that the vast majority of immigrants are law-abiding, nice and nice people who are doing quite well in Danish society with education and permanent work. They are not social clients, yet parallel societies are growing. Therefore, we do not avoid talking more directly about loyalty and interest to the Danish community and thus also about Danishism. I usually ask young Danish Muslims to take the legoclus test myself. I say that a woman from Thisted stumps into a lego block and goes to the hospital, and at the same time there is a Muslim who pops in a lego block in her apartment in Malmø. You don't know any of them, I say to the young people, one lives in the same country as yourself, the other believes in the same god as you, who do you really want your treasures to go to help? Fortunately, the vast majority say the woman from Thisted. They have thus passed the legocum test and can call themselves Danes in the heart, but I will not deny that too many would rather help the Swedish Muslim, or as there are usually always some who say: Can you share the money? I think this is a gigantic problem for the welfare state, just as it is a huge problem if the taxpayers of Thisted feel no connection with the citizens of Brøndby Strand. Then support simply crumbles into social and geographical redistribution. I would therefore like to use this debate to say clearly to immigrants and to their children and grandchildren: Zap on Danish television. I am getting tired of so many interested in the weather forecast in Pakistan rather than in Denmark. You guys live here. In the same way, I would also like to say to anyone who doubts that Muslim immigrants and their children and grandchildren can be Danes: they can pack away their old-fashioned and staggered understanding of Danishness. Ethnic and religiously homogeneous Denmark is over. Put Monopoly on the DVD if you miss it, but get used to Danes now coming in many colors and with many religions. Finally, I think we should be careful to turn the debate into a debate on Islam. We should not be against Islam. We must be for Denmark and for democracy, and that means that people must join our society by working, by learning the language, by not isolating themselves in parallel mini-communitys, by supporting democracy. That is our demand, and within this framework one can easily be a Muslim. Then, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I have one: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the number of immigrants and descendants from non-western countries has increased quite considerably over the last three or four decades. Although most of our new fellow citizens are doing well in Denmark, there are still too many unemployed foreigners, Danish knowledge is still too poor and there is a dull tendency for us to live more socially and ethnically separate. In order to ensure sustainable integration, there is therefore a need to limit the number of asylum seekers and family reunifications. The Folketing will uphold the freedom of religion of its citizens, and at the same time stresses that Danish law is secular and that religion is thus a personal matter. It is therefore unacceptable that in some immigrant communities there is a tendency to justify the rights and duties of other people with reference to religious rules. • V 24).
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102802	That too will be part of the further debate. But first we have a few brief comments. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102808	Thanks for the speech. I am pleased to hear a Social Democratic rapporteur speak of loyalty to Denmark. It is beautiful. And I think that should also be the goal of integration. But later in the speech there came some other things that I am not so excited about, which is what I want to ask. Does the rapporteur think that Denmark is multicultural and that Denmark should be multicultural?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102837	I am pleased that the Danish People's Party, like the Social Democratic Party, attaches importance to the fact that loyalty to our society, that is to say to our state and to the rest of the population, is the prerequisite for us to make this work. I do not believe that multiculture should be supported. I do not believe that multicultural development supports the welfare state; I believe that it undermines cohesion. However, I believe that we should recognise and have no problem with the fact that we have become a multi-religious and multi-ethnic society. I believe that there is a difference between supporting multicultural social development and then multi-ethnic and multi-religious societal development.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102923	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205102924	So what the rapporteur thinks is that we note that there are different religions and cultures, but that we continue to build on one unifying, one leading culture. At least that's what I mean. I hope that is what the rapporteur also thinks, because otherwise you will be in what is called multiculture, even if the rapporteur says that it is not. But if you do not think that there is one culture that is the leading one and that is the one in which the other cultures must be integrated, then we are in a similar situation to multiculturalism, even though the rapporteur distanced himself from the word itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103004	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103005	There was once an excellent Social Democratic Minister for Education, Hartvig Frisch, who said: Culture is a habit. And to the extent that it is about dress or eating habits, I think Denmark can easily accommodate more cultures. To the extent that this is about women's views or the relationship between religious rules and politically agreed rules, I do not believe that we can accommodate more cultures. So I think we should be precise when we talk about cultures, and part of it can easily be accommodated in Danish society. But where religious rules are contrary to politically agreed rules, i.e. democracy, I believe that it is God who has a duty to give way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103050	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103051	Thank you very much. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye says that we are failing in both areas, and I am just so tired of hearing about how we mean, does the rapporteur not think that all immigrants, but especially Muslims themselves, bear the greatest responsibility for integrating themselves, for wanting to integrate themselves, and that it is not necessarily us who have failed them, but those who have failed us?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103122	Well, the greatest responsibility will always lie with the people who travel to another society. I think that is obvious. But when I say "we," I don't mean all of us who are not Muslims, I mean all of us who live in this community. Because I believe that our society as a community, which collectively has a responsibility to ensure that we take care of the cohesion that is in our society and that is the prerequisite for the welfare state. I find it very difficult to imagine that we can continue a high level of economic redistribution in this society if people do not have an experience that they are in the same boat. That is why it is also a common and political task to take care of the cohesion of Danish society. My own experience is that it crumbles a little. I have the experience that divisions are growing in Danish society at the moment and that the political will to pay for each other's knee operations is going down, and I find that sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103219	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103220	I therefore agree with the rapporteur when the rapporteur says that it is everyone in society. And there is, as the rapporteur also said in his speech, a large group of Muslims, where it is just running on rails, where they are really just integrated and where there are no problems. But the problem is that that very group of Muslims is the great silent majority, because we never hear anything from them. They are not the ones who rise up and say: Now you want Denmark, all of you who do not want to. And I think that's a huge problem. I also think it is a major problem that the rapporteur does not think that Islam has any role to play or that it should not be about Islam because Islam is the root of the nettle, that is at the heart of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103256	I very much agree with the Pernille Bendixen of the Danish People's Party that at least a majority of Muslims in Denmark want Danish society, and that these are the least of them. I believe that our task as a parliament is to get us ally with them and so few isolated and combat the unfortunately very vocal minority of immigrants and descendants who distance themselves from Danish society. I think that alliance will be easier to establish if we ensure that the common basis on which we meet is democracy and that we do not ask people to renounce their religion to enter the house of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103338	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103339	Thanks for a nice speech. I thought there were a lot of good things in it. In fact, I believe that it is essential, in the service of the truth, that we try to describe the reality as it is, and that is where I would say that Islam is a problem, and that is why I think it should be important in this debate to address the problem that exists, among other things. With jihad and part of this Sharia alien. It is not just a question of believing in God; it is also a question of containing some things that anyone living in a free and decent democracy like the Danish must reject. That is why it is just a question to the rapporteur about whether there are any problems with Islam, because I think there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103437-2	In fact, I think this is a rather relevant discussion, and I am glad that the Danish People's Party has come up with a great deal today, because I believe that the message to come from the Danish Parliament is: Welcome to Denmark, welcome to our society, and welcome to a democratic society; a democracy that we understand; with democratic child rearing, democratic family view, women's view, democratic, in relation to the secular rules, that is, the law that governs the common rules of play between us. And to the extent that you can agree with it, the ideals of the Enlightenment and the Danish popular rule as it has developed over generations, you are welcome, and it is your own responsibility to ensure that your religion fits into that form of society. We are not at war with Islam, we are at war for democracy, and then people themselves must adapt their religion to that society. If we start the discussion by saying that the gap here is between Christianity and Islam, we have already lost. We have to say that it is between democracy and non-democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103539	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103540	I don't think I can agree with everything, but just leave it alone. Then I would like to say something else, because I believe there is a marked difference between Christianity and Islam, and that is just the way it is. But I believe that this debate that we are having in Denmark is also stimulated by the fact that since the Khomeini Revolution in Iran in 1979 there has been an Islamic awakening in the Middle East, which is very much a feature of the Muslim countries, but of course there is also the debate or the influence of Islam here, and I think that is something that should be included in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103620	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103621	I fully agree that there are differences between Christianity and Islam, also significant differences. What I am just saying here is that the basis we are asking people to join is democracy and the principles of democracy. We do not ask people to renounce their religion; they themselves must be involved in it. We only have one set of rules in Denmark. When we travel in traffic, we all observe the traffic law, we do not have a special traffic law for Muslims that they have to comply with, we only have the traffic law we have passed here, and whether or not it says in the Koran that you have to drive on the left side of the road, you are now driving on the right side of the road here. These are the common rules of the game, and that must be on the basis that people subscribe to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103703	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205103718	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this very important debate. There is no doubt that for a very long time we have had major challenges with integration in Denmark. We have experienced an influx of people that we must be honest in acknowledging that we have had a very difficult time integrating into our society. For too long, no proper demands have been made on those who came here. During the 1990s there was a political anxiety from the political level. Too many foreigners from non-western countries came here, and instead of becoming part of the labour market, they were left on passive support and no one required them to enter the labour market. Nobody really dared to lift the debate about the fact that it is a matter of course when you go to a country, that you acquire the country's values and basic vision, and that it is not an exchange; that it is something you do one way. If you come to Denmark, it is the Danish values you take in, not the other way around. There was enough to make up through the '00s. That is why we tightened the immigration policy with the realization that the number is important for the cohesion of Denmark and for our ability to have a more well-functioning society, where more people take part in the ideas and ideals we see as obvious here. And we've gone further. With the integration benefit, which in future is called the self-reliance and return service, we have tightened the rules for family reunification in order to control the influx. Last year we received the lowest number of asylum seekers in nine years. We have brought more refugees into the labour market. The proportion of refugees and family members to refugees who are in jobs after 3 years in Denmark has doubled since Left took over government responsibility in 2015. Earlier this year, we presented an ambitious strategy against parallel societies, which has since become six broad and significant agreements against parallel societies. Therefore, our goal is that Denmark should be without ghettos by 2030, and when we talk about areas without ghettos, we are talking about areas where there should no longer be a parallel society that, in particular, has no Western ideals or non-Danish ideals as the prevailing ideals. We're on our way, but it's a long, cool move. Now we have reached a second stage in the work. We must get away from what had become normal, namely that temporary protection became a permanent residence. For it is also important for integration when too many people stay here longer than was intended. Last Friday we and the other government parties agreed with the Danish People's Party on a new alien agreement. With the agreement, we increase the focus on the fact that refugees should only stay temporarily in Denmark. At the same time, the position of the Left is that as long as refugees are in Denmark, they must support themselves. They must be an active part of the working community. This gives us better opportunities to invest in our common welfare when refugees are in work rather than on transfer income, and it benefits the individual refugee. For these are the very experiences and skills that they must take home and use when their homeland is to be rebuilt. Where they have left or fled, the problem is that our values do not exist. These are the values they need to learn here and take home with them. It makes their countries of origin better when they rebuild them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104108	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104110	Thanks for the speech. There were many things I agree with, but I also noticed that in this speech the word Islam or Muslim was not used, although that is what we have asked in the text of the question. That is why I would like to ask: does the rapporteur not think that in practice it has proven that it is considerably more difficult to integrate people with an Islamic background in Denmark than other non-western immigrants? And does the rapporteur not think that this is something that we need to incorporate into an integration strategy for the people who have to stay in the country? We know that there are many people who have to be sent out with our new Finance Act, but there are some who have to stay, and they have to get to be Danes at some point. Should we not, then, incorporate the knowledge we have that it is more difficult for people with an Islamic background to be integrated into an active, forward-looking integration strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104216	I think I will reply a little, as the Minister did, that this is what we are talking about when we talk about parallel societies and the strategy against parallel societies. There, in particular, immigrants from Muslim countries or refugees from Muslim countries have values other than our own, and it is in that space that we need to find solutions. Islam can be the cause of many problems, but worst of all, when Islam turns into Islamism and becomes a political workshop. Of course, we must have zero tolerance there. But I also agree with the previous speaker, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, in that you have to believe what you want in this society. The problem arises when what you believe in is turned into a political tool to challenge the obvious values of this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104309	Mrs Krarup wishes to speak? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104313	Well, it's a little festive that we say that it's Islam and Muslims we're talking about, but you just don't use the words. That's grotesque, 'cause we don't. It's so taboo. But I hope that in practice we will come to that. It also sounds very sweet that it is said that you have to believe what you want. I think so myself, because we have freedom of religion. But we have to take account of the fact that there are some things that come with us. After all, Islam is a complex in which there is both faith and a whole lot of religious rules, which in many ways run counter to everything that we know. You can't ignore that. So, in some way, you have to do an analysis and take into account the things that will naturally arise in the cultural clash we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104400	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104401	But to the extent that there are religious customs and laws that bump into the rules of the game that apply here, it is always Islam's laws and rules of the game that must give way to the rules that apply here. We do not disagree on that at all. But it will also apply to other religions who may seek the same clash with the rules in force here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104427	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104429	Excuse me, but it seems rather striking that the Minister and the rapporteur have decided not to mention Islam by name in the rapporteur's speech. I think that is just confirmation that this debate still has much to do with a proper, enlightened debate. 'Cause I think you're guilty of some bullshit. What I tried to do before the Social Democrat rapporteur was that there is a problem with Islam because Islam is political in its essence. It is about the righteous state, it is about the caliphate, it is about the clean and the unclean. Is it complex a problem in the West? Yes, it is. Not only in Denmark, but in all the European countries, there have been huge problems. We will have to be able to talk about this if this debate is to actually lead to a proper place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104540	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104541	I'm not sure I caught a direct question on that, sir. Christian Langballe mentioned here, but I'd like to give you that line, and then you'll have to follow up if I haven't fully annamed what we're talking about. But it is clear that Islamism, when used as a political tool, is a huge challenge. This is one of the greatest challenges we have in our time. We are not blind to that at all, and we must be open about it in the way we talk about it. I also think, when I have been such a part of the debate that has been going on all my life and up until today, that I would say that we have become much less concerned about taking that debate. If there is any doubt that it is Islam and Islamism that are the starting point for the debate and the way we keep it informed, then I would like to clear it up. It is quite obvious that Islam used as a political tool is a huge problem for our society and is what prevents integration into our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104654	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104655	Yes, but what I'm just seeing, and then the rapporteur can confirm or deny it, is that Islam is basically a political religion or ideology that describes the way forward towards the righteous state, which is to be found in the caliphate regulated by the laws that are in Sharia. It's as simple as that. The way there is what is called the jihad it can then take place in different ways. It's just described.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104732	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104733	Well, I don't think so, sir. Christian Langballe that I feel theologically dressed to do such an analysis of what Islam really is, but I note that Islam is being used politically, so it is also. I also hope that it is so much more than that, and I think there is evidence that a large majority of Muslims in this country do not want political Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104805	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104806	Thank you. In order to deal with the last thing the rapporteur said, that is to say, with the Muslims who are silent. After all, they are forced by social control by the others to correct, and then it is inevitable that the Sharia law pervades the Koran and the entire complex there. In fact, Jyllands-Posten has made a study among Muslims twice in 2006 and in 2015 when it is asked whether to follow the Qur'an's instructions fully. That number has risen from 62%. to 77 per cent, that is to say, 77 per cent. of the Muslims believe that the Quran's words are crucial. In the Koran lies Sharia law, which includes the stoning of women, that women are inferior, forced marriages, segregation of sex, and that the imam is the last word. That is what is at the heart of the problem. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205104904	At any rate, I agree that when you come to Denmark, no matter what religion you have with you, and you have perceptions of how women and men should be to each other, or what sexuality you have to choose, or what values are to prevail, it is the values that should give way, to the extent that they are at all in conflict with the rules and values that of course qua our history, our constitution and the developments we have undergone apply here. You have to assimilate yourself to a Danish value set in order to be here. If there are polls, which I do not know exactly, that show that many people feel that the Koran's set of values is above a set of values that is present here, then it emphasizes that we have a great challenge with the population group I fully agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105003	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105005	I am so glad that the rapporteur agrees. Then I'd like to follow up on it a little bit, as Mr. Christian Langballe and Marie Krarup took note of the fact that it is not mentioned directly, either by the rapporteur or the Minister, that Islam is the problem. And that is the kind of political correctness that we need to overcome if we are to get to the heart of the problem. We simply have to say that it is Islam that is the problem and Islam cannot be divided into such a peaceful part and a less edible part that we do not want in Denmark. It can't be done. That's why we just have to argue that Islam is the problem and no longer is it. That is, of course, the whole problem with the ghetto plans, because they do not address culture at all or that vision and the attitudes and values.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105051	Thank you! Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105052	I acknowledge the comment, but of course I would also like to say that I have tried to answer on several occasions that political Islam or Islamism is our main challenge and that is the problem. I do not know how to meet Mrs Pernille Bendixen more than by saying so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105122	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105145	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. If you look at the backgrounds from which immigrants with the lowest employment rate come, there are little surprises to see. These are Syria, Somalia, Lebanon, Iraq and Afghanistan. Of course they are not western, but they differ significantly from other non-western groups in Danish society. For example: The employment rate among people coming from Thailand is about the same as among those coming from Sweden. It is a useful statistical tool to distinguish between Western and non-Western immigrants. But it is important to remember that behind this distinction there are some very marked differences. We have great problems with people who come from one particular cultural group, while virtually all other non-westerns are doing quite well in Danish society. So to answer the question, it is crystal clear that immigration from Muslim countries poses a particular challenge. Crime among immigrants from Muslim countries is significantly higher, employment rates are significantly lower and they are doing significantly worse in the education system. It can also be said in this way that multicultural society would actually be a very great success if it were not for immigration from Muslim countries. And I would like to stress that I understand that this debate is extremely frustrating for citizens with Muslim backgrounds who are well integrated in Denmark; fortunately there are very many of them. However, we are doing them no service by not talking about the obvious problems associated with immigration from Muslim countries. That is why it is crucial that we pursue a strict foreign policy. As far as possible, we should not receive more immigrants from Muslim countries as long as there are so many problems with their integration. That is why it is good that the last financial agreement has emphasised that asylum is temporary; it should not be immigration, it has never been intended. Since the elections, practically all areas of immigration and integration policy have been tightened up. We move slowly, but surely, away from chaos and towards order. The results are also slowly beginning to appear. For example: was only 21 per cent. of refugees and family members in employment in 2015, now the figure is 45%. It's covering up that 57 percent. of men are in employment while only 20% are in employment. of the women. Both numbers are far too low, but now things are moving in the right direction. But there is a long, long way to go, not only in this area, but in virtually every area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105540	Thanks for the speech. I was glad that this speech did not include the same fear of touch as the other speakers. The word Islam and Muslim were mentioned, and thanks for that, and it was said that multiculture could be a good idea if Islam did not exist. I fully agree that such ideas would probably exist in the perfect world, but not down here on earth. So multiculturalism doesn't work. I am glad that the rapporteur has the same basic attitude as I am, and so I would like to hear what we have to do. Because, in my opinion, the government does not have a clear enough objective for what integration is and I do not see a strategy for what it is that we should do with the people who have to stay here. Fortunately, there are many people who have to be returned after our new financial agreement, but there are also some who have to stay here. What is it you have to do? I myself have recommended a very clear position that we should demand that we conform to the Danish leading culture and demand loyalty to Denmark. Is this the same strategy that the rapporteur would recommend?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105651	I am rather sorry that Mrs Marie Krarup says that there is no strategy. After all, the government and the Danish People's Party work closely together, make an incredible number of agreements together, this is the latest example of the financial law agreement, but far from the only one, and as I mentioned briefly, it also appears that things are moving slowly, but surely, in the right direction on many parameters. Nor do I disagree with the fact that it is a prerequisite that you conform to Danish values when you come to Denmark, for example. As a matter of course, we recognize that the laws that we adopt here in the Folketing are above religious laws. There is, of course, freedom of religion in Denmark, but laws passed in the Folketing are above religious laws. I am, as a Liberal, sceptical of religions such as Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105803	Thank you. Does Mrs Marie Krarup want another question? It's a good thing you have to get in there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105809	I am, of course, pleased with the cooperation that has taken place between the government and the Danish People's Party, and it is also true that we have pushed everything in the right direction, but I do not believe that there is a clear strategy. I believe that the Danish People's Party is very much pushing the other parties towards something that is very right, but I have repeatedly called on the Minister of Integration to set out a clear goal for integration and a clear strategy. I do not think we have seen it clearly, and I also believe that the problem itself, when one dares not use the word Islam and Muslim, lies there. You don't have a clear analysis. So there I would urge the rapporteur to get on the ground when the rapporteur actually dares to use those words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105852	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105854	I do not entirely agree, even in the description of the Minister for Integration. I now think that there is a clear strategy and I think that it translates into a whole range of measures, for example. That services are reduced, that you create incentives for people to see for themselves an idea of being in employment, which will often require a clash with their own cultural standards, for example. That the woman should go home. When it no longer pays off, when you can no longer maintain a standard of living on public support, that pressure will unfold. I think that, in many, many areas, there is a lot of hard work to be done, and what is the goal, if I may finish it...
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105942	No, you can't. We'll move on to the next speaker, and that's sir. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205105946	Thank you. Prior to this debate, I tried to print out some statistics about the employment rate, how many people are on public support, how many are committing crime, how many are taking education and how much turnout is for citizens in Denmark with roots in different countries. And I have to say that I am surprised at how clearly it turns out that people who have typically migrated from Muslim countries are hitting negatively in these statistics. I knew there was a tendency, but I'm actually surprised at how clear this is. So I have wondered whether the categories we have in Denmark's Statistics, which relate to Western and non-Western origins, are really accurate, and I would like to ask how the Liberal Alliance feels about that. Could you, for example, do that? Imagine that we divided the category called non-Western into two, namely in a category of people from those countries where we can immediately see that statistics are negative, and a category of people from countries such as Ireland. Thailand and the Philippines, which are doing just about as well as people of Danish origin, so that we can have a more accurate statistics as a basis for the discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110050	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110052	I think that would be a good idea. Because it has to be said that the debate muddles that we have this concept of non-Western, which covers people from a large number of countries, which we have to say are very different, and that there is also a huge difference in how well people are doing. In other words, Chinese, who do not come from any democracy, are doing very well in Denmark. I also mentioned Thais. Many other groups can be mentioned which are doing very well. In fact, it is only when you look at immigrants from Muslim countries that you experience these boring statistics. So in order to have a more rightful debate, it could, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye suggests be a great idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110152	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110153	Well, I'm glad that's the immediate reaction of the Liberal Alliance. When we were discussing how refugees were to be distributed in the municipalities a few years ago, we managed to change the rules so that people who were here on an au pair residence permit did not talk to as foreigners in a municipality and thus Gentofte almost doubled the number of refugees they were to receive. And then there were some other municipalities that should have fewer. Of course, I am also wondering, for example, whether this is the case. In connection with the municipal compensation should trigger extra subsidies that you have children of Chinese a school when we can see they are doing just as well as everyone else. Shouldn't we focus on this support for the municipalities that actually have challenges in the school system and in the day institutions with children from those countries where we can see statistically that there are challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110231	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110232	Actually, I think it's hard to argue with. I agree with that. When you can see that there are clear statistical differences in relation to where people come from, this should also be reflected in the way we settle things. I would say that this with support is not the solution. I mean, redistributing a lot of money to these things and spreading the problems I don't really believe in. What is the solution is to bring down immigration and to create incentives for people to take care of themselves. It's their own responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110316	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110317	Thank you. I would like to follow up a little on the question raised earlier by Mrs Marie Krarup in relation to the compatibility between being liberal and being on a liberal basis, and then thinking that Islam cannot be included in the liberal world view or perspective. Or how can I understand when the rapporteur says that multiculturalism can only be positive if Islam is not part of it? How is it compatible with a liberal perspective to go in and say that a particular religion and people belonging to that religion do not have as much justification as the rest?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110357-2	Well, there are plenty of individuals with Muslim background who are doing very well. It's obvious. But as a liberal, I am firmly convinced that other ideologies, communism, Nazism, Islamism, are enemies of liberal democracy. I think it is quite clear when you look into the world that the countries that have based themselves on Islam are countries in which the rapporteur does not want to live either. So there are problems with the ideology of Islam. It's a religion of law. It differs markedly from Christianity, with which there has certainly also been controversy over the times in the Western world at least in the way it has been interpreted but it has then been able to evolve. What we have seen with Islam has been the reverse. It has gone back since the 1950s and 1960s, and that is why we must of course take into account how many people come here with the cultural background, because it matters to our liberal democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110509	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110511	But then the rapporteur equates, it might be said, the orthodox Islamist ideology with the practicing Muslim coming to Denmark. Freedom of religion well lies in practicing faith. I would like, for example, to say something. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we should not live in Saudi Arabia. But if I come from a Muslim country to Denmark as a Muslim and practice my faith privately, do I not have as much legitimacy and justification as the one born in Denmark and practice a Christian faith as long as I comply with the law, respect democracy and respect our penal code? Then why should I, because I practice a Muslim faith, be treated differently or not have the same justification?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110553	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110554	If you're a citizen of this country, you all have the same rights, no matter what your religious background is. Now I am a liberal and we are being asked about liberalism: there are no citizens from any other country who, as a starting point, have any right or can invoke any freedom to come to Denmark. That's what we're calling the shots. And when you can see that a minority, but a very, very large minority of people who have this cultural background, do not take democracy into account, and when you ask them, say that Islam must be above democracy, well then we have a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110638	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110639	Thank you for some, I think, wise remarks. There are some things on which we may disagree, but all in all I thought it was clear what the rapporteur said. I fully agree that this debate on immigration is being conducted on as enlightened a basis as possible, and if we can go in and split up with regard to non-Western immigration, so that there is a clearer picture, then of course we must. Why do we have to do that? Yes, because you make the wisest decisions if it happens on an enlightened basis. So I fully agree with that and I fully agree with it about Islam. I agree that many Chinese are doing well where they go, but I would like to arrest whether it necessarily means that they are integrated? Now let us imagine that there were 500,000 Chinese in Denmark, would they be integrated into Danish society without further ado? I'm not so sure. I think many of them will go to work and take care of their things, but I am not sure they will be integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110750	Thank you. Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110751	No, but I think it would be a problem if 500,000 Chinese came to Denmark. What is integration? For me, it is about agreeing to the fundamental values that are in the country in which you live, and in Denmark it is about being a liberal democracy that we see across political differences very equally on some key issues such as equality, etc. We must agree that we are a liberal democracy. You don't have to commit crime, and you have to support yourself. You simply have to take responsibility for yourself and yours and not hold anyone against you. If you achieve these things, I am personally very open to immigration. Not that there should be 500,000 Chinese, but when I have problems with Muslim immigration, it is precisely because, unfortunately, we do not see that they meet those conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110900	There are no more brief comments and we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205110914	Thank you. With this question debate, the questioners identify a particular group of people on the basis of their religious affiliation and make them the subject of a debate that, in terms of integration, they should be treated differently from other citizens who have moved to Denmark. In other words, with this debate, we are asking a premise that issues relating to the integration of people whose religious affiliation is Islam must be dealt with separately from issues relating to the integration of other people who have moved to Denmark. And we do not agree with that premise in the alternative. We want to talk about integration, but we do not want to talk about integration on the basis of religion. Therefore, I will not answer the question directly, but I would like to enter into a constructive dialogue on how we make it best possible for people to live in Denmark and be citizens of Denmark; how we both make them feel included and how we also challenge them to be included in our society. I could start a value debate, but I don't really feel like it. We've had so many times in this room. So I would really like to mention just some of the basic facts that exist about integration in Denmark. And now Mr. Mattias Tesfaye earlier that he was so slightly dismayed by the numbers. When I read the numbers, I actually get quite safe. There are many figures I have brought with them, and I would really like to use them as a starting point for this debate. There are more people who have come to work when we are not talking about Western immigrants and descendants. In 1995 it was well over 30%, in 2015 it was 50%. We can, among other things. thank the government for and the good work that has been done by the Folketing to get more immigrants and descendants into work. The difference in employment rates between non-western immigrants and descendants and so ethnic Danes was 40%. In 1995, it was only 25%. in 2015. Education levels are rising. For the descendants who receive education in addition to primary school, the figure in 2006 was barely 50 per cent, and in 2015 it was barely 60 per cent. For the Danes it is 70%, so something is still missing that needs to be achieved. There are more descendants from non-western countries who are in higher education than ethnic Danish young people. It's 46.3%. women descendants who are in higher education, and for Danish women the figure is 42.9%. It's 32.7%. male descendants who are in higher education and for Danish men the figure is 30 per cent. So there are more descendants who are in higher education than ethnic Danish young people. It also says a little about the future if you want to put that perspective on it. Particularly female descendants with non-Western background have done well. They are at the level of the women of Danish origin, and they have overtaken the men with Danish background in relation to higher education. However, there is a large group of descendants from non-western countries who are neither in jobs nor in education, and that is a problem. It's 18%. Women and 28%. men from non-western countries, i.e. descendants and young people who are not in jobs or in education. For Danish women and men, the figure is 13%. for women and 16% for women. for the men. So here we have a task to do. Crime is falling. It is still higher among non-western immigrants and descendants than it is in the population as a whole, but it has generally been falling over the last 15 years, so it is going the right way. There was a small minus in the fall during the crisis, but it's flattened again. As far as Danish knowledge is concerned, it is almost 95 per cent. by immigrants and descendants who pass the primary school's final examination in oral Danish, rescripting, writing Danish and mathematics. There is a challenge, compared to the fact that they are on average one grade level below the Danish pupils. Then there's something about the birth rate. Immigrants from non-western countries have significantly fewer children than they did in the past. In 1995 they had an average of over three children. Today the birth rate is below two and very close to the Danish average. Then there's the citizenship study, which I just want to read out a few things. The proportion of non-Western immigrants and descendants who are members of an association has increased by 5%. Since 2012. The proportion of politically active people has increased by 4%. The proportion of young people who experience being restricted in their choice of boyfriend or spouse has fallen by 9%. The proportion of young people who do not support gender equality has fallen by 2%. The development of the experience of discrimination among immigrants and their descendants has unfortunately increased by 5%. since the 2016 measurement. So how's integration going? And here I speak integration widely in Denmark. It's kind of going the right way. Education levels are rising and crime is falling, and employment is looking better. Are there challenges? Yeah, there is, and we have to solve them. But let us focus on everything that is going the right way, and let us praise both the present and the previous governments for the initiatives that have been taken, which have actually led to the right path. Then I have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out, and it is on behalf of the SF, Enhedslisten, Radical Left and the Alternative, and that is as follows: Proposals for adoption • It is the view of the Danish Parliament that the integration of temporary or permanent displaced refugees fails to involve significant costs for both society and the individual. The Danish Parliament therefore strongly opposes the stated intention in the Danish Finance Act 2019 to stop integrating refugees into Danish society as long as they are in Denmark. Good integration and the ability of refugees to make their own lives with perspective and self-sufficiency create security for all. The Danish Parliament also notes that the proposed reduction in the benefits of integration represents a dispute with the principle that all people in Denmark must have a decent basis of living. In Denmark, everyone should have the right to a decent accommodation and an income that can cover basic necessities. The proposed reduction in the benefits of integration for both single and child families will have disastrous consequences for integration and for families. As a result, the Danish Parliament is recommending that the plans for a reduction in the benefits of integration be abandoned. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111542	Thank you. That too is now part of the debate. There are a few brief comments, and that is first Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111547	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for the fact that the rapporteur takes up exactly the integration barometer, which I have criticised to the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs, because it shows a wrong picture of integration, a picture that is not fair. Firstly, you will see that crime is not falling if you go in and look at different categories, so that figure is simply a misleading figure. When you bring all categories, you will see that crime is falling slightly, but when you look at for example. violent crime, you can see that it is increasing. It's not that funny. There are also problems with citizenship and self-determination because you are completely valueless, and then it does not matter what kind of political activity you join, because then it will count positively, even if you join a salafist organisation. That is why this integration barometer does not make sense, and that is why I criticise the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for not having a clear strategy. Then I would say that we do not want Muslims to be treated separately, so the rapporteur has completely misunderstood this. Why does the rapporteur think that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111658	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111659	What I am aware of is that the question text asks about the integration of Muslims in Denmark. And we simply do not recognise the premise that one can ask about the integration of a particular religious group. One might well talk about a demographic group, but not a religious group, because it is simply a breach of what we can call freedom of religion and respect for one's being able to have the faith one wants. Then there may be challenges in living up to the democratic rules of the game, and there are for different Danes, but we do not recognise that to put it on religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111729	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111730	That's simply nonsense. Then you will not relate to reality because reality is in a way that you cannot really endure. The fact is that we have a group that separates and differs significantly, and that is a problem that needs to be addressed. You have to analyse it, and then you have to find a way to treat all immigrants and descendants, where, in my opinion, very clear demands must be made from the beginning if you want to be in Denmark. There is no need for special treatment, because everyone has to be treated in the same way, but one has to do an analysis in which one dares to face reality. Even the alternative must dare to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111813	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111814	I am not afraid to face reality, but we just have to ask ourselves what kind of premises we are starting from. When the group to which the rapporteur refers comes from Muslim countries, it is assumed that it is because of religion that there are the problems to which the rapporteur refers, and that is the first premise to which we will be asking questions. I know a lot of believing Muslims who live a very, very fine democratic life in Denmark. So when you ask questions or challenge the view that you have a desire to participate on an equal footing in democratic society across religions, we have a problem. We have a penal code. If you violate the penal code in Denmark, you must, of course, be punished for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111855	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205111856	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I do not belong to those who believe that integration is a disaster and have gone completely wrong. I actually consider the glass to be half full. I also think it is just important to keep a close eye on some of the challenges that are and certainly not talk them down. Now the alternative rapporteur mentions a large number of figures on how integration works better and, of course, we should welcome that. I also think it might be interesting to get a little down on why things are going better. We know, for example, that it is better for immigrants who come to our country and who live in communities where there is a majority of people of Danish origin. When it was decided in 1999 that refugees should be distributed to all municipalities, there was a lot of opposition to it. It was a tape for people who came here. What is the alternative to this? I might also ask: when we see a better level of education among young women of different ethnic backgrounds, many experts point out that this is due to the 24-year rule. What is the alternative to this? And finally, we know today that children from immigrant families are doing better at school because, among other things, they are doing better at school. have been language tests in kindergarten. What is the alternative to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112005	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112006	That was a lot of questions at once. I think I will start by saying that I did not, in fact, just mention things that go better, even though they were part of them. I also mentioned the challenges that I believe we must clearly address. It's more to nuance it. All the numbers I've taken up are from an article in Zetland, where you like to try to unfold the picture. So there are some concerns, and I mentioned them too. I fully agree with the challenge of mixed residential areas, and I know we agree on that. The rapporteur and I agree that this is a housing social problem. So, the day we get a mixed housing stock in Denmark, I don't think we're going to see these challenges to that extent either. That is also why, in my reply earlier, I had to say that I simply do not believe it, and as a politician I do not want to stand up and say that it is the fault of religion; it is because you are a Muslim that you may be over-represented in some statistics. These are some housing social challenges, some social challenges that do so. And we have seen that we have always had a proletariat and an underclass in Denmark. Previously, it was the working class, now we're getting an ethnic subclass. Moreover, it is being strengthened by the new Financial Law Agreement that has been concluded. So that's my perspective on facing things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112117	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112119	I'm not so interested in guilt. It's a theological concept. But I am interested in cause and effect, and I believe that some of the reasons why we see things going better are that some decisions have been made in this room that I have the impression that the alternative is against. That is why I am interested to hear: does the alternative support the distribution of refugees according to a distribution key in which they do not choose which municipality they are going to go? Does the alternative support the 24-year rule? Does the alternative support language screening for children in kindergarten to find out if extra intensive Danish teaching is needed before they can start in 0th grade?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112149	We don't mind language screening. What we have been opposed to in relation to kindergartens and schools is, for example, what we have been against in relation to kindergartens and schools. the forced stop test, which the Social Democratic Party supports. You expose children of 6 years of age to it with the prospect that they will have to go 0th grade again if they do not pass. I just have to say that we can work on improving children's languages, children who have challenges, in a lot of ways, and we can work a lot with carrots, but if we work on a punishment, it's just the wrong way. That is what we are against. It is not the intentions that we are opposed to, but we are against the methods used when you start forcing people to do something against their will.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112226	Well, then, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112227	Thank you. Then I would just like to ask what is the alternative's explanation for the fact that immigrants from Muslim countries are doing so significantly worse than immigrants from other non-western countries, who can often be just as poor and who necessarily do not have democracy either. However, it is remarkable, and it is not only true in Denmark, that there are these great differences throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112256	I simply do not know whether what the rapporteur is saying right now is true if we talk about income levels, social class levels, in other words that classes are the same across the groups that are when we talk about non-western countries in general. I don't think that's right, and I get it. I believe that when we talk about some of the Middle East countries from which Denmark has had immigration, there are many of the people from there who come from conditions that we would certainly not want, and that, of course, presents some challenges, especially some educational challenges. So I think there is a difference between the level of social class, the social level, the standard of living with which you come to the country. And that is not because we believe it is not a challenge. I do not stand here and say that this is not a challenge, but we just have to be very, very aware of how we deal with it and who we accuse of being the reason why the statistics look like they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112350	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112351	That is to say, the alternative does not mean that the cultural background one brings and the norms one brings, which of course also have something to do with the religion one comes with, plays any role whatsoever and can be part of the explanation that people with this very specific cultural background are doing significantly worse than everyone else and that it just has something to do with the social class. So it is quite the reverse of what we have heard from that wing before, namely that people from Syria etc. They would easily be integrated when they came to Denmark because they had a high level of education, etc. Well, the reality hasn't proven to be the one that's been claimed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112436	Then it is the rapporteur who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112437	No, and one of the reasons why it hasn't turned out to be so is that Denmark is extremely bad at matching the skills you bring with jobs. That's actually true. That's actually true. If you go out and ask in the job centres, if you go out and ask out on the Igu, you hear that we are good at getting them into jobs, but that one of the challenges is that we are not very good at matching competences from the home country with the jobs that we then give them in Denmark. It can, for example, be done. be difficult to translate a medical education from a Middle Eastern country into a Danish medical education; we place higher language requirements on people coming from outside the EU than on people coming from countries within the EU, for example. must work as a doctor. So there is a big difference in the way we already treat the people we take in. And no, I just don't recognize the premise if you are... Well, now I don't get to say any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112518	It's over now. Thank you very much to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205112537	What we are talking about is why Denmark is becoming more and more divided and why integration falls some easily, while others live in isolation without ever really becoming part of Danish society. And then we have to ask the questions: How do we help those girls at times, including the boys who are subjected to social control of their families? How do we make sure young boys don't end up in the gangs' clubs? And why are politicians blaming refugees and immigrants instead of using our energies to tackle the problems where they are? It is quite obvious, and it has also been part of the debate, that we have had decades, sometimes rather heated, foreign debate and legislative proposals after legislative proposals, but we are still leaving people out there more and more worried about whether integration problems can be solved. And we also leave large groups of citizens without education or jobs or believe in the future or that they are part of society. It worries me because I also hate to see how it divides us as a society. I feel like many other rapporteurs that I love Denmark, and there is only one Denmark, and everyone who lives here must be a part of society. Our community here is not about religion or skin color, but about the will to contribute with what you can. I think it was the Socialist rapporteur who said that we have only one set of rules. I fully agree with that. What I am fighting for is a society with space for many different backgrounds, with room for diversity, but that requires successful integration. We have not yet succeeded in doing so. Political leadership in this area has failed. It is also time for us to solve the problems of those who most need us to succeed, those who have the greatest problems, and also for those who actually believe that we can solve them. This requires complete honesty about the scale of the problems. No, we should not let everyone into Denmark. I don't think anyone ever meant that. We should never accept women's oppression or other forms of oppression, nor should we accept that there are people living on the edge of the labour market. And yes, we are in fact at risk of an ethnic underclass in a country that is otherwise known for its equality. But, of course, the world's best welfare society can make integration work. Of course we can if we really want to. So we have to start with the biggest challenges in our opinion: the children first. That is where it starts and where right now there is everything, too many in poverty. We need mixed schools, mixed kindergartens, mixed youth education, so that bilingual children are not isolated in the same institutions. So the kids. We need to recognise those who really take up opportunities, get through and into education, work: e.g. with easier access to citizenship for them, while those who encounter social control must have much better help and opportunity to get away, and those who choose the gangs must face rapid consequence and, moreover, help and support and protection when they choose to get out. And then more adults have to support themselves. Several rapporteurs have also mentioned this. No one should be able to receive cash benefits for years without giving anything in return. We need to have high expectations of each other from the first day we meet new people. That is what integration is all about. Then I should welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they could not be here and that they are also in favour of the proposal for adoption which the previous rapporteur read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113032	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments, and first of all it is from Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113035	Thanks for the speech. I noticed that the rapporteur did not use the word 'in' or'm', so there is also a fear of touch there in the Radical Left. I didn't expect that much else either. However, I am glad that the rapporteur believes that the problems should be addressed where they are and deal with them. I would very much like to do so. But without an analysis of what the problems are, it can be difficult to address them. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur about the cultural clashes that we see, for example. The Muhammed conflict, the drawing crisis, the cultural clashes in schools and high schools and on the streets of housing associations: how will the rapporteur actually tackle those problems and solve those problems? And does the rapporteur recognise that there is, of course, also a cultural and therefore also religious dimension to the cultural clashes?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113143	Now, as far as I remember, the speaking time to go through the analyses is limited up here. I mentioned three things for better integration: first, we need mixed schools, mixed kindergartens, mixed upper secondary schools and mixed residential areas. Because that is how we meet each other and secure ourselves from the cultural clashes that I fully recognise exist and occur. There are no forbidden words. We can say Islam, Islam, Muslims, Muslims from here, it just needs a justification that should, like, be some reason why we need to repeat them. I have absolutely no fear of touching them. There is nothing but debate about Muslims in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113232	I am pleased that the rapporteur dares to address the analysis of the origin of the cultural clashes. Thank you. It is good news that you can do it in the Radical Left. So just to clarify: does the rapporteur agree that there is a cultural clash between Christian or cultural Christian traditions and Islamic or cultural Islamic traditions in Denmark and that this is something that we have to deal with and find a strategy and action to integrate these groups of people in a sensible way in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113317	I have that attitude and I think it's experience-based and that's what analyses show, 'cause we have to deal with problems in concrete terms. Is there a clash of civilizations in Europe and Denmark? I do not think so. However, I believe that there are very specific problems which, for some, are based on some interpretations and some perceptions of what you come up with and what you think is right. And there is only one set of rules that applies in Denmark, and it is not religiously conditional in any way, not Islam, not any other region. That is the rule on which we have based our legislation, the constitution, and all the laws we have since passed and what we have endorsed internationally. That is what must apply, and everyone must know that. There are plenty of concrete integration challenges. I believe that we must solve them, and we only do so by solving them with all the many Muslim backgrounds who also contribute in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113432	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113433	We have to solve the problems, it's hard to disagree with. I cannot help thinking that there have been many politicians from the Radical Left over the years, also with a great deal of responsibility for the policies pursued, and have said the same thing, and one has to note that they have not succeeded. But I would really like to ask this question: if you recognise, as if it is a problem, that there is a large proportion of non-western in a school class and therefore want to spread people, why is it not a problem for society as a whole that there is a large proportion of many non-western?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113519-2	What is the problem is if we do not meet each other across differences and backgrounds. That is the big problem. And the best place to meet each other and exchange experiences and, incidentally, knowledge of Danish society is of course at school. Should Denmark be open to everyone forever? No, it shouldn't. Does the number of refugees coming to Denmark mean anything? Yes, it does. I'm preoccupied with solving the problems. Problems of integration are solved by meeting each other. Last time I checked, it was the rapporteur's minister who did not want to share in the distribution of youth education, although there is a very positive challenge here, namely that many, many more with other ethnic backgrounds have entered into youth education in Denmark. That's really good news. The problem is that they cannot get away from the places where they live and therefore, of course, they concentrate there because we have distribution mechanisms on the high schools that say they should be where they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113629-2	I do not particularly disagree with the Minister for Education, and I am not, because: what is the period of time we have to go back to, a period of time where there were far fewer non-westerns in Denmark and therefore also much fewer in classes around, where we did not also have so much integration problems? It was not the case that when there were fewer in the classes and fewer in society in general, integration worked just fantastic. On the contrary. The problems were just as great back then. Now we are doing something about it, and that is first and foremost because it is being tightened up and a strict immigration policy is being pursued, we are letting fewer people in. I understand that the Radical Left is backing that now. I am incredibly pleased to hear that it is a shift that you support the government's strict immigration policy, so there are not so many people going into Denmark because you recognise that the number means something. But I just cannot think of the period many years ago, when there were many fewer and where we did not also have huge integration problems, so I do not really believe in that solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113740	The second question is half a minute, not one and a half minutes. It's just like that, so we're just adjusting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113744	The rapporteur cannot speak on the Radical Left's position on the floor of Parliament. I can, because I'm the radical. And the rapporteur's minister will not be involved in mixing young people into youth education, will not help to change the fact that we can actually do something about that problem. That is the problem I am concerned with, and I think we should do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113810	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. I'd like to welcome Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205113826	I fully agree with the rapporteurs who have been asked to say that it is important that we do something about social control in certain immigrant environments here in Denmark; that we fight for women's equality; that we combat ghettoisation, which is a major problem, and therefore we were also involved in parts of the ghetto agreement; that we do something about primary school so that we do not get, if I may say so, a division between so-called white and brown schools. We fully agree that action must be taken in relation to this. This requires that you are ready for the set of values that applies here in Denmark and that it is part of this effort that we are going to do. What is the problem in the approach to this question is that the Danish People's Party is completely obsessed with religion and that it is believed that the regions are, like, the cause of many of these things and that this is what we need to address. That religion is the reason why Muslims in Denmark cannot be integrated is really what the Danish People's Party says. After all, this is an approach that is completely crooked. I think that instead of reading all sorts of theoretical books about Islam as I know you do, the Danish People's Party should try to look at the specific people we are dealing with here, where you will find out that there is as much difference between Muslims as there is between Christians and other groupings. In other words, one cannot cut everyone off and say that because there is a text of religion, it means that Muslims as a whole have difficulty integrating themselves. When it is said that we are in the middle of a fight, I could understand what Mrs Krarup said between Christians and Muslims, I have to say that if we look at Denmark today, modern Denmark, then it is marked by many different trends. Part of that is Christianity, I fully agree with that, but it is just as much socialism, the workers' movement, cultural radicalism, and within these different currents there are also various underflows. In the field of Christianity, there are officials who are missionaries who are Grundtvigians, there are all sorts of different trends that disagree with each other. Within the workers' movement there is the extreme left, there are Communists, there are Social Democrats, and there are SFs. We disagree on many things, but we cannot be cut over a comb. There are also different trends among cultural radicals. In other words, it is not such a firmly defined Denmark, which is at war with another religion, which is also not firmly defined, because within the Muslim world there are also different currents where it cannot be said that it is just the flow that is applicable. In other words, we need to see this much more complex, and we need to avoid these generalisations, which are constantly being talked about in this discussion, which makes it so difficult to come up with something sensible when it comes to discussing integration. I would like to ask the honourable rapporteurs from the bourgeois parties, and in particular the Danish People's Party: has it ever thought that the stigmatising of a religious group, as one does, when one constantly speaks ill of the Muslim population, always suggests that they cannot be integrated, that they are a problem, becomes an independent problem for integration, that they begin to perceive themselves as marginalised, as some people who are not in place, and that in themselves it makes it difficult for them to actually get into Danish society? Has it been thought that there might be a connection there? I do not know, but at any rate I have to say that this discussion seems to me to be completely off the rails. Yes, there are some cultural patterns that we have to deal with, which is a problem, yes, but they are cultural patterns which are based on some historical conditions and some societies from which they come, which are not like Western societies to which they come, and it is quite obvious that we should not allow ourselves to be guided by the values and standards they bring in; we have our standards. But to turn it into a matter of religion, I think it's completely wrong, and it's totally distorting this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114355	Thank you to the rapporteur and there is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114359	I am asked whether I have ever thought about the fact that stigmatisation and marginalisation of a reproached population with a particular religion can lead to less integration. I have thought that many times, it is the left's favorite argument, when they want to put themselves in the eye and deny that reality is as it is and until it is there to say: Well look around in all Western countries, how it has gone with the integration of Muslim minorities. It has gone the same way regardless of the climate of debate, regardless of the integration strategies. It has not succeeded. We are totally upset about such a completely deceptive rapporteur, as Mr Beyer de Ryke has said. Holger K. Nielsen has held, and it must be said that the rapporteur has reached an age where it is perhaps just impossible to get reality to penetrate. You've tried a lot of times. However, I am glad that the rapporteur says that immigrants must follow our cultural standards when they are in this country, because then we agree on the outcome. We simply disagree on the analysis, and there is apparently a little too socialist to be able to recognise that the superstructure also plays a role, that perhaps it is not the right analysis that it is the basis that determines everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114524	I would very much urge that we try to respect each other's views and take the dialogue I should like to greet and say from the President so that we do not make statements that are harsh. I'm just saying this because I think we're close now. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114541	Yeah, well, I'm older than Mrs. Marie Krarup, but that would be an argument against what I'm saying, I think I'm a little weird. It tends a bit to age fascism, but okay, Mrs. Krarup will have to go through that herself. But we disagree, yes, totally disagree, because it is such a narrow approach to an issue that I think it will be impossible to have a proper discussion. Yeah, well, that means there's a stigmatization going on. And yes, do you see the difficulties of integrating? Yes, you do, but it just doesn't have anything to do with their religion, and that religion should be brought into this is what we oppose. It has something to do with old cultural standards, something to do with coming from a society which is very different from what we know in our midst, and also with the fact that we have not adapted to modern forms of life, for example. Knows here in Denmark. That is true, and it is a problem that we must address, but it just has nothing to do with them being Muslims.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114659	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114700	But it has, and many people themselves say it has, that it is because of their religion that they cannot be part of the communities in which one has to enter if one wants to join Denmark, which is a great community. So it's just factually wrong. And although the rapporteur is older than I am, I would like to hope that it may be possible to get to grips with this issue. I believe there are many opportunities to gain knowledge and information in this area. Well, you can read the Koran, and you can understand what's actually happening outside our windows. There are so many ways to get it right and discover reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114748	You can read all kinds of things. I know that the Danish People's Party reads the Koran, reads all kinds of writings, and I don't know what. Let me give you an example: I have a son-in-law who is a Muslim. He drinks, he eats pork, he partys, he's just like all kinds of other Danish kids, and he's having Christmas Eve. There's one place where he's not integrated, and it's about eating roll sausage, he says. But otherwise he has completely embraced Danish standards. There's a lot of them. If you go out into society and look around, you will see that thousands of young Muslims have done so. In other words, they can do that even if they are Muslims, but it is not something that matters to them. They drink and so on, as all sorts of others do, no problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114839	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205114841	Well, statistics are generalizations. These are generalizations at scientific level, and no matter what statistics you take over a group, you can find exceptions. That's the way it is with statistics. It just muddles the debate crazy if you have to pull out a few examples every time you talk about statistics and say that the person doesn't fit into the statistics. We all know the people that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen talks about here. But it is a diversion if you use those examples to talk about the obvious problems that are when we dive into the statistics. I think it is extremely unfortunate, and I really think it is to do those who are doing very well, a huge disservice if you use them as a diversion for a debate that is about what we should do about the big problems you can see Nielsen Well listen here...) I finish my question. I have to say that I find this extremely regrettable, because then we will not come to the solutions, and that is where we are going. And I just think that the SF too often gets in the way and does not want to be part of the things that we can then say work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115007-2	Well, listen: The statistics don't say whether the conditions described are due to the fact that they are Muslims, do they? What we're discussing is the explanation models that are for this. Is it due to religion, or is it due to other circumstances? Well, I'd like to know if Mr. Knox's gonna be okay. Joachim B. Olsen, who is so concerned with statistics, can find statistical evidence that it is their religious belief that they have these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115035	Well, what you can just see is that when you look at these statistics, where you can find lots of exceptions... that's how it is with statistics... then the big problems are where it's about immigration from Middle Eastern countries, all of which are Muslim. Does this have nothing to do with Islam? No, I don't think it has, but it's a big part of it. So, the cultural background and the standards you have with you are shaped by the society you come from, and here we are talking about societies where religion plays a far, far greater role than it does in Danish society. And then I just think it's weird to completely deny that it has something to do with religion when you grow up in a culture where you have a religion of law that says how to behave. I just don't think that makes much sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115120	If we go back to the statistics, I can say that when I read statistics at the time, one of the first things you were told is that there is a difference between a correlation and a causality, i.e. that the fact that there is a correlation does not mean that there is a causal explanation. Okay, sir. Joachim B. Olsen is nodding. I'm glad he does, so that's where we agree. But religion matters. It matters, but the question is how much it means. The problem here is that with the Danish People's Party and apparently also with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen means everything. That is what we are discussing here today. Well, that's what we're discussing. Mrs Marie Krarup speaks of a war of religion that Muslims cannot be integrated. This is the whole approach of the Danish People's Party, namely that we are in a religious war. That's fucked up. That's what this is about. This is about some cultural standards, some old-fashioned standards that we have to deal with, combat, and that is what we are trying to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115218	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. I know that you get so preoccupied with this debate that everyone is both for and against it, but we try to share it as fairly as we can at all, both with the technique and with our common help. Welcome to the next rapporteur, Mr. Nase Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115242	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for a relevant debate. I think it is important that we constantly try to distinguish between asylum and refugee policy and immigration policy. Immigration policy has much to do with what our companies need from labour. They must have the manpower they need, and people who want Denmark and want to contribute must be given the opportunity to do so. As far as asylum policy is concerned, we in Conservatives believe that it is important that, as a starting point, we stick to temporaryity. If you come and get asylum, the starting point is temporary until there is peace at home, so that you can return home and help build the country from which you have fled. The other thing that is also important is that we bring refugees from the camps ourselves, rather than that they themselves come with the help of traffickers. As far as the number of those who come is concerned, of course it has a role to play. Integration, the economy, cohesion are very dependent on the number. That is why we are pleased with the austerity that has been achieved, so that we now have control of the number. As far as integration is concerned, Denmark is not a multicultural country but a multiethnic country. What dominates Denmark is Danish culture and the Danish values of freedom. Multiculturalism is, of course, that all values and cultures are equal, and I totally disagree with that, because, in my view, democratic values are best. In terms of integration, it is extremely important that we walk on two legs. Those who are integrated, those who contribute, those who show a sense of belonging and loyalty, we must be approachable to, and there is a part of them. Unfortunately, they keep their doors quiet, but there's a lot that contributes to this society and that's Danes with different backgrounds. But I also recognise that there are some who are here physically, but who are mentally in a completely different place and who do not contribute. Some are outside the labour market. Among some groups, it is a majority who are outside the labour market and on some form of public support. It's bad for them, it's bad for their kids, it's bad for our society. That is why I think that the austerity that has taken place in terms of getting people to contribute to this society has been appropriate. In some areas the dialogue has failed. We have had dialogue and dialogue, it has not helped, and that is why we have had to make some of the restrictions that have been here in recent years. I think that getting rid of the ghettos at some point is really, really sensible. It's the best way to be integrated into this society and to be a minority. The ghettos are unfortunately high levels of unemployment, social control, crime and fundamentalism. The goal must be to get rid of those ghettos. Then we come to the central issue of the debate, and that is Islam and the Islamists. Is Islam a problem? Depends on what you have in Islam. There are many who are secular, there are many who are cultural Muslims, there are many who are pragmatic, there are very many who keep their religion as something private, and they do not part with it, and therefore it also works. One can be integrated and Muslim and Dane at the same time. It's a matter of will. But if Islam is turned into something fanatical, extreme, literal, it can cause some integration problems, it is quite clear, right from the moment they are small. In my circle I have been told about someone who goes to primary school, who told me that a comrade in the class was complaining very, very much after the teacher had shown a video of what it's like to get into puberty, and said: "You can't see that for my religion. If you have that attitude already in the small classes, then you will have problems with further integration. So if you're very literal, it can set your feet for your own integration. There you have to challenge those people. The teacher must challenge a student and the learner's parents in relation to such a position. Then there is the great thing, i.e. the thing about Islamism and political Islam and extremism. Unfortunately, we are one of the countries with a great many extremists. Hizb ut-Tahrir, which is an extreme organisation, is the second largest in Western Europe after Great Britain, and one might ask why that is so. Now Hizb ut-Tahrir is not known for committing violence, but their vision society is the caliphate, and the experience tells us that part of those who have gone to Syria and fought with Islamic State and others started their career in goose eyes in Hizb ut-Tahrir, and in that way they in my view dangerous. Unfortunately, we are the country next to Belgium, which has had the most people who have gone to Syria and fought there. But we have tried to tighten up on those who have gone to Syria, we have tried to tighten up on the Imams, we have tried to tighten up on the extreme mosques, and we must continue to do so as long as we face challenges on this side.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115851	Thank you, sir. Nase Khader. There are no brief comments. Then we have come to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who will honor us with his presence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205115908	Thank you for the debate here today, which I really think has been both good but also necessary in a great many ways. It has to be said that the problem of the adaptation of non-western immigrants to European societies is not a Danish phenomenon, it is a European phenomenon. And now there has been a little debate about whether it is Muslims in particular who find it difficult to settle in and thus adapt to free European societies, and it has to be said: yes, it is. Well, I think that's as good as it is. There are, of course, some points on which progress is fortunately being made, and I think that is very much because we have just begun to make real demands on the people who come here, that we should both support ourselves, but also adapt to a greater extent than we have dared to demand in the past. When you look at employment, it goes forward, of course. I think that is very easy to see. In my opinion, this is linked to the fact that we have dared to demand that we support ourselves, but we have also set up our system of benefits afterwards, so that we get to integration benefits when we arrive here; that we have a ceiling on cash benefits; that we have a 225-hour rule on everything, you might say, elements that push people into the labour market. It is not a party to be in the service of integration, nor should it be because you have to support yourself when you come here. Then there is the value plan, and that is where we can see that there are some challenges. And now I just noticed that the Alternative's rapporteur said that things are actually moving forward in relation to being free to choose a boyfriend or spouse who was 9%. Few who felt compelled to choose a spouse or where, for example, The family had to choose a spouse or girlfriend. Well, if we just translate it into Danish, we would accept that there was about 20%. by the Danes who said: No, I can't choose my spouse or my girlfriend myself? We would then be delighted that there were 9 per cent. less this year who said they were under pressure? I don't think so. This is something in which I think it is quite wrong that we do not have the courage to discuss the problems. If we look at the financial bill for non-western immigration, it is of course about 36 billion. kr. per years, we figured out. And you can say that is a high price; it is a bill that can be difficult to pay. But it is also an area in which we can actually do something, in other words precisely by adapting our benefit system accordingly, so that it pays to work; so that we force people into the labour market. This requires some will, and fortunately there are a number of parties in the Danish Parliament who want to do so, for example. with a low integration benefit, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule to name just some elements. But next to the financial bill there is a value bill, and if the financial bill can be difficult to pay, it has to be said that then the value bill can be almost priceless if we do nothing. It is a bill whose foundation, one can say, rests on the fact that there are simply too many people who deny the very foundation, which Denmark is founded on, a foundation that generations before us have laid, which means that here you can believe in the god you want; you can write what you mean; you can draw what you can, and you can also have it printed in the newspaper, and in very special cases you can also have your drawings hung up in museums, just not right in Viborg, but elsewhere you can possibly. And here there is complete equality between the sexes. Girls and boys, women and men are worth no less. It has to be said that if there is a slip and it has happened when it comes to the foundation itself, then I actually believe that we have a bill that can be almost priceless. And that is why, of course, we have to be absolutely firm that when you are here, you have to take Denmark to heart, you have to take the foundation to heart. And then you can build your own life on top of that foundation, but you just can't break the foundation. But it takes some will, and it has to be said that there are too many parties here in the Danish Parliament, I think, who just sit back and rejoice that now there is 9 per cent. Few who can't choose their boyfriend or spouse for themselves that it's going a tiny bit forward. But honestly, if it's about 20% that doesn't decide who they want to share their lives with, I actually think we have a huge problem. And I'm worried that somehow you close your eyes a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120457	There is a brief comment. There are so many things that need to fit together, and we're trying to get everything going. There is one questioner, Mrs Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120505	Thanks for the speech. I am pleased that the Minister used the word'm' in the second place and thus showed the will to look at and analyse reality. This is extremely important. One of the things I am calling for is a clear and clear strategy towards all immigrants and descendants that the standards we have in Denmark need to be taken into account in concrete and practical terms. We should not have special considerations and not accept Islamisation. But when I meet people in the integration industry, there are many of those who work there who do not have the impression that this is the way to act. What will the Minister do about it? It seems to me that there may be a consensus here among some political parties that it should be in a certain way, but when you get into the real reality, it is just not what is being implemented at least not everywhere. What can you do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120609	It is really a very, very big question. If it were simple, I think we would have done it, because we kind of agree where we want to go. However, I still believe that a very clear debate and some very clear demands are an important part of this, even on the part of the Danish Parliament. Then you could rightly say, if you were now Mrs Krarup, that we should not just go in and prevent it from happening, for example. to say that there must be no gender-based swimming instruction, that there must be pork in the institutions and that special requirements must not be imposed in this way? I think that we should be aware of the fact that, for example, we are somehow depriving ourselves of the right to do so. the municipal authorities are responsible for the debate and the defence of the very foundations of it. So I would be sorry to have to go in and legislate on these matters, although I must also say that if it goes on like this, it may at some point be necessary. But I just don't think we're there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120717	I think that we have been there for years because it is precisely not certain that the same precise and concrete requirements are being made everywhere for those who want to stay here. It is really to abandon those people, because they will not get a chance to get by in Danish society if they do not get an understanding that they have to behave in a Danish way and become Danish. So I would quite clearly call for the spoon to be taken into the other hand, but this is also evident from the many resolutions tabled by the Danish People's Party over time in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120759	You know, way down the road, we agree on some of these things. The problem is just, I think, if we say that we are going in and, for example, we are going in. legislation on some of the things that have been under discussion here today... Christmas trees, gender-separated swimming, all these things... you can quickly disclaim responsibility in everyday life. And I really believe that we all have an obligation to defend the very foundations of the freedoms on which Denmark is built. This applies both to the head of the institution and to the board of the institution, and to the municipal council. That applies to all of us. I just think that, if we go in and legislate, we can quickly point to Christiansborg and say that it was also they who decided it, but I would have done some gender-separated swimming if that was what was needed, but we must no longer do that. In fact, I believe that we will be strengthened if we dare to take that debate on a daily basis too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120859	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no more brief comments, but there is one person who wishes to speak for the second round, namely Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205120919	Thank you. I just have to read out our revised text of adoption, because it was the case that we had not just been so precise with the word count, so we had made an overly long text for adoption. Now it has been shortened, and for the sake of good order, I am reading the text of adoption here on behalf of the Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left and SF. Proposals for adoption It is the view of the Danish Parliament that the integration of temporary or permanent displaced refugees fails to involve significant costs for both society and the individual. The Danish Parliament therefore strongly opposes the stated intention in the Danish Finance Act 2019 to stop integrating refugees into Danish society as long as they are in Denmark. Good integration and the ability of refugees to make their own lives with perspective and self-sufficiency create security for all. The Danish Parliament also notes that the proposed reduction in the benefits of integration represents a dispute with the principle that all people in Denmark must have a decent basis of living. In Denmark, everyone should have the right to a decent accommodation and an income that can cover basic necessities. The proposed reduction in the benefits of integration for both single and child families will have disastrous consequences for integration and for families. As a result, the Danish Parliament is recommending that the plans for a reduction in the benefits of integration be abandoned. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20181205121038	Thank you. And since a proposal for adoption is to be included in the negotiations, I should like to ask whether there are some who wish to speak again on the basis of the text which has now been put forward. There isn't. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 6 December 2018. Then I will tell you that we will suspend the debate until 8 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: F 22, and that questions to the ministers are at 10 a.m. 15.00 this afternoon. This, for everyone to prepare for how the day will go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205130002	The sitting is resumed. Today there is the following review: Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate (Lars Christian Lilleholt): Bill no. L 119 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181205130025	I would point out that in the form we are now using, it is so that one question can be put to the minister concerned, and that is only one. And then you move on. This can therefore be addressed to the Prime Minister before we move on to the Minister of Integration. It is the rapporteur who has that opportunity. Then we start by giving the floor to Mr. Martin Henriksen, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205130107	Thank you. The reason why we in the Danish People's Party have raised this urgent question is, of course, that Denmark and the government are ready to accede to the UN Migration Pact "Global Compact for Migration," as it is so finely called. There are several things in it, and I really intended to read out a little from this statement to give people a sense of why we think this is a bad statement. It says, among other things, that immigration is recognised as a source of prosperity, innovation and portable development. That is simply not true. Well, that's kind of wrong, isn't it? It is, of course, a view that we have in the Danish People's Party, and so we thought that it was at least a far-reaching view that the government shared with the Danish People's Party. Then it says, among other things. in the declaration, and now I read up and quote: we commit ourselves, in other words Denmark, to adapting opportunities and ways to regulated migration in a way that supports labour mobility and human dignity, and that reflects demographic conditions and working conditions, optimizes educational opportunities, maintains the right to family life, etc. etc. I find it difficult to interpret it in another way; it is a clear call for increased immigration, for increased migration. What the hell else would it be? The declaration also states that access to procedures for the family reunification of migrants at all levels must be facilitated by appropriate measures guaranteeing the right to family life and the child's best interests, by reviewing and reviewing the applicable requirements, including income, language, length of stay, etc. etc. We in the Danish People's Party find this difficult to regard as anything other than another call for increased immigration. Then it also says that we must promote mutual respect for cultures and traditions and customs, and we must promote respect for the culture of migrants, etc., among other things. in the countries to which they come. It says that multicultural activities must be supported through sports, music, art, festivals, volunteering and other social events that will strengthen mutual understanding and recognition of, among others. the culture of migrants. I find it difficult to see this as anything other than a political course that runs counter to the debate we have here in Denmark. This certainly does not reflect the position of the Danish People's Party. This calls into question the current policy on foreigners. This is in vertical conflict with the foreign and integration policy pursued in Denmark. In addition to this, there are other issues, such as: calls for public support not to be given to media which, for example, promote intolerance, and how should this be seen? There are many different views on this. So in many ways, we think this is a statement that Denmark should stay away from. That is why we have asked for an urgent request.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205130417	Thank you. That is so well-founded now, at least a little over time. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 6 December 2018. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205130438	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question, which I think is very timely. Since 2015, the government has been pursuing a strict and consistent policy of aliens, a policy that is necessary, a policy that works, a policy that we stand by. Last year, the number of asylum seekers was the lowest since 2008, and this year the figure is just as low, and as recently as last Friday we have concluded a financial agreement for next year, where we are further tightening foreign policy together with the Danish People's Party. The Finance Act contains a new approach with a focus on temporaryity and repatriation, and we send a clear signal that refugees' stay in Denmark is temporary and a clear signal that foreigners who do not have a basis for being in Denmark are being sent home. So this government, my government, is the guarantor of a foreign policy in which we look after Denmark. I mention this here at the start of the question, because it is a completely absurd idea that we should be on our way to joining a document, a declaration that would limit our freedom to pursue that particular policy. So let me make it clear from the outset: the UN Declaration on Migration is not legally binding, it does not create new law in Denmark, it does not deprive us of sovereignty over the territory of foreigners, it does not change a comma in Danish immigration policy, Denmark already complies with the commitments made by states with the Declaration, and it is commitments that we have every interest in other states too, but we are therefore not committing ourselves to anything new. Of course, there are several sections in the document which we would probably have written differently if it were only up to ourselves, but it is not, because there were 192 countries sitting around the table. This is true, for example. Some of what it says about media support. But let me be quite clear: the UN Declaration will not change one millimetre of freedom of expression in Denmark. If the declaration is not legally binding, what does it mean, why should we join in? Yes, we do, because international cooperation on cross-border problems is absolutely necessary. Just as firm I am on our own strict immigration policy, I am equally aware that illegal migration is an international problem which, alongside the policy we are pursuing here at home, also requires international cooperation. This applies, for example, when we need other countries to withdraw their own citizens. That's something we use a lot of energy on. This declaration is the first of its kind which broadly recognises that states have an obligation to take back their own nationals. It is not a new commitment created by the declaration, but the declaration recognises that the commitment exists and that is something we can and that we are going to use actively in our deployment efforts. The declaration is also an important signal of the importance of cooperation in a world where cooperation is under pressure. We see a Russia that is increasingly aggressive, a China that is filling ever more economically and politically, a Middle East where conflicts and poverty are sending people to flee, and in the United States the country of dreams is dreaming of fewer international obligations and more just about itself. So we live in a world characterised by break-up, and there we have to ask ourselves: Where do we belong, and what do Denmark's interests best serve? I have no doubt, international cooperation has never been more important. Denmark has a strong interest in an international order where large countries cannot bully the small ones and where the regular countries such as Denmark are not overrun by countries that deny their responsibilities. We do not get any less from working with others; on the contrary, we are getting bigger. Then there are some countries, a few countries, which have chosen to be outside the scope of the declaration. I do not think that Denmark belongs in that circle, and therefore the UN Declaration is also, for me, a symbol of whether or not you want to be part of an internationally responsible society. Denmark must be involved, we must be able to see ourselves in the mirror, and we must recognise the reflection we see: a country with responsibility, a country with vision and a willingness to cooperate. I must honestly say that I am appalled by the extent of false or directly incorrect information that has been spread about the content of the UN Declaration. It is very difficult to see the connection between the hot atmosphere on the web and the real world. The fiction has run completely away from the facts. The government wants an enlightened debate based on solid facts and our own established values. The Government has presented a legal assessment of the declaration, an assessment which the Folketing has received. From the legal assessment it is crystal clear that the UN Declaration is not legally binding, that it does not impose new legal obligations on countries and that Denmark continues to determine our own policy on foreigners sovereignly. This will also be reflected in the explanation of vote which the government will give when the declaration is adopted. Since 2015, the government has pursued a strict and consistent policy on foreigners, and we will do so accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131027	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this. The model of the question is, of course, now that one brief remark can be made by the rapporteurs, and in the case of the Danish People's Party it is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131039	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Prime Minister for the first answer here. It's important to have this debate. This may suggest that there has been an internal criticism in the government of what it is actually dealing with. Well, it seems like you're having a hard time figuring out who's gonna attend this Marrakesh meeting next week, where you're gonna have to say yes on behalf of Denmark or take part in this ceremony about the declaration. After all, it is a meeting in which I understand that both German Chancellor Merkel and French President Macron have announced their participation. At home, the media have been able to describe the idea that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration should perhaps take part in the meeting. Then she said in the media the other day that she couldn't see herself in it. She then says in Jyllands-Posten today to the question whether she should participate, that no, she should not. So it is about to be the case that Denmark does not have a representative at all to present to the meeting, because then it may be that we resolve the matter in this way and that things will be as they should be, namely that Denmark does not subscribe to a declaration which, of course, also contains some perspectives one can be for or against. That is why we are making a statement; it is not because it is completely meaningless; it is because it has a content which some, even in the African world, think becomes the norm for what the international rules of the game will be like in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131158	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131159	Of course, Denmark participates in the Marrakesh conference on Monday and Tuesday, and Denmark participates at ministerial level. I have not yet taken a position on the Minister who is taking part or whether I myself might do so. I'm assessing that these days, and I'm assessing that, among other things. in the light of the representation with which other countries meet. And a clear pattern emerges from the fact that, with very few exceptions, the European countries are meeting with a minister, and so is Denmark. Alternatively, if the picture had been slightly different, we would probably have met with a member of the Executive Board from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we are meeting in with a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131242	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131244	Now I think that there was such a rather dull mood, and that is why I would just like to start by expressing unreserved praise to the government, because I understand that along the way, too, the EU has played an active role in promoting the fact that this statement has been made. This is hardly a change in the course of the world, but it is nevertheless an expression of what I agree with the Prime Minister, namely that there are only international solutions to this, and that is why it is good that we have a framework in which to discuss it. That is why I would just like to stick to what is stated in the declaration and which Mr. Martin Henriksen also read out at the beginning, namely that there are also positive aspects of migration. The Prime Minister himself works to ensure that there is a better opportunity to come to Denmark to work, and those who come to Denmark to work contribute to our welfare. I just want to ask the Prime Minister: when there is talk of disinformation, for example. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl writes that this will be to the disadvantage of Denmark and can only contribute to an increase in the number of migrants, so it must still be so that it is misinformation, because what decides who comes to Denmark is Denmark. And if we want more positive results from migration, we can, for example, do it. agree to let more foreigners come to Denmark and work and pay taxes. But it's disinformation when mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl tells the Danes that signing this declaration will lead to more migrants in Denmark unless we decide for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131412	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131413	That's right. There is nothing in the declaration that makes it impossible for us to maintain control of who we are letting into Denmark ourselves. I think there is a need to clarify the concepts: there are refugees, and that is not at all a matter for discussion here, because this has nothing to do with refugees; then there are migrants, and they exist in two kinds, you might say, in general terms, legal and illegal. And I believe that there are some 254 million migrants in the world community today, where they 90%. are legally resident in the countries in which they are located. And 10%. Stays so illegal. It is very important to distinguish between the two groups. The document could have made that clearer in its language, and that is one of them. one of the reasons why Denmark is giving an explanation of vote, in which we will have it clarified. Because we must combat illegal migration. And that is also why it is so important for the countries that generate migrants, whether legal or illegal, to repeat what is already an obligation under international law but is not being complied with, namely that you have to take your own citizens home. It is, of course, set aside for us to be able to control who is in Denmark. We're pursuing a little bit of politics. We are trying to pursue an active repatriation policy. We are being restricted by countries that refuse to take their own citizens back home, and it is important that those countries reaffirm what is actually a legal obligation today. This is something we can use offensively to get the illegal migrants out of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131538	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131540	Thank you and thank you for your reply. The Prime Minister is appalled by the debate. Perhaps the confusion in the people and perhaps also in the Chamber is due to the course we have been through, where we can read on the front page of the newspapers that there is uncertainty as to who should participate from the government. The day before we are going to have this debate, we will have the legal clarification from the government where we can see that the government's own rapporteur has spoken against the declaration. I do not think the government has dealt with this very impressively, so I would really like to ask: does the Prime Minister recognise that one of the reasons for this rather confusing debate and confusion is that the government has fumbled in this process and that we are now standing here the week before the government is going to Morocco and still have total confusion about what is really the content of what we are discussing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131626	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131627	No, I don't recognize that at all. It is the case that the Folketing has a full insight into this whole process by briefings from the Minister for Development, by Danish MPs having participated as delegates at the UN General Assembly, and by the conciliation circle with the Minister for Development both during the negotiations and when the negotiations were concluded, was briefed on the content of it. So I don't recognize that at all. What I recognise is that, with an accelerating effect in recent months, there has been a debate which, in other words, was absolutely starting on social media and was first moved into what might be called the open public debate just a few weeks ago. This has meant that the way in which the public debate has been conducted is windy and crooked, in other words where myths and misinformation have completely wiped out the facts. It is in this way on the basis that I have set myself in the lead, starting with a meeting at Marienborg with liberal prime minister candidates from Europe, to get a little grip on this issue, among other things. by working to ensure that there is now an explanation of vote which takes Danish views into account, but which hopefully can also be anchored in like-minded countries around Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131744	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131745	Thank you, Prime Minister. I still think there is such a strange defensive starting point. Why does the Prime Minister not say that the reason why we have to make such a statement and that it is important is that there are millions and millions of legitimate migrant workers around the world who are being abused, who are being held under slave-like conditions, who are being deprived of their passports, who are being tortured, for example. in Saudi Arabia, and that it is important to get this statement, for example. Danish companies can have fair competition so that people are not used as slave workers, including in the EU, where, after the last figures, there are up to one million slave workers, mainly migrants? Why doesn't the Prime Minister say that as the starting point for this debate instead of such a little yes, yes? That is what this debate is about, and that is why this statement is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131837	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205131838	That is also what the debate is about. And, in fact, I agree with the speech that was made by Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard's side was no problem in that. I do not know whether it is defensive to deal with the criticism that is being raised. Well, it's certainly not an attempt to appear defensive. I can only note that there is a voice in the debate on social media that has tried to characterise this agreement as an agreement that makes us suddenly just opening up Denmark. There's a countdown for treason on my Twitter account, and that's why I'm starting to clarify what this is and what it's not. That is quite right, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard says that there are millions of legal migrants, and this is a global agreement that not only seeks to influence the way we handle things in Denmark, but to influence the world community, is not true. Then a picture is created that because you try to deal with global problems, it puts Denmark in a completely different place. It does not, and it is just important to establish it. It is important to get the nuance in that there is legal migration, which is it is positive when the Folketing itself decides that foreign students can come to Denmark and read and travel home again and get a relationship with Denmark. It is a good thing when the Danish Parliament decides and I would like to see us liberalising it a little, but let it be that we have positive lists and payment schemes that allow people to come to Denmark and contribute completely legally and make Denmark richer. It is not this agreement that this declaration seeks, for the first time, to create a new international framework for dealing with it, and that is at the heart of it. It is not perfect, but that is the perfect document we would never be able to get the world community to support, for then 192 countries would sit and write their own editions. It is, after all, like the price that international cooperation brings. But my overall assessment is that this puts Denmark better in our work to have control of Denmark, let them in, we want, keep them out, we don't want.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132043	Then we'll thank the PM for the first round. The next to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. One question can then again be put to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132101	Thank you. It is clear from the UN Declaration on Migration that we can distinguish between regular and irregular migrants, for example. in relation to entry, residence and work, and which migrants have the rights and obligations. This is entirely in line with government policy. It is also quite clear that refugees and economic migrants are two different groups. They alone have human rights in common. Refugees must be protected, irregular migrants must be sent home. It is Danish politics, and it is government policy. In addition, for the first time in an EU declaration, it is recognised that all countries are obliged to withdraw their own citizens and that countries must assist in promoting that readmission. This is largely government policy. And that is something that we are convinced of in the long term can help to promote this difficult agenda on readmission with countries that are usually reluctant on this point. But there are places in the declaration where the message is less clear. Here the cross-cutting principles of the declaration are important to keep an eye on. One of them concerns the right of the country to decide for itself which and how many foreigners you want to have in the country as workers or students, and it is essential to make it clear that the declaration does not in any way deprive us of the right to decide for ourselves who or how many people are going to enter Denmark. It remains a national competence and, of course, it must continue to be so. And I really do not think anyone can be in doubt that that is exactly what this government stands for. Something else is so that we in the Folketing do not always agree on this issue. For example: We couldn't agree on how we would attract foreign labour. In fact, it is also clear from the declaration that we must, of course, demand foreigners to comply with the laws of the country and respect our national customs, and of course the government agrees that we must be able to do so. I could give you many examples, but I would just like to mention some of them here, namely that we must, of course, ensure that we respect freedom of expression and of the press. It is a matter of course that we must strengthen the fight against traffickers and traffickers in human beings, that we must strengthen border controls and ensure the security of our country, among other things. prevent illegal migration and that we must be able to maintain the detention of irregular migrants. In fact, I understand that there is a debate on the declaration in such a central political area as this, and I would also like to say quite openly that if we had been able to write the migration declaration ourselves, it would have looked different, but then there would have been no joint declaration either. But it is important to make it clear once again that the declaration is by no means a bomb under Danish foreign policy. So when some claim that the declaration obliges Denmark to do anything other than what we decide here in the Folketing, it is not correct and there is no justification for that claim in the statement itself. However, as I said, the migration declaration is not perfect, and it is far from being easily legible. That is why I think it is very good to have a question debate like this one today. Nor should there be any doubt about the Danish reading of the declaration. That is why we have also had in mind from a very early stage in this negotiation process that Denmark, together with a group of like-minded countries, might be able to indicate our reading of the declaration, and we will do so by giving a so-called explanation of vote in New York when the declaration is formally adopted there. Will the migration declaration solve all the problems of illegal migration? No, of course it won't. Nor will it be the case that tomorrow we will wake up to a new and better world. The declaration is an expression of what I would call the policy of small steps. We need to strengthen dialogue and cross-border cooperation if we want to put an end to illegal migration, and we want to do so. We want to put an end to illegal migration. And the UN Declaration on Migration is, in fact, a very good first framework for that. I can guarantee that as a minister I will use the declaration actively to promote Danish priorities and, above all, when it comes to the area of return. In fact, I believe that precisely that agenda is an agenda that many parties in this Parliament can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132650	I should like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. And we go back out in the second row and find the questioner, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132656	Thank you. And thank the Minister for her part of the answer here. It seems that the government has chosen a strategy which draws out the parts of the declaration that can be said to be positive. And we are delighted that it will be of great importance that we now have this declaration. Then we can get, for example. some African countries to take back their own citizens. On the other hand, the Danish people are told that those parts of the declaration which you know can be deeply annoying for Denmark and which may cause problems in terms of freedom of expression and things and matters, nothing means that the declaration is not legally binding and that it is completely indifferent. It's kind of hard to make sense that it can be both at the same time. Isn't it just like that? The counsellor on migration issues for the African Union has announced it's 55 African countries, and as shown by the Jyllands-Posten, where he says: "It will have significant legal effects... It begins with soft principles, but such UN initiatives bring moral obligations that become a global norm for how laws are to be interpreted..."? Isn't that just the way it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132759	No, actually, I disagree with Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl i. But that is, of course, one of the reasons why we, one might say, have had a very thorough legal assessment of this. After all, it has been sent to the Folketing a little late, so there must of course also be time to examine it. But there I do not think it is clear that this is precisely the case that this is not legally binding. And that is why we will not be able to see that this will have an impact on the policy that we are going to pursue in the Danish Parliament. We can continue to decide, as the Prime Minister also said, on the immigration policy that we are now going to pursue here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132849	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132852	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. Well, I have, too, like Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, read in the press that the Minister will not attend Marrakech. At the same time, we hear from the Prime Minister that there will be a Danish participation at ministerial level. I think that is a good thing, but at the same time I also think that it does not matter which minister we send to Marrakech, because there are probably some resort areas that have less relevance to this area than others. So I would just like to ask the Minister whether it is still the case that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will not participate in Marrakech.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132926	After all, the Prime Minister has already said that there will be participation at ministerial level, and I really do not think I have much more to add to that matter right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132938	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205132939	With the broad support of the Danish Parliament, it might be a consideration to send the President of the Danish Parliament, but it is not certain that she has time but back to the declaration and its content. What I hear the Minister say today is, of course, as can be seen from the papers sent over that Denmark has actively worked to promote this declaration in order to strengthen international cooperation. I also think that the Prime Minister rightly said that if you do not want to join us here, it is because you somehow turn your back on the international community and do not see it as part of the solution to this. That is why I think it would be a good thing if the Minister were to take credit for the work that has now been done, with some enthusiasm. Kristian Thulesen Dahl probably has a point in saying that it is a little strange to work to promote a statement, because it is believed that it strengthens international cooperation to provide better solutions than those we have seen to address migration challenges and then at the same time spends all its energy saying that it is not something that commits us. So, I guess it's supposed that, with Denmark joining this document, it also intends to promote the intentions in the broadest sense. So I guess it's the point of working to get a statement that you welcome the result and hope that you can reap the fruits of it. And then it is strange that the Minister for Integration, who is faced with all the problems of lack of international cooperation, is standing here today saying: well, the most important thing to be told is that it has no meaning for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133109	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133110	Well, that is important in terms of repatriation policy, for example, and I think that is worth welcoming. But it is equally clear that we will then give a tough explanation of vote, if you will, when we come to New York at that time. And that is because we want to defend freedom of expression in Denmark, for example. We will then make it quite clear, as the Declaration also states, that foreign policy is therefore determined by ourselves. So it is not something to be decided by the UN. It has to be the case, of course, that you make your position perfectly clear, and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133152	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133154	I think the Prime Minister made a very fine and committed speech defending this Global Compact. I think that the tone of the Minister for Integration was somewhat different, because she, like her, focused solely on what this is going to have with problems and consequences for Danish immigration policy. Would she not agree that the important thing in this matter is not the Danish immigration policy? It is that at global level in the United Nations it has been decided that this is an international problem? It has been decided that international solutions are needed. It has been decided that when it comes to migrants and refugees, there are challenges, there are difficulties, there are opportunities and rights must be granted and different things must be done in relation to it and that it is again a global and international problem. This isn't just about Denmark. It is also about Africa, to which there is much more migration and many more refugees than there are here in Europe. In Latin America, people are currently fleeing Venezuela and elsewhere. And Asia. In other words, we are talking about global problems here. Was it not then an idea that we here in the Folketing as little as our own nose tip and looked at it as it is? And just as the Prime Minister says, there may be some wordings that we disagree with. Yes, but this is due to the fact that there are 194 Member States around the table. When you know a little about what it's like to make it run together, you know that when there are so many countries, so many players and agree on a text, there will always be some things that can be interpreted in different ways. But what matters is not the interpretations. What matters isn't the stickcutter. What matters is that we agree that we now have an agreement to deal with this together. Should we not go out more offensively and actively to say so to the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133349	Well, nobody is hiding that migration is an international global problem. I have not heard a single one say that. Even those who could be very critical of the document here also fully recognise migration as a global problem. But that does not mean that one cannot point out that Danish foreign policy must of course be decided here in the Folketing. That's the way it has to be. And that does not mean that we should not point out the weaknesses that there are too, that is to say the areas which clearly need to be clarified, so that we can also make clear how we read this document. That is what we are doing in the explanation of vote that we will be giving when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133439	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133441	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on some of that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned, because I do not think that the Minister's speech will help clarify matters here. On the one hand, the Minister says that this will be important in relation to our repatriation policy, and on the other hand, the Minister says that we are deciding our own policy on foreigners. Is it the legal assessment that has been sent to the Folketing, which says that there are no legal obligations in this, that it has no meaning and that it is not a convention that binds any country to anything, or is it what the Minister is saying today that it will strengthen our ability to send people home? We cannot both blow and have flour in our mouths: either this is legally binding or it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133524	This is not legally binding, and again it is late for the legal review of the matter to come to the Folketing, and I think it will provide clarity once it has been examined, because it is actually very, very clear in the paper that has been sent over. But that does not change the fact that it is important to have this discussion with the African countries. After all, I have tried on my own behalf to sit before African leaders and implement such repatriation agreements, and this is not an easy matter. But the fact that a pen has now been put on paper about precisely the fact that you are obliged to withdraw your own citizens and that you confirm that with this agreement, I think it is absolutely, absolutely essential. It just doesn't change the fact that this isn't going to create new legislation in Denmark. This is not a bomb under Danish foreign policy. Again, I believe that once the legal assessment has been read through here, it will provide some clarity. Of course, the parties have not had so much time for this today, but it will then come afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133636	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Then we have the question answered by two ministers and then we go to the negotiations. The first is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205133651	Thank you for that, and thank you to the two ministers, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, for their reply. In December, the government is about to sign and accede to the UN Migration Pact. And basically, the Pact must be seen as a distant and deeply ideological battle against the nation state. We believe that Denmark as a nation with a long and proud history should refrain from doing so. Not the least degree of recognition of the obvious negative consequences of migration, for which immigration has had, among other things, an impact. Europe has found its way to the political wording of the agreement. In other words, the exact opposite of all the alien tension that the Danish People's Party and the government have jointly carried out since the 2015 elections, not to mention the recently concluded Financial Law Agreement, where we agreed on a completely new course, a paradigm shift, in the policy of foreigners, so that the focus is on repatriation rather than integration. We have, of course, noted in the Danish People's Party that the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that the Ministry of Justice and probably most ministries have soon sent legal notes to the Folketing, in which they say that the agreement, the declaration, is not legally binding. And we also acknowledge that many notes have been sent to the Folketing, stating that the meaning of the declaration is likely to be limited. We have heard what has been said and seen what has been written. But even if you take that premise, it does not change the fact that the government with one hand conducts a strict immigration policy with the Danish People's Party, while with the other hand you sign a declaration whose aim among other things. is more migration and easier access to family reunification, and it is simply not connected. But, of course, sends an extremely unfortunate signal that Denmark basically welcomes migration, immigration. Why put your signature on a document at all if you do not have an ambition to live up to the content of the agreement, of what it says? Should we not instead follow countries such as the United States, Australia, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Croatia, Bulgaria, Israel and Estonia, which have already announced that they are critical or that they will not sign. In addition, there are countries such as Italy and Switzerland which, as I understand it, have decided at least to postpone the resolution. Although there are parts of the declaration requiring countries in Africa or the Middle East to accept their own citizens, yes, these obligations already exist, not to mention without the countries of these regions feeling a great urge to meet these obligations. Should we not rather spend more time making agreements between individual countries, which, after all, have a slightly greater effect? In any case, I think that is the experience. We have noted that within the government there is opposition to adherence to the UN Charter, where the Conservatives, Mr. Naser Khader calls it a multicultural agreement that will increase the migratory flow. When you read the statement, you understand what it may be like that Mr. Naser Khader arrives at that conclusion, and perhaps it would promote understanding of the Danish People's Party's point of view if all members of parliament decided to read the declaration in question. We have noted that the Minister of Integration does not have time on Denmark's behalf. It can be difficult to get time in the calendar • to take down and join the declaration on Denmark's behalf. The Minister for Development does not have the time either, and perhaps this is an indication that somewhere the government knows very well that we are dealing with a bad case here. We have also noted that the Socialist President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, was at one point out that the Social Democrats had reservations about the declaration. All of a sudden, however, the Social Democratic Party realized that it was better to join. So it is also a call for the Social Democratic Party to reconsider their position. All in all, it is our assessment in the Danish People's Party that the pact will be unfavorable for Denmark and help create uncertainty about the tight Danish immigration policy, and that is why, in our view, a Danish government should not accede to the declaration, even if it is not legally binding, because it may mean something in the long term. Of course, there will be countries, organisations, the United Nations, which will make representations to Denmark from time to time and draw our attention to the declaration which is contained in that declaration, and then, of course, they will kindly, but certainly, remind us why we have not addressed the immigration legislation in that and that area. And if you know the Danish system well, there will be a tendency to listen to the instructions that come from the various international bodies, among others. The United Nations, unfortunately, is moving in that direction. It may well be that it is not here and now that it will mean the big thing, but it has the potential to mean something in the long term, and I think that one therefore owes it to one to think very carefully about that. It is not in Danish interest to accede to the UN Migration Pact. Here the government and parliament should jointly say no, and that is the clear recommendation of the Danish People's Party. On behalf of the Danish People's Party it is, of course, open to other parties to join it I must make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government not to accede to the UN Declaration "Global Compact for Migration." • V 26).
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134242	The proposal for adoption is then included in the further negotiations. There are brief comments. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134250	I think that was a record in short text in a proposal for adoption. In fact, I get a little curious about the position of the Danish People's Party on our international cooperation at all. I think we agree that a body such as the United Nations was built on some pretty terrible events during the Second World War and that it is probably one of the most progressive and provocative institutions that the world community has been able to orchestrate together. This means that you have rights and that you have obligations as a country when you are a member of an international community such as the United Nations. When you stand here and think that we should be able to endorse statements a little bit, depending on how we think they fit into the national policy agenda, which is what DF is proposing here, what really is the Danish People's Party's overall position on the UN? Should we continue to be a member state of the United Nations?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134352	International cooperation can be fine. It is not the case that the Danish People's Party wants Denmark to withdraw completely from international cooperation, because we also understand that, of course, we are involved in different processes, and that there may be different negotiations where we must also make compromises, but every time we reach the point where we have to decide whether to take action and whether to conclude the agreement, we have to see what we have given and what we have got out of it. And there we just think that when we have this statement, it's not very good. Denmark is changing its character. It is not so terribly long since we had a population projection from Danmarks Statistik, who said that when we reach 2060 it is up to a million in Denmark that have a non-western background. That is what we are spending our time discussing here at home, and I know that the alternative has a slightly different view, but there is a broad majority in the Folketing who are problematizing it here at home in the national debate, and at the same time there is a broad majority who, on the international level, want to sign a declaration or accede to a declaration which, after all, speaks of immigration being good and suggesting that more immigration should be achieved. It just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134452	Then we have reached the point where follow-up questions can be asked, and Mrs Magdalene Maier wants that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134456	I do, and thank you for that. Now we have to keep our tongues straight in our mouths. That has been said before, and I can say it again, we must not forget that this is a declaration on which the United Nations Member States have agreed. It is not a legally binding declaration, but we can come back to that because it was not my follow-up question. If that is the position one has to take when one can and withdraw when one cannot, then it is a de facto break-up of any binding international cooperation, because where is cooperation if all the Member States are to say that we want to do so, and we do not want to do so. Then, of course, we have nothing to stop each other from working together on any joint statements, and then there is no reason to have a body such as the United Nations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134543	On the other hand, you only have 1⁄2 minutes in the second round. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134548	After all, several countries have announced that they will not accede to the declaration. I am quite sure that the United Nations will also last after December. Of course, I can be wrong. So no, this will not mean that international cooperation will collapse. If you followed the recommendation of the Danish People's Party here, it would just mean that there is a statement here which we do not then accede to. I hope, then, that this debate, regardless of how the parties of the rest of the Danish Parliament feel about this declaration, will contribute to a little reflection in the system and in the various political parties. So the next time there is some proposal for some kind of declaration that calls for more immigration and that we should promote multicultural activities or whatever it may be, somewhere in the system somebody might think that we might have to step on the brakes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134635	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134636	Sir. Martin Henriksen speaks a lot about the broad majority in the Danish Parliament, but is not the truth that this debate really illustrates another point, namely that the Danish People's Party stands alone; that what is actually widely recognised and supported, as the Prime Minister also said, is that migration, when it takes place legally, is a good thing, that the coming of foreigners to Denmark and working contributes to our welfare; and that what one should really want from the Danish People's Party was that this declaration was binding? Because you have just drawn up a financial law agreement which has had to deal with some of the problems you have created, but at least you have to deal with the consequences of some of the illegal migration, i.e. those that cannot be returned. More money has been set aside to deal with people who cannot be returned than they have wanted to sell in isolation with the agreement on the elderly in Denmark. And then we should have wanted an international agreement that was binding so that we could send those people home who have no right to be here. But where the Danish People's Party stands in isolation, one cannot recognise that migration is a good thing when it is done legally. Is it not true that the Danish People's Party does not see that all the people who have come to Denmark fully legally to work are actually a contribution to our society and that they increase our welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134758	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134759	Sir. Morten Østergaard certainly has quite a lot to say about the fact that when it comes to working for a restrictive immigration policy in the Folketing, there is only the Danish People's Party. There's Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard clearly a point, which is also underlined by the fact that unfortunately there are a lot of parties other than the Danish People's Party who will totally and without blinking will join the Global Compact for Migration here. So there's Mr. Morten Østergaard is a clear point, and I just think that should stand for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134834	Thank you. And if you want follow-up questions, you just press in. Thank you for that, sir. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134838	But the point on my part was that there are so many of us who agree that there are also positive aspects to it and that it is a matter of dealing with the negative sides, but leave it at that. I also think it was remarkable that the Prime Minister said so clearly that part of the misinformation that has come has come in the week's letter, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl sent out where he wrote that the declaration itself should lead to the arrival of more migrants. And there I just want to know if the Danish People's Party has a reaction to the fact that the government is clearly saying that it is disinformation when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has formulated himself on the declaration as is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134915	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205134916	I fully agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. And by the way, I would like to say that some of what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl read in his question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, after all, there is an expectation on the African side that this project will also mean something that it will move something. I think I also mentioned this in my own rapporteur's speech. And that's of course because this isn't just a joke. It's not. It means something, I think, and I guess that's basically what Mr. Morten Østergaard's point and the point of others in here is that this statement actually matters. You sign it because it has consequences. We have received many legal notes from the various ministries saying that it is not legally binding and that it is not legally binding on Denmark. However, there is also a note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration which says that in some cases it will have an extremely limited effect, because it can be used as an interpretation of how international courts will look at, for example, Danish legislation. So it's gonna have an effect. Then you can discuss how much the effect will be and when it will come, but of course there is some effect of it. And that is also why work has been done on this for a long time in a huge system such as the UN system, because there are, of course, a lot of people in the system that also believes that at some point it will have an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135032	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135033	Thank you. I find it a little interesting to ask how the Danish People's Party has come up with this very, very offensive, negative attitude to this. As the Prime Minister said, this migrant pact has been discussed with the parties of the Folketing on various occasions and in various forums. I know that the Danish People's Party has not at any time distanced itself from it. You haven't said anything. There has been silence from the Danish People's Party. Then it happens that suddenly a number of right-wing forces in Europe are starting a major campaign on social media against this migrant pact. One can have one's thoughts about where that disinformation campaign comes from. I have my own thoughts on that, and I shall not go into it here. But at any rate you can see that the right wing is starting to run completely wild and crazy on the Internet against it with trolls and all sorts of strange posts • totally misplaced posts, fanatical posts, which we have all received as well. Is it the case that, after the disinformation campaign has started, the Danish People's Party suddenly also says that they must now also oppose this? You haven't said that before. It is only at that time that the Danish People's Party is starting to take an interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135159	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135159-2	So, as I remember, the Danish People's Party has, for some time now, been interested in this matter, even before it became such a public debate. There have also been meetings of the Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, where the Danish People's Party has asked for a minister to come from the government and explained it here. I also believe that earlier, perhaps even a few years ago, we have had a conciliation on the general assembly that was in 2016, where this was how it began. So I think that the Danish People's Party has been dealing with this for a long time. Then I would say that it is true that some of what is around the Internet is disinformation. After all, not everything on the Internet is absolutely right. I hope no one is surprised that I have that view. There's a lot of things on the Internet. But that's why there may be a point in some of it. I have to say to those who are listening here: do not read what is on the Internet and in comments and all sorts of other places, but just go in and read the statement. Go in and read the statement yourself. Then you can see for yourself what you think of it. Then you can judge the case for yourself. I think that if you go in and read the statement and do not look at what is in comment fields and all sorts of other places where, of course, there are some who have a point I would like to stress, it is not all that is wrong. But go inside and read it for yourself. At least I think people can see that the Danish People's Party has a point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135322	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135323	Well, that's absolutely right. I think it would be a good idea to do that. Then you will also see that this is not legally binding on anything here in Denmark and that we can still adopt the policy that we agreed on in this Parliament. But I find it interesting that Mr. Martin Henriksen now seems to distance himself from some of those crazy things that run on the Internet. I would still like to maintain that the matter has been raised in various forums, among others, by the Minister for Development. I have not heard the Danish People's Party reject it, relate to it in reality. It is only as it becomes a public matter on the Internet that you really go to it, if I may say so. But Mr. Martin Henriksen publicly goes out and distance himself from the crazy claims that run on the Internet from the threats that come, the wrong claims that come about this migration pact? Will he go out and say that it is unacceptable that this campaign is running? Are we going to do this in order to have a debate which is a little less polluted than what is currently going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135426-2	When Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says that I must distance myself from crazy things, what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen saw exactly in that? There must be some specific quote that I can then take up and say whether I agree with or reject. That must be the logic of it. It is quite straightforward to say that, of course, some of what is written on the Internet is not correct. I guess this isn't gonna come as the big surprise. I don't think that's what most people think. But that is why there may still be a point in the fact that some of what is on the Internet is right. Again, I just want to encourage people to go in and read the statement and form their own judgment and opinion. I think people should do that. I would definitely urge people to do that. That is also why we in the Danish People's Party have actually translated the declaration into Danish, so we allow everyone, whether you are good at foreign languages or not, to come in and get an overview, so that you know what it is that the Danish government, with the support of a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, wants to say yes to. And if people read the statement and don't look at what's on the Internet etc. This is not a good statement for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135545	With that, we thank Mr. Martin Henriksen. There are no more questions. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135600	Thank you. It's sailing, let me start like this. I do not want to hide the fact that we in the Social Democratic Party are rather dissatisfied with the government's handling of this declaration of migration. It is more than two years since the government started the process with other countries about this declaration, but the government has only recently informed us in the Folketing, and now the government comes asking for understanding and support and perhaps also a little for forgiveness. Social democracy is not going to stand the ground for Danish foreign policy. Denmark is the little boy in the global schoolyard. We need strong international cooperation. We need an international dialogue to deal with migration, especially across the Mediterranean. According to the Constitution, it is the government that conducts foreign policy. That's a good provision. It does, of course, give the current government some power, but it also assigns some responsibility, a responsibility that we do not think the government has handled very impressively in this matter. The Danish People's Party has invited the government to stay home from the conference in Morocco where the declaration is to be adopted next week. It is therefore obvious to everyone that, on this issue, the government needs other parties, including the Social Democratic Party. We have not felt much about that, on the contrary. We stand on the sidelines, and we find that the country's foreign policy is operating on this point. Why do we first have the legal review of this statement the day before our debate? Why do the government parties' own rapporteurs continue to speak against the declaration? Why will the government's own ministers not go to Morocco and join the agreement they have negotiated themselves? Why does the government continue to claim that this declaration strengthens the possibility of returning rejected asylum seekers when that is simply not true? The Prime Minister claims that the critics of the declaration are spreading false rumors about the content of the agreement, but it is no wonder that the confusion is total in the population after this chaotic process. I know that autumn is always a busy period for ministers, but busyness is no excuse. It is the stability and credibility of our country's foreign policy that we are talking about. Moreover, as I said, it is over two years since the process started. Can the debate on an international declaration on migration surprise anyone? Quite frankly, it is political tone that we are now standing here five minutes to twelve and still having a debate of concern and uncertainty. Social democracy has agreed with the governing parties on a proposal for adoption. It has taken a little dialogue back and forth, and I will not hide the fact that it has been crucial for the Social Democratic Party to make it clear that, according to the government's assessment, Danish foreign policy can continue to be established in the Folketing. This must be clearly stated in the text put forward by the government in Morocco. In addition, it has been crucial for us that the government also travels to Morocco and explains to the other countries that, from a small Scandinavian welfare state, migration also has a backside, that there is a reason why we tighten foreign policy in Denmark. I am aware that it may not be so convenient for the government to tell this so clearly on the international stage. Here it may make better sense to be bathed in the flashlight and enjoy the good fortune, but the government cannot celebrate the tight immigration policy with cake at home and then hide our concerns abroad. The ministers must tell the same thing in Morocco as they tell Mr. and Mrs. Denmark here at home. The immigration isn't just pie. I am therefore looking forward to today's debate and, on behalf of the Social Democrats, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I am going to read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption Denmark has an interest in international cooperation on cross-border challenges. The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark's strict foreign policy is not changed on the basis of the UN's Declaration of Migration, the Declaration is not legally binding and the Folketing as it stands determines the policy of foreigners. The Folketing calls on the government to ensure that the explanation of vote by Danish consent reflects the above and underlines the challenges that migration also brings. • V 27).
ParlaMint-DK_20181205135959	Thank you, too, and this proposal for adoption is obviously part of the debate. There are brief remarks here, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140007	Thank you. I would like to read something from the statement and then hear if Mr. Mattias Tesfaye agrees: We recognise that immigration is a source of prosperity, innovation and sustainable development in our globalised world. Is that the socialist line in the field of foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140030	Our line on this issue is first and foremost that it is the government that conducts the country's foreign policy. Then, of course, I have read the statement some time ago and reread it again yesterday, and I would like to acknowledge that there are a number of things in it that I think are worrying. We can go into a more detailed discussion of the specific quotation which the rapporteur read and then he has to repeat it but, in general terms, I would just like to say that I understand some people will be concerned if they read the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140104	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140105	I understand that, too. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye and myself and the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have for some time had some common views on foreign labour. This UN declaration envisages increased immigration in the form of increased labour migration. How does social democracy view that part? For it is a little strange that not long ago we had a course with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and representatives of the government, where the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party did not agree on everything, but after all agreed on a part in saying to the government that their initiative, which is about increasing immigration in the form of more labour migration, was not a good idea. How does it relate to the fact that we are saying today that we can agree to a declaration which is aimed at more foreign labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140208	Social democracy's attitude to foreign labour is completely unaffected by this statement. We are of the opinion that if it is specialists, if it is people with long educations, people we lack in Denmark, then they are welcome. Then they contribute to the Danish welfare society. But we must not open up the Danish labour market to people from outside Europe to the ordinary skilled and unskilled labour market. That is also why we have been opposed to lowering the threshold from the current DKK 418,000. and down to the 325,000 kroner. a year, as proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140235	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140237	Thank you very much for the floor and thank you, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye for a fair presentation. There's something I'm a little puzzled about, though. As I have been informed, it was back in early November 2016 that an open consultation on the New York Declaration was held on the basis of the process that then leads to this, where I understand that the Social Democracy was involved, and I do not understand this picture that you have not been informed. You participated then, and again in 2017 you were also in the debate. As I see it, you have been on the papers all the way through and all the way up to when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was asked, after the opening debate, what was thought of this agreement. You just hadn't decided yet what you thought of it, even though you've been with us all the way. Is that not a more accurate impression of the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140331	No, actually, I don't think so. I would say that if, in the wake of one of the biggest migration challenges that have been on this continent for many years, I were negotiating an international agreement on migration, and afterwards I allowed myself to be surprised at how the debate developed, I would have kept the parties of the Folketing a little closer to the body. I am aware that there is no legal obligation to obtain a mandate, for example. from the Folketing, but that does not prevent a government from ensuring that a broad majority of the Folketing is informed, so that the debate when it comes is not marked by misunderstandings, confusions and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140404	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140406	After all, it is not the government that is the reason for the misunderstandings and the debate that have been going on out there, but I can see from the papers that they have been informed. One has just been very late in making a decision about what one wanted to do in the Social Democratic Party about this, and I now find it a little uncomfortable to blame ourselves for the confusion in our own ranks over what we are dealing with now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140435	I admit that it is not the government that has spread false rumors about what is the content or consequences of this statement. But let me just say in Jutland that it has not helped the clarification, that we have rapporteurs from the government's own parties who will not support the declaration, that the government's own ministers will not go down and sign it, and that the government continues to insist that it strengthens the possibility of returning rejected asylum seekers. And in this way it creates the impression that it has a legal bond, what it says in this statement, even though it doesn't have it. So I think there has been a lot of confusion and I do not think the government has helped very much to clarify what has been the content of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140515	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140517	I have to admit that I thought it was an amazing speech by Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, representing the country's largest party. Should it, sir? Mattias Tesfaye said, is it understood, in this way, that the Social Democratic Party does not have a position on the Marrakech agreement? So, what does the Social Democrats think about the Marrakech agreement? I didn't hear that. Well, then, sir. Mattias Tesfaye didn't tell you about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140545	Social democracy has proposed moving asylum procedures outside Europe's borders. If this is to be possible, binding cooperation with countries outside the borders of Europe must be established. It's self-evident. If we cannot even accede to a declaration that is not legally binding, it will be completely unlikely. So, of course, we are saying that everything that can move towards a strengthened dialogue on the management of migration is something we agree with. We think that is a good thing. We regard this here as a declaration that can provide a framework for an international dialogue on migration. And I do not believe that Europe's challenges of migration can be tackled without such dialogue, for example. with the governments of Africa. I do not think that Denmark should stand by this declaration. It would be harmful to Denmark if we did so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140639	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140640	Once again, we were told nothing about the position on the substance. We were just told something about the frame, and if you were strapping your legs, something else would be worse. But what does the Social Democrats think about the content? Well, sir. Mattias Tesfaye doesn't say a few things that he thinks is good about this deal? Because I assume that is why the government is being given the opportunity to conduct its foreign policy. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye knows, of course, that prior to major decisions, the government must consult with the Foreign Policy Name. I guess the government did. And I assume that the Social Democrats who have also expressed their opinion. So what does the Social Democratic Party think about the content of this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140727	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140728	There are several points in this statement that are good. Actually, I think there is. There are several points on which I am somewhat concerned, which I also mentioned to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the bottom line is that it would be harmful for Denmark if we jump out of the declaration. That's the bottom line, and that's what I think the Folketing should deal with. That is also why we have said that we are not going to stand up for the government going to Morocco. We hope that the government can also find a minister who wants to go to Morocco.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140750	Now it may be my job to be a little forward-looking. It is the case that the time allocated has been determined and we have to finish at 1 p.m. 15. With the strip of short remarks, I can easily see that things are going wrong. That is why I would now like to introduce one and not two issues. We shall then try to see if we can get through this, but otherwise I will have to restrict further, because it is simply an agreement that it is at 1 p.m. 15.00, it ends. It's clear to everyone. So from now on, it's one question, and that's Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140822	When the answer from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye is so unclear about the substance of it, it is very natural that he speaks process instead. As far as information from the government is concerned, we have nothing to complain about there. We have been fully informed about this, and it is only when the matter explodes on the Internet that the Socialists, too, are beginning to have concerns. Until then, everyone has been concerned that it is fantastic that the United Nations is going to do this kind of work. Now Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that there are things he would have written differently. Yes, of course there is, but the social democracy has a very proud tradition for the UN. It has been the basis of socialist foreign policy since 1945 that the UN was the foundation stone. There have been plenty of Social Democrats who have fought for the UN all the way through. Can it not be a matter of concern that, when a text is drawn up in the United Nations, where 193 Member States are sitting, there are points with which one cannot agree? That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140931	Thank you! It would be a great help if we were to keep to the speaking time for each of us. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205140935	Well, when I say I can't sign a hundred percent of everything that's in that statement, it's perfectly natural. Almost 200 different countries have sat down and had to meet somewhere. There are, for example: Some wordings about how the state should support media that behave negatively against immigration. I think most of us in this Parliament find that a bit strange. There are also some other wordings about the obligation of countries to receive rejected asylum seekers. I think most people are sitting there thinking that it would be nice if it could be realized. That is the case with everything, and that is also why I think we must see on the bottom line whether it would be good or bad for Denmark if we did not agree to this statement. At least the conclusion of the Social Democrats is that this would be a bad thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141029	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141031	I would like to say a little further: you do not sign at 25 per cent. or 50%. 75% or 75%. Well, either you sign it or you don't sign it. I am glad that the Socialists support Denmark's signing. I think there was a little uncertainty about that last week. That is probably what is causing the debate here today and also the surprise of the two previous authors. So, what has really happened is that the European and Western right have risen up and launched a campaign against this declaration of migration as the mother of all evils, and my question to Mattias Tesfaye is: Can one completely deny that the Social Democracy in Denmark has been affected by that campaign of influence? The declaration has not changed in that period. It's been ready since the early summer. Is the concern expressed today, in fact, more under the impression of criticism than of the content of the declaration?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141128	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141129	We are not under any right-wing campaign on social media, but we allow ourselves to be a little concerned that the government's own ministers will not go down and sign the agreement they have negotiated themselves; that the government's own rapporteurs criticise it; that the government continues to argue that it has legal ties where it benefits Denmark, namely by making it easier to return rejected asylum seekers, but that it does not have legal ties the other way. I understand that is causing some confusion. I don't think the government's handling this case has helped clarify the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141204	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141205	Thank you. Speaking of which, sir... Søren Søndergaard asked about the content of the declaration and whether the Social Democratic Party supports it, so says Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: There's something we're worried about and something we're not. In fact, I would like to ask about a specific element in that, namely one of the guiding principles contained in the declaration which deals with the rights of children. After all, the President of the Social Democratic Party has declared that she wants to be Prime Minister of the children. There is this paragraph which deals with promoting existing international legal obligations in relation to children's rights and maintaining the principle that consideration for the child is always the most important, also in relation to migration, to unaccompanied minors and to children who are separated from their parents. Does the rapporteur agree with that principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141258	Denmark has, of course, acceded to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, and Denmark has written in its own legislation the best interests of the child as a really important principle and, in relation to this, this declaration will not help either way. We think these are good principles that we would very much like to uphold.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141316	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141317	Thank you. One question per question. It's like being at a group meeting at Leif Mikkelsen. I just want to ask: when did the Social Democratic Party decide to join this agreement? Because it's been a long process. Yes, this is not something that has been discussed much in public until recently, but there has been a parliamentary process of which the Social Democratic Party has been a part, and until a few months ago the Social Democratic President raised doubts as to whether the agreement would be supported. This has been decided upon, but when was that decision made?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141355-2	It's the government that, on behalf of Denmark, agrees to this agreement. Social democracy supports the government doing so, and we have not argued at any time that we should do the opposite at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141411	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Mads Birded as rapporteur. In fact, the rapporteur has four minutes and not five minutes. But it is because one minute has been spent on a question. Now we're so lucky here that the system can't figure it out by 4 and 5 minutes. When I get up, the time is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141434	Thank you for the floor, and I shall do so briefly because of my deep respect for the President; I dare no more than that. When I opened my e-mail this morning, it was again on the basis of the statement we are discussing today, filled with many inquiries. The first was an imaginative approach, which was about Putin's influence on the Islamisation of the whole of Europe. I'll get the answer to the gentleman who asked me. It may be a little later this week. The second question I sat down and replied to immediately, because it was a request from a concerned citizen who had a large number of questions about the text here. That is why I am pleased that the Danish People's Party has taken the initiative in this question debate so that we can talk about the UN declaration we have on the table today. It's rare for a UN statement to give rise to so much debate I don't remember anyone before • but also enough for so many misunderstandings, according to the first e-mail I opened this morning. That is, of course, a pity, because this statement I think is actually a good statement for Denmark. I think so for three different reasons. Firstly, as a small country, we need to recognise that we cannot solve the global migration challenges we face alone. We are dependent on international cooperation and, if we are to put an end to irregular migration and the business model of traffickers, we need to work with others. Secondly, declarations ensure that we have a dialogue with the countries that we cannot get to take home, for example. rejected asylum seekers. With the declaration, the countries recognise that they already have a duty to welcome their own citizens. I know it is not legally binding, but we need to set up a tent where we can have that dialogue with these countries. We will be able to use that in the future, not now, I know, but one day in the future, when we negotiate on repatriation and illegal migrants, we can, however, make them aware that we have started talking about these things. Thirdly, and most importantly, the declaration is not legally binding. This means that we continue to be masters of our own house. We define our foreign policy. The government's crown lawyers have also confirmed this in the legal assessment sent to the Danish Parliament. One must know us badly if one thinks that we could change our strict foreign policy. It is also a rather strange debate to have that, on the backside of the fact that we have adopted the so-called paradigm shift, we should suddenly let it go. Of course we don't. Since 2001, we have only interrupted by 31⁄2 years with the 45 relaxations of the Social Democratic Party, leading a government that has conducted a consistent and strict immigration policy. Nothing could be farther from us than to put it at risk. The text of the declaration represents a compromise between a large number of countries in the world. Would we have written the text differently if we had been able to? Yeah, we sure would. But now the text is as it is. It is a start, a dialogue paper. And so that there is no misunderstanding, we will give an explanation of vote when the declaration is adopted. Here we will then explain how we read the declaration and at the same time emphasise that migration is not without challenges, because migration is clearly something that comes up with huge challenges. So for us in the Left, there is nothing to be worried about in this respect, in the sense that there is a reason to enter the tent where we start a dialogue on something that is a major problem for all of us. In those words, on behalf of the Left, I should like to say that we are pleased with the proposal for adoption which Mr. Mattias Tesfaye previously read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141835	Thank you. That was really great. It was exactly on time. Thank you, sir. Birdy. There are a few brief comments. It's sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141841	Thank you. I would like to read out a little from the Declaration, Objective 16, which is about strengthening migrants and communities to realise full inclusion and social cohesion. Well, that's just something like Mr. Kim. Mads Birded or the Minister for Integration might say in a larger assembly in the country. There is one point about supporting multicultural activities through sport, music, art, food festivals, volunteering and other social events that can strengthen mutual understanding and recognition of the culture of migrants and the country of destination. Is Mr. Mads Bird agreed? And if sir... Mads Birded now answers that it doesn't matter, why in the world go down to sign something that doesn't matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205141928	There are two questions in that regard. We live in a free country, and I'm glad if someone out there wants to make an arrangement of one kind or another. I am not going to cause the Folketing to make multicultural arrangements of any kind, but you can do that if you want to. This text isn't going to change that. And the text is not going to change so much now, but as I think the Minister for Integration said very rightly, it is the policy of small steps. Now we are starting to move in the direction where we can provide for some of what the government would like to do, especially in cooperation with the Danish People's Party, namely to ensure that we have a new way of thinking about being a refugee, in other words to get people back to their country of origin once they have come here, and that can only be done if there is a country of origin that will receive them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142011	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142013	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. I think that, at least of the speeches we have heard so far, this was the most positive notification of the declaration. What is of course a little puzzled is that on the one hand you think it is good and right, but at the same time you say that it does not matter. I mean, isn't that supposed to be? Sir. Mads Fuglede also has a past as an expert in international politics. The point of this is, of course it matters. Of course, it makes a difference whether Denmark is going down and signing that agreement or not. It makes a world of difference whether we have moved the dialogue that should allow us to have arranged conditions in relation to legal migration and the handling of illegal migration. That is why we should not stand here and tell people that there is nothing to worry about, because it doesn't matter. We must then tell people that with this we have renewed hope that we can actually make progress in this area. This statement can be given and we hope it will be of great importance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142119	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142120	There's so much disinformation about this statement, and we don't have to spread any more of that kind of thing. When it is not legally binding, but is just a dialogue paper where we start a conversation about some of the major challenges we have, we should not go out and say that it is more than it is. That would be crazy to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142138	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142150	The issue of migration is an important issue for the countries that people leave and for the countries that people come to, and, of course, not least for migrants themselves. The latest UN study shows that in the vicinity of 260 million people have left their country of birth and live in another country. So they're emigrated. That is an increase of 40%. Since 2000. Many of them live a good or at least a better life in the new country they have come to, and they live perfectly legally there, but far too many live in poor conditions and are exploited in the most bestiality. One of the world's largest recipients of migrants, actually no. 2, is the Islamist dictatorship in Saudi Arabia, where many migrant workers are deprived of their passports and forced to live under slave-like conditions. The same is true in Qatar, where 94 per cent of the population live. of the labour force are migrant workers who, among other things, are: builds the stadiums to be used for the World Cup in 2022 that corrupt members of FIFA have allocated to the country. But it's not something that's just going on far away from us. A few years ago, a report estimated that there are up to one million slave workers in the EU, almost all were migrant workers. More than a quarter of them were considered to have been sexually exploited, and this is something that traffickers earn with money on. And now to get very close, we have the case of Filipino drivers in Padborg, whose only and biggest crime was that they believed in promises from a greedy Danish employer about a job that would ensure that they could provide for their families, but who ended up living in miserable and unworthy conditions. So there is good reason to discuss migration and the situation of migrants at international level, and we welcome the fact that this discussion has been raised at the United Nations. And we welcome the fact that a declaration has been made which relates in a large number of areas to the pitiful conditions under which migrant workers live. We welcome it, even if it is not binding. The central point of the declaration is, as it were, that migrants have the right to the same universal human rights and fundamental freedoms as others and that they must be respected, protected and respected at all times. This declaration is a framework in which the discussion can take place, in order to get the countries to do so. We can only support that. But the declaration, as has been said, is the result of a compromise, and therefore there are also things in the declaration that can be understood in different ways and that can be drawn in different directions. That is why we think it is right and natural for the countries to attach their signatures to the declaration to a protocol stating how they interpret the text. Of course, these protocols can also be drawn in different directions, but this simply reflects the fact that there are still differences and that there is still a discussion that needs to be continued. On one point, we believe that a clear protocol text is necessary. This is precisely due to the fact that in our globalised world there are political forces and cynical employers who want to abuse migration to undermine and eliminate existing wage and working conditions that employees have fought for in different countries. These political forces, cynical employers, must have a fight for the line. They must have it in Denmark, and they must have it internationally. That is why we want the Danish Government to write clearly in a protocol that nothing in this declaration can be used as an argument to justify or accept social dumping where foreign workers are forced on worse conditions than those applicable to resident workers. Against this background, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament supports the desire for multilateral solutions through the UN to major cross-border problems, such as migration. The Folketing instructs the Government to attach the signature of the non-binding UN Declaration on Migration to a protocol stating that no items in the Declaration can be used as an argument for any social dumping or attack on employees' rights. • V 28).
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142645	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also part of the debate. There is a brief comment, so Mr. Søren Søndergaard needs to stay here. It's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142653	Sir. Søren Søndergaard puts his finger on a number of the sore points around the world, i.e. where there are challenges. That goes without saying. What I'd like to ask, sir. Søren Søndergaard about, is how he thinks that this statement could have a meaning in that context. Is it because Mr. Søren Søndergaard shares the view that I read earlier, expressed by the adviser on migration issues from the African Union, who represents 55 African countries, namely: The declaration will have legal effects. It begins with soft principles, but such UN initiatives entail moral obligations that become a global norm for how laws should be interpreted. Is it because Mr. Søren Søndergaard, in fact, shares the same view of how such UN action develops, that he believes that the very UN declaration we are talking about here today will have a real significance in relation to the challenges around the world, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard has just listed his rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142750	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142751	As a description of a logical process, it is absolutely right. As a description of a fact, no, for there is still a battle going on and there are still countries that will do one thing and the other. I think it will take a very long time for us to convince Saudi Arabia and Qatar and all those other Islamist rogue states that they must live up to the things set out in this declaration on the rights of migrant workers. I think it's going to be a really long time. It takes a lot of pressure. It also requires that, among other things: The Danish People's Party is a little more brave when we discuss it here in the Folketing, and is a little more ready to say away from those dictatorship states. It's gonna take something. So it is not an automatic process, but it is logical that if you agree on some things at international level, you go from having a broad consensus to making it law at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142841	With that, we thank Mr. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205142856	Thank you for that, President. My old math teacher always said that when you have a calculation, you have to remember like looking at the result when you're done. You have to use your common sense and see if the result makes sense. And if it runs off completely, you probably haven't figured it out correctly. I say this because I think that this debate is somewhat influenced by the fact that there are some who come to a conclusion that does not entirely make sense. Because it comes to the conclusion that this declaration should, as it were, open up unbridled migration from Africa. That doesn't make sense. We have a government in Denmark which is in favour of strict immigration policy, and it is a government which stands by it and would therefore never sign a declaration which had the consequence that there was unbridled migration from Africa. In fact, I do not believe that a single European country wants to do so. On the contrary, the reverse is what we want to achieve. All political parties in Europe have a very great interest in this. That is why, in my clear opinion, there are many of the conclusions that are being reached in the public debate on this agreement, which does not really have any real substance. It will continue to be the case that states themselves determine their foreign policy. The legal assessment is that the declaration is not legally binding, does not impose new legal obligations on countries and does not establish customary international law. The government has also made it clear that, in the explanation of vote which several countries wish to join, it will make it clear that the above is the case. It will also include courts in their interpretation of the declaration in the future. The declaration makes it very clear that it is the sovereign right of states to determine who will have access to their territory, including that countries can decide for themselves what irregular and regular migrants are. So why even sign such a statement here? Yes, I suppose it is a diplomatic tool that can be taken up by the diplomatic toolbox for example. to ensure that countries receive their own citizens when they are not entitled to be in, for example. Denmark. Either because they do not have the right to asylum or because they have been expelled because of crime. This is something that a very broad majority in the Folketing cares a great deal about, and it then requires that one engages in international cooperation in order to resolve those problems. Is this gonna have a huge impact? I don't want to be so smart about it, but I don't think it does. It is an element, a tool that can be used to promote some Danish interests. I do not think that we will solve the major problems of migration without agreements which, in some areas, would certainly have been better formulated. But I do not think that we will solve the major problems without entering into agreements with other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205143309	Thank you. It was obviously so clear that there are no brief comments. It's just mentioned to be followed. But now it is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205143323	Thank you. On the one hand, it is a little sad that we have to stand here in the Danish Parliament and discuss whether Denmark should accede to a UN declaration. On the other hand, it is actually positive that we have the debate because it shows how much agreement there is in the Danish Parliament that Denmark should of course accede to a UN declaration of migrants. With the exception of the Danish People's Party, all parties in the Folketing think it is the right thing to do. I think that is very positive. The Prime Minister said that international cooperation has never been more important. The Prime Minister also said that cooperation will not make us any smaller; on the contrary, we are getting bigger. You could also quote Michelle Obama: "When they go low, we go high. That's what this is all about. That's why we always have to remember to lift this up. I do not think that in world history we have seen such strong international cooperation as we now have. This is partly because of the European Union in Europe and partly because of the United Nations. The backdrop on which the European Union and the United Nations are built, as I also mentioned earlier on a question, are some terrible periods in our history of war and total disregard for the rights of minorities, of the rights of certain sections of the population. That is why international cooperation is insanely important. I talked to an acquaintance about this the other day. I can't remember who it was right now because we were a little worried about the new financial agreement, because we thought that this new paradigm shift, which is so much talk about, is actually increasingly neglecting the rights of refugees in Denmark. Then we came to talk about when we have reached the edge: when will there be some sort of popular uprising, when will people say? Why do we still have so much stability in our time, despite being a place where we can start talking about whether we are all equal or living on a desert island or what? Then my acquaintance said: I know why; it is because of the European Union. It is because of the European Union that we have had such a long and stable peace period in Denmark. Because if you believe that history is one that moves in such a way that there are times when there must be war to gain stability, and then there must be war again to be reminded of how important it is to stick together, it is a long time since we have had unpeaceful periods in the world at least in our part of the world. But it is because of the European Union and because of the United Nations. That is why international cooperation is vitally important, and that is why I am very, very pleased with the energy that the government has put into working on this statement of migrants. I am very pleased that we recognise that migration is positive. Of course, we also recognise that there are challenges with migration, but migration is fundamentally positive. We've migrated throughout history. World history is a big story about migration. I am personally a product of migration. It's sir. Naser Khader, too, sir. Mattias Tesfaye too. Well, I just think that we should be careful not to see migration as a negative thing. It's a positive thing. We should be glad that we have a world that is open and where there is a chance that we can learn more from each other together and learn from each other. I think it is a pity that we could not agree on a joint proposal for the adoption of all parties outside the Danish People's Party. I think that is because we are in agreement that Denmark should support this declaration of migrants. But we simply think that the proposal for adoption made by the government is, unfortunately, too much about the national political interests of Denmark. We do not think this is necessary in this context, because it is a matter of joint international cooperation. That is why we have made our own proposal for adoption, and when I say we are on behalf of the Radical Left, the SF and the Alternative. I would like to read this proposal now, and this is what it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament welcomes the UN Declaration on Migration and Denmark's accession to it and calls on the government to continue to strengthen multilateral cooperation on preventing migration, handling and responsibility for people on the flight and their rights, the repatriation of migrants without legal residence and the fight against the exploitation of migrants by criminals. • V 29).
ParlaMint-DK_20181205143808	Thank you. I need the text, because it is a prerequisite for getting it under consideration. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205143819	Thank you. After all, it is not because I have any ambition to reconcile the views of the alternative with the Danish People's Party. I think, however, that the rapporteur's speech we have just heard was absolutely appalling, that is, what the rapporteur attaches to the European Union. It is a European Union in which Britain is about to resign; a European Union in which the German Chancellor has enormous problems and where it talks about how short she is still holding; a France where there is fire and fire in Paris and where, unfortunately, the frustrations are really reflected in terrible violent riots; frustrations everywhere in European countries where people rise against those who control countries. And why? Because there's a focal point in this discussion, and that's immigration. It is the immigration debate, namely that migratory flows have not been managed for decades, that there are huge integration problems and that the peoples of the countries stop. This is the focal point of all the frustration that exists in so many European countries. And then the rapporteur stands here and says that it is the European Union that has made peace. The European Union is fantastic. In other words, does the rapporteur not see the same things that I see in reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205143929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205143930	Yes, I see an EU that faces a huge task, but which is difficult to deal with, because, among other things, there is. are countries such as Denmark that stand up and say that we would rather make bilateral agreements outside the European Union. That's the problem. Clearly, if the countries begin to withdraw and say that no, we do not want to engage in European cooperation, we would rather make our own little fake solutions together with those countries that would like to do so, then there is no reason for international cooperation. International cooperation offers rights and obligations. We'll give you something, we'll get something back. The whole task of the European Union is to find out together, and we are not there at all yet. But what is the alternative? Leaving the European Union so that we have a nation state in Denmark instead of a European community? That is certainly not what we want in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205144014	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. There are no more brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Morten Østergaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205144032	I would like to start by saying that I think it is a good and important step that the world community is taking when this declaration is signed by a broad range of countries. We can, of course, be pleased that it has a strong Danish content, since it was Mr. Mogens Lykketoft, of the Social Democrats, who, in his capacity as President of the United Nations General Assembly, helped to set it in motion, and the Danish Government, despite my disagreements with the domestic immigration policy, has worked to ensure that the declaration can become a reality. That is why we are in a positive and welcome situation. That is why I would also like to say that for the Radical Left it is clear that we would like to sign the declaration and that we warmly support Denmark's doing so, and I am really glad that we are now having the debate. Then I would actually urge people to read the statement. You can take paragraph 13 out. That is where it is clear what it is about, what it is about, and then sort out everything that is about one religion or foreign powers that will make sure that our society is completely changed and all that, but just take a look at what it says. The declaration states that it recognises that safe, proper and regular migration works for all when it takes place in a well-informed, planned and consensus-based manner. I'd like to sign that. Migration should never be an act performed in desperation. So let's sign up for that, too. When migration is carried out in desperation, we need to work together to respond to migrants in the needs of vulnerable situations and address the respective challenges. Yes, we do, because otherwise we know what the conclusion will be. It will then be the chaos that has taken place before the eyes of the people in the wake of the recent refugee crisis. So we have to work together. Finally, everyone should be pleased, regardless of what is said in the immigration policy, with a view to creating conditions that allow societies and individuals to live in security and dignity in their own countries. And I'd be happy to sign that, too. We don't want a world where people run to live. It is the intention of the declaration here that we work together to deal with people in a vulnerable situation, that we reduce the number of people fleeing in desperation, by creating dignified conditions in their own countries, that, when it comes to regular migration, we create orderly conditions. After all, every element has challenges. It is not because there are no challenges that we make a statement. But it is because there are challenges that need to be solved, and this is, of course, the case of those who have fled across their heads from climate change, hunger or impossible conditions in their home countries. They're in a vulnerable situation, and we have to deal with that. Otherwise, we'll just leave them without any future prospects until one day they're at our doorstep and we think it's absolutely horrible. So, of course, we have to work together on this. However, regular migration also poses challenges, and Mr. Søren Søndergaard has pointed to some of them, and indeed we must work together to ensure that people who are legally resident in another country, for example. in order to work, get organized conditions and be treated properly and with respect, also with their diversity, and that is what the declaration is about. Therefore, I would say that even if I had the perspective of the Danish People's Party, where the whole team from the campaigns, the ads, out there, the comic team, if you like, is gathered here today, then also would think that the statement was good, because it will create orderly conditions where there is chaos today, creating answers where people are left with questions today. That's why this statement is good for Denmark, good for Europe and good for the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205144434	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. I am sorry, but there is no room for short remarks. We have 16 minutes left and all rapporteurs must have a chance, and I also think that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration should have a chance, and we have agreed with each other that two hours are the conditions for an urgent request. So the next rapporteur is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205144501	I would like to commend the Prime Minister for an offensive and fine speech, which showed such a clear international commitment, showed an awareness that we are facing some global problems that global society needs to address, and that is what this discussion is quite concerned with. I have no comment to make on the process here in the Folketing. I think we have been informed as we should be informed and there has been plenty of time to discuss these things. The thing is, it wasn't very controversial until recently, when it exploded on the Internet, because some right-wing movement was run by whom, I don't know, but at least some movement on the Internet started running disinformation campaigns on this. That is quite uncontroversial, and that is why I think it is a completely proper way of dealing with it. The only scandal there is is, in fact, sir. Naser Khader. It is quite crazy that there is a member of parliament who is rapporteur for a government party which is so much involved in spreading disinformation and running completely disloyal in relation to this. I would hope that there were some in the government, or at least in the Conservative People's Party, who have dealt with this quite patheticly, who could tackle Mr. Naser Khader and tell him how this is connected. But quite frankly, as I said, this is about a global problem. Sir. Søren Søndergaard has mentioned migrant workers and has mentioned Saudi Arabia and other places in the Middle East where they come and work in terrible conditions, and it is not only in the Middle East, but it is also elsewhere. It is also a refugee problem that we are dealing with here and where we make it a matter of Denmark, Europe, Africa. But it's far more extensive. It is also internally in Africa, where it is far, far greater than it is in us, it is Latin America, where millions of people are currently fleeing Venezuela, it is Asia, where people are fleeing Myanmar and elsewhere. In other words, we are talking about a problem that we need to tackle and which the United Nations has decided to deal with together, and we have to assume that it will not be less. People move when there is hunger and people move because of the climate crisis. The climate crisis alone will increase this problem. That is why it is timely to take this seriously and make a statement at the United Nations. It is not completely crystal clear in all areas, but a text that needs to be processed and discussed by so many Member States cannot be. Everyone who has dealt with these things knows that it can't be that way, and therefore it can't be any use that we're sticking in a few formulations and sticks in what it should have been and it should have been and could have been. The fact of the matter is that there is a huge step forward in agreeing on this declaration, which is a huge step forward, and that is why I think that Parliament should support it here without reservation, because in reality we are chasing some ghosts. I don't think there's any reason for a Danish explanation of vote, and now you do it, okay? However, I think it is fairly clear that in this declaration we will in no way be obliged to change our foreign policy, and so on our policy on social dumping and the labour market, and at any rate what is crucial is that we in Parliament today say quite clearly that we support the government's agreement to this declaration, that we commit ourselves to international cooperation, that we recognise that these are global problems that need to be resolved globally.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205144909	Thank you very much, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. The last rapporteur from the parties is Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205144921	Thank you. I doubt that the last rapporteur, the SF rapporteur, has read the UN Charter. I am very, very doubtful about that, and when you read it, you have to read it critically. The starting point of the UN Charter is that Denmark and the West face enormous challenges from our backyard in Africa and North Africa, where there is a population explosion right now. Take a country like Egypt: 90 million inhabitants, and they become 1 million more every nine months. Many Africans today have mobile phones and satellite dishes, and they can see that they can feel a little better elsewhere in the world. The smugglers exploit their dreams and entice them to leave their original homelands and seek happiness in Western Europe. But that's not the answer. The solution is not emigration. The solution is that we invest in those countries, that we buy their goods. That's what keeps people at home. We must do something about the basic reasons why people flee and emigrate. Some of them come here and they are illegally and illegally staying, especially in the countries of southern Europe, and that is a huge challenge. That is why we need a solution to stop illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. However, if we are to get the original countries, those from whom the illegal immigrants come, to accept their own citizens, to help us combat traffickers, then it is extremely important that we resolve this challenge. There are problems that need to be resolved. The UN's solution to the problems is a pact where the issues are addressed, but the question is what should be delivered in exchange for a signature. What's the price? I think that is an appropriate question to ask. What is to be delivered in return? There are quite a few questions that can be asked about the Pact and its consequences. Personally, I am sceptical about the Pact and its consequences, and the Conservative Parliamentary Group shares my scepticism. That is why it is crucial for us that the government should have clear reservations, in which we emphasise that there are things that are being claimed about the Pact that we disagree with. The reservations must be precise, they must be clear and they must be strict so that there is no doubt about the consequences of the pact. Among other things: there are claims that the Pact may end up being a convention. That is how the conventions begin: first there are declarations of intent and then it becomes conventions. Is that true? I would really like to get an answer to that or to be stressed in the reservations. We have a refugee convention today, but do we also want to have a migration convention? Another question is: what is the cost of other countries helping us to fight these smugglers and illegal immigration and accept their rejected citizens? How binding is it for those countries when the Pact is not binding? It is said that everyone has the same universal rights from day one how will it affect our welfare community? Will we be able to maintain our autonomy with regard to immigration policy? One section of the Pact that really provokes me is the paragraph which says that the freedom of the media to inform the public will be restricted. I think that these are problematic wordings. The Danish Journalists' Association has been out to point that out. Then there have been a lot of allegations from the African countries if you have followed the debate that has been held in the African countries where a great deal has been claimed. I would really like to see the claim that comes from there refuted, among other things. It is a question of legal residence for those who live illegally in Western European countries, the two to three million. So the government is, as we have mentioned before, engaged in a very good process of dialogue with not many countries, but the right countries with which we are on the same wavelength to find common reservations. There is a need for reservations, and now the government is negotiating to have those reservations. So the Pact alone is not good enough, but the Pact with reservations is necessary. So what becomes exciting is to see the wording about these reservations so that things can be put in place once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205145400	Thank you, too. Naser Khader, who just stole one minute from the honored ministers. The first minister to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go. We can all look at the clock, how much time is left, so we have to try to share it as well as we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205145415	I'd be happy to share with the PM. So thank you for a good debate. In fact, I think it has been very helpful that we have had this debate. I think it has to be said, if you look around Europe, that the debate has been very lively around other countries. I also think that in many ways it has been objective here in the Danish Parliament, and I think that serves us all very well. Of course, there are some things that remain. One of the things that remains for me today, apart from the fact that I think we have had a good and objective debate, is that I have to wonder a little about the Socialists' approach to this. I am surprised that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has made a number of criticisms which, in my view, have been totally mistaken. When you hear Mr. Mattias Tesfaye today say that there has been a complete absence of information for the Folketing, so it is simply not correct. As far back as 2016, there was a consultation about this. There have been regular briefings, particularly by the Minister for Development, who, I know, has informed the conciliation circle of the development policy and humanitarian strategy. There have been consultations where both the Minister for Development and I have participated, and now there is a question here. That is why it was with some surprise that I was at least able to see immediately after the Question Time last week that Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that this is something weird and that the government does not have a bit of a bad case and that now she wants to get to grips with things. A bit of a bad case, I mean, I'm sorry. Sir. Mogens Lykketoft has led some of this, and I know that is certainly a politician whom Mrs Mette Frederiksen very much looks up to. So I simply think it has been very, very strange, strange, to hear the Socialists here today. And it's a party that calls itself a prime minister party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205145645	Thank you to the Minister and welcome to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205145657	Thank you for a good debate. I actually think that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen was the one who came closest to putting it all in perspective with this anecdote about the math teacher, who said that if the result runs completely off, compared to what one might expect, it's probably miscalculated. I think the debate here has also confirmed this. We stand guard over a strict immigration policy, where we look after Denmark. Why should we want to put it at risk? It just doesn't make any sense. We can rest assured of this, even in the legal assessment that has been sent over, where it is clear that the declaration is not legally binding, that it does not impose new legal obligations on the countries, that it does not establish popular customary law in itself, that its application as an interpretation will be extremely limited and, finally, that Denmark continues to establish its own policy on foreigners sovereignly. That is the case, and therefore there is no need to make any reservations about this statement. There is good reason why we should clarify some Danish views in an explanation of vote. One might then ask: Why even join in? I am, of course, pleased that there is a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament that reaches the fairly clear conclusion that, of course, because illegal migration is a cross-border, global problem, and that, moreover, there are people who are legally migrating, who are also affected by their human rights and who are offered pitiful conditions. The world has to respond to that. It's a problem that doesn't go away by itself. This is a problem which requires cross-border cooperation between countries and which we cannot only solve by tightening up our own legislation, but which also requires our commitment. Denmark cannot solve this problem alone, and we cannot solve it alone by questioning the value of international cooperation with the countries that we need to be persuaded to comply with our standards, for example. in the field of readmission. So when Mr. Mattias Tesfaye says that the government is misinformed by saying that this should strengthen our ability to return, sir. Mattias Tesfaye watch. It would weaken our ability to make repatriation agreements if we had to negotiate with African leaders, based on the fact that we have said no to this pact. It will improve our ability to make repatriation agreements, that we can refer to a declaration in which African leaders once again declare what is, in fact, already an obligation under international law, that people should be taken home. So it reinforces our possibilities. I understand that the Social Democrats were surprised. I fully share the Minister for Integration's assessment of this. I simply cannot understand why we are surprised at a process that has begun while the great Nestor of Social Democracy was President of the United Nations. I cannot understand why one is surprised when I myself, of my own motion, have taken up this matter in the Foreign Policy Name and offered, of my own motion, to ignore legal assessments and, of my own motion, have told of the work that the Danish Government has done to try to create support for an explanation of vote. It was Mrs Mette Frederiksen who, after Question Time last week, created complete confusion about this by going out and saying: then I think it is because the government has a bad case. That is the way in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen referred to this issue, which has been the process for two years and which, in my opinion, helps to strengthen our ability to conduct our own policy. This statement is not perfect, it is a step in the right direction, a first step in the right direction. Attitudes are fine. We can't agree on everything. We do not need to agree on the value of international cooperation either, but I hope that today's debate has helped us to have at least a debate based on facts and not on myths, and I hope that today's debate has contributed to that. Against this background, a minister from my government will take part in that meeting in Marrakech next week and, when the declaration is then to be adopted on 18-19 December at the UN General Assembly in New York, we will give an explanation of vote stating that we have every opportunity to remain vigilant about our own policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150102	Thank you, Prime Minister. As the very last, the raisin in the sausage end, it is Mr. Martin Henriksen, who gets to round ultracards. Because we're past the prescribed time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150114	Thank you very much. I shall try to be as brief as possible. In any case, it can be said that the Radicals are happy, that the Enhedslisten is happy, that the SF is happy, that the alternative is happy, and the question is: is the government concerned now? That could be the question, and there is reason to be. The Danish Government should not accede to the UN Declaration. There should be no doubt that this is the position of the Danish People's Party. There should be no doubt that it is not in Danish interest to accede to a declaration that everything else equals up for more immigration then one can discuss whether it is legal, political and so on. It's moving in the wrong direction. We have, of course, noted that the government, in the form of an explanation of vote, will have reservations, but overall it is still not moving in the right direction, and that is certainly not a good statement for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150210	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. I should have said now that since no one else has asked for the floor, the debate has ended, but it is not true at all, because a great many have asked for the floor, but the conditions for an urgent question are two hours, and if you want it to continue, you have to ask for a new one. I would like to say that, since there are no more people for whom we have time and who can ask for the floor, the debate has ended. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 6 December 2018. Then I would like to ask that we take two minutes to prepare for the questions, and you do so by logging out of that seat if you do not usually sit in that seat, that is to say the seat you have been in. If you don't usually sit there, you log straight out. It'll be easier to get back on when you get down to your own spot. In two minutes we will resume the meeting with questions to the ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150338	Then we'll resume the meeting. I can see that all those involved are few seats. I must inform you that those of Jesper Petersen (S) under No. Questions Nos 5 and 6 S 304 and S 303) to the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, respectively, are deleted at the request of the author. At the same time, I should like to inform you that there are no questioners on question No. 4 and 7 (Question No 4 and 7) S 302 and S 309). I should also like to inform you that those of Rasmus Prehn (S) under No. Question No 18 and 23 S 294 and S 295) to the Minister for Education and the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing respectively shall be removed at the request of the author. The questions will be answered on Wednesday 12 December. I should finally like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 24 by Karen J. Klint (S) to the Minister of Church (Question No. S 263) is deleted at the request of the Minister and the author. The question shall be put to the vote on Wednesday 12 December 2018. Then I think we are ready to move on to the next item on the agenda, namely the answer to questions to the ministers. The first question is to the Minister for Justice, and the questioner is Mr. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150453	I would ask the questioner to read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150455	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister consider that conditional sentences for violence against people in public service are reasonable and does the Minister consider it satisfactory that the vast majority of penalties for violence against people in public service are in the lowest part of the criminal framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150511	Thank you. Let me begin by stating that violence against people in public service is totally unacceptable. It is violence at all. The public employees work every day for Danish society, perform an important task for our community, and they deserve us to take good care of them. Violent assaults against public servants must therefore trigger harsh and cash penalties. In my view, suspended sentences for violence against public servants should be virtually non-negotiable. Indeed, it is clear from the case law that violence against people in public service is punishable by unconditional imprisonment. There is a tradition in Denmark of setting penalties, so that the upper part of the penal framework is normally reserved for particularly serious cases. Having said that, however, the measured penalties must be at a fair and reasonable level. Therefore, the punishment for violence, including violence against public servants, has been lifted several times in recent years. This happened, among other things. in the context of the respect package, in which we tightened the sentence by one third for violence against public employees in the context of serious disruption of public order and violence against public employees in their spare time. In addition, we have, most recently, increased the penalty for serious violence by one third. It is a sharper one, which will also apply to serious acts of violence against public servants. In addition, last week, a bill was first examined in this Chamber which calls for the punishment of threats, harassment and vandalism against people in public service to be tightened up. In this regard, I would like to say that I will call the parties to the agreement behind the respect package to a meeting on the status of the initiatives in the respect package.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150653	Thank you. I think it is very wise to call the parties behind the respect package. When we have taken this up, it is not because the Minister's reply so surprises me very much, namely that when you are violent towards public servants, you obviously have to be severely punished. When I've taken this up, it's because we only made the respect package a few years ago. Then we have just first dealt with a legislative proposal that also intended to do more serious work in this area, but at the same time there are regular stories coming from real life, where people who have done something that we think is really bad get conditional prison sentences. I just don't understand. The latest case we could dig up is from the end of September this year, when a 17-year-old gets 40 days suspended in jail for having beaten and subsequently kicked a female policeman in the face. And I have to say that it simply falls to me when, during this parliamentary term, the Folketing has said several times that this is what we want to do. We want a hard-on course, a hard-on course, towards people who cannot behave properly, for example. Our police. It could also be against our prison officers, who are also under pressure, but public employees in general. In other words, the Folketing decides that this has to be done, and otherwise we can run into these stories from time to time, thinking that it seems completely ridiculous with the level that has been set up. We don't think that's gonna work. We simply think that these people need to be dealt with harder, and we do not understand either that, when the penalties for this are generally so high, the bulk of cases can fall into a part of the criminal framework that is so low that if you had to make a figure to put it up, it would be difficult to see it coming up from the bottom line, what the level really is, in relation to what the framework allows. Therefore, we would like to have outlined a path by the Minister to how we can get into an upper part of the framework so that we can ensure that even harder cuts are made. Will the Minister deliver it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150906-2	I'll try to see how many answers I can get. Now it is an oral round of questions and answers here, and that is why I do not have a Chineseman's chance to say what lies behind specific criminal proceedings. What I know is that the case law is that it is unconditional prison, and the prosecution is therefore instructed by the Attorney General that there should be a clear claim for unconditional imprisonment as a clear starting point. What I can say about that is that, of course, I assume that when that is how you are instructed, it is also what you do. Then I cannot say anything about individual cases. And if we are to look at the actual level of punishment, that is to say to get the framework used, then I think that is something we should talk about when we talk about, among other things. meet to talk about the respect package. Because I believe that we share views on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205150953	So let me make a proposal to the Minister today. We could imagine turning this into a minimum penalty simply because we have done a great deal on the part of the Danish Parliament. It is a large majority in the Folketing that has been committed to tightening up this area, and it does not seem that this is really reflected in practice. At any rate, there are still cases that get through. So will the Minister be able to help ensure that, in the event of violence against public servants, there is a minimum bar because it simply cannot be imagined that the penalty should be lower?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151029	I think it might be very difficult. Violence is generally characterized by being so different, so violent cases can be many things • that it can be really difficult to indicate both a normal penalty and a minimum penalty. I think we should be very careful with minimum penalties, especially in cases of doubt. Perhaps one can imagine here that if there is a minimum penalty, depending on what it is, there will be an increased tendency to say that then the insecurity must benefit the accused by being more reluctant to judge the person guilty. But I think we should look at it openly. If we can see that the practice of unconditional imprisonment that we have said must be practice is not practice, we need to find out how to do something about it. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151118	Well, it's kind of paradoxical. On the one hand, in the opening reply, the Minister says that the Minister really thinks that the starting point is that you should go to prison if you are violent towards public servants. On the other hand, I can pull up a case from the press that someone has kicked a female policeman in the face and got away with probation. Then, of course, there is the whole question of how to pay it. Well, our starting point is that if you do, there is no grey-zone problem. When you kick somebody in the face, there's no gray zone. It's just that you've clearly crossed the line. We cannot even imagine there being a chance of living with it triggering conditional prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151205	I am also surprised, and that is also why I am saying that the case law is that it should provide unconditional imprisonment. I have no idea what is in this case, but as it is presented by the questioner, it sounds strange to me, especially when the case law is that it should provide unconditional imprisonment. I just think we should look at that without prejudice. I think that we have exactly the same interest: that people are punished when they engage in violence. And, of course, we have together tightened up the penalties. I think I mentioned in my speech here that we have done so three times. We must, of course, keep an eye on the fact that this happens, because otherwise everything we go and do here makes no sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151239	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 to the Minister for Justice, and the questioner is Mr. Peter Kofod from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151251	Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that a shopkeeper in Silkeborg who had his business robbed for products for 0.25 million? kr., and who after the plunder published surveillance images of the perpetrators, is liable to pay for his deeds, and does the Minister, like the Danish People's Party, believe that the current rules actually make the victim a criminal and criminal victim?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151313	I would like to begin by saying that crime cannot be accepted, just as it is never fair to be exposed to crime. This applies to all types of crime, including shoplifting. That is why, in mid-November, I launched a series of initiatives designed to strengthen efforts to combat shoplifting, so that traders have a good framework for running a store. This means, among other things, that areas particularly affected by shoplifting need to be strengthened and that we need to strengthen information for shops so that they know where and how to set up, for example. Monitoring. Then, here in the Folketing earlier this year, we adopted an amendment to the law on television surveillance, so that it is possible for operators under a number of conditions to share surveillance images in an internal system so that you can tell each other that there are some at stake. But you cannot share your own surveillance photos of suspected perpetrators on social media, regardless of whether they are possible perpetrators of a crime committed against you. Sharing social media images is happening to the general public, and we therefore need to make sure that the people who are shown in public spaces are actually some who are perpetrators and that we do not bring other random people into such a context. We cannot therefore take the law into our own hands. That's not gonna work because where's the limit? That is why we have made an arrangement for the police to publish surveillance images collected by citizens who have been exposed to crime and for whom the police want information. The citizen can then share links to the police website on social media or otherwise. With this arrangement, it's the police who decide whether to share pictures or not. Of course, such a division from the police must take place as soon as possible, so that it will have the greatest possible value for the investigation. In this way, I think that we balance the consideration between, on the one hand, helping to prevent theft and, on the other hand, ensuring that innocent people are not displayed on publicly available websites, from which it may be difficult to be deleted if it later appears that it was due to a mistake. I think that is the right balance. We can all understand the frustrations that such a shopkeeper must have, but you can't take the law into your own hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151526	We have been following this kind of case closely, and we have tried so hard to raise it with both the Minister for Justice and also with the Minister's predecessor in the post during this parliamentary term to see if we could do anything to loosen up. We simply cannot have a large group of entrepreneurs in Denmark feeling completely powerless and abandoned. On the one hand, we are doing everything we can to call the police and to ensure that there are some people from society who can get out to deal with this kind of crime. On the other hand, you experience that you are left behind by those who really should take care of you, and when you so deeply frustrated about it takes matters into your own hands, yes, then society has resources again. Then society can have the resources to punish. It seems quite the other way around, I think you do it this way. I don't think it's okay. In fact, I think we treat our shop owners very, very badly in Denmark. It's been documented on TV lately. Now it's documented again in Silkeborg. I think that we are putting people who take a great deal of risk at risk, putting jobs in motion, giving life to our smaller towns around us, in a really, really bad situation. We have made some improvements, for example. the arrangements for the publication of photos referred to by the Minister. It is also, I would say, a product of a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. I also believe that the Social Democrats should be mentioned in this context, which, after all, supported the proposal that was put forward and which was then adopted. I would just like to suggest to the Minister that that scheme be evaluated. So, first of all, what does the Minister think of such an evaluation? Secondly, does the Minister think that the rules that exist today could be further loosened?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151717	I always think it is good to evaluate the legislative measures that are being taken. Now this is from May 25th, so it has to work just as well before we can draw in lessons. But I think it makes sense to evaluate things, certainly. Then it will be mentioned that we need to relax further. A relaxation must be seen in relation to the fact that we have a data regulation, a data protection law, which we had a lot of talk about in this Chamber at least, and which must play along with what we should be allowed to do. And where is that balance going? I am quite sure that the questioner also agrees with me that we cannot have a society where you take the law into your own hands and hang people who are perhaps innocent for crime. That must also be the case, even though I agree with all the considerations about the self-employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151804	I would venture to claim that if a group of people goes into a business and fills their hands with different products and swarms out the door again, yes, then you can discuss the legitimate business of it. It is also possible to discuss the administration of what is then done and how much the authorities really do. You can also discuss the rules for insurance. Today, there has to be something more inside. There's got to be force or violence or something like that to get these effects back. So it's really, really much money our shopkeepers lose when it's just stealing in quotes. So another question is: could the Minister imagine changing some of the rules that exist for what it takes to insure these people so that they could at least get back some more of the money they lose?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151857	Now I am so honest: to the extent that it is my resort, I am happy to discuss it. I am simply on the verge of doubting what is mine or not, but I am happy to discuss it. Well, I don't have an opposing interest in Mr. Knox's case. Peter Kofod. I guess we all have an interest in shopkeepers being treated properly and that they are left behind. I think that's what we have no interest in. We have seen some grotesque examples, and that is also why we have instructed the police that the assessment of whether or not images should be published should be carried out quickly. It's not like that they're gonna have weeks for. We've seen a completely grotesque example where they've spent 5 weeks on it. But within 24 hours, sharing the pictures quickly makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205151941	Would the Minister agree with me that it is a bit funny that when shopkeepers report, for example, Shoplifting on the big blade, is there some who say that they are being met by the answer that the police do not have the resources to deal with it right now, so they have to send an email or call another time, but when the shopkeepers take matters into their own hands and put pictures out, do the community have the resources to come after them, and then the police have time?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152011	It may be a rather populist approach to it, I think. The thief you have to find is all over the mountains, and you have to start the investigation, and you can do that by sharing pictures with the people, and I agree that you have to. I don't think it's gonna take such a big piece of evidence if a store owner puts it out himself. I understand all the frustration. I'm just asking that we consider just twice whether we can have a society where we say that you can take the law into your own hands. And where's the limit if we're gonna change the law? Because I know that this is, of course, what the questioner is going to ask. It is not, of course, because we are being called upon to take the law into our own hands; I fully agree with that. I think this is a challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152049	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod and the Minister of Justice for today's work. And welcome to the Minister of Finance and to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, who is next asking, and that is question 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152103	I read out: How will the Minister ensure that lawlessness is avoided when dealing with amendments to the Financial Act for 2019, in view of the fact that the Financial Law Agreement for the second year since 2002 has not been concluded by the end of November, except for the 2008 election year?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152119	Now I could say that there is something wrong with the questioner's calendar, because last Friday we presented not only a financial agreement, but actually three agreements, namely a change in Denmark's foreign policy, a pension reform and a financial law, and on Friday when the time was around. 15, it was still the month of November, which is why the whole premise that we had not reached it by the end of November is actually wrong. However, on a more objective level, I would like to say that it is true that we have completed the Finance Act later than we have done in the past. However, we have completed it earlier than we did last year, and last year we reached it in such a way that, when we arrived at the third reading, the chairman of the Finance Committee of the Danish Parliament found that the amendments had been transmitted, that the parties had had time to deal with them and to deal with them, and that the vote had gone according to plan and according to what was expected. This year we've had one more week and one more weekend to get things straight. We have been working hard in the Ministry of Finance since the agreement was presented last Friday. Some have probably just taken a little extra rest over the weekend to get some sleep out, but otherwise we have been going on, and we can also soon send the amendments that come on the basis of the agreement to the Parliament's Finance Committee. And then we and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior are currently, as always, in the process of making an Economic Statement, so that the government can also present the assessment of how the Danish economy looks forward-looking, but I can already reveal in very short form that it looks good. There is a recovery in Denmark, the economy is under control, the money fits, and we take care of the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152313	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152314	I have chosen to maintain the question in its current wording, because when the question was asked on Friday it was 12 noon, and at that time it was quite right and it was at the end of November. What is the primary intention of the question is to obtain a guarantee from the Minister for Finance that there will be no lawlessness, and it has not become less topical since the government has just reached an agreement which, among other things, has been signed. In other words, you have to adapt some services. We know from the past that there have been challenges when benefit adjustments have had to be made in order to be able to implement it in the right way, including in terms of legislation, so that Payout Denmark has been able to avoid mistakes in this respect. were linked to the changes made to housing benefits. Therefore, it is also perfectly understandable that the government has an interest in the legislative process which is now taking place in the Danish Parliament, and so I would just like to draw the attention of the Minister for Finance to the fact that the Secretariat of the Danish Parliament has prepared a note to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and in that it makes explicit the following point: If the parties also have to have a deadline of 3 working days this year, that is what they also had last year, it will give the secretariat 4 days for processing. The work last year was very under pressure and the Secretariat does not consider that it is possible to have under 4 days to process, confer with the parties on the amendments, proofreading etc. In other words, there is a concern in the Secretariat of the Danish Parliament about this, and the opposition parties will have less time to prepare their amendments than is necessary for the administration of the Danish Parliament to confer and ensure that the amendments drawn up are correct and correct. Therefore, my concern as to whether we can be sure that there will be no lawlessness in this discussion of the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152532	I am actually glad that it was read out of the note where, as I remember from memory, it said: if there are less than 4 days to work, you cannot guarantee that there is no lawlessness. Then one must only welcome the fact that with the time frame, with a financial agreement concluded last Friday, there is clearly more time than what would otherwise be. I expect the amendments tabled by the government to be forwarded to the Folketing as soon as possible; we have a third reading of the Finance Act on 19 December, which means that the parties will also have the opportunity to table more amendments. And I will look forward to and look very carefully at whether social democracy will then also come up with amendments that comply with the many promises that are currently being made, including the funding of the many promises that are being made. I will be very pleased to read that when we hope to have a fairly detailed catalogue of Social Democratic amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152631	That's ridiculous! I am seriously concerned that we can ensure that we have legislation implemented in the Finance Act in such a way that no mistakes are made again. The opposition has 3 days and the government has had since the end of August to complete its Finance Act. What is this nonsense? Can I have a simple answer: can we be sure that there will be no lawlessness in the way the Finance Act is treated?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152712	There is no reason to feel offended by the cuffs if you do not intend to table amendments, because then you do not have a problem. I just said that we can deliver easily at some point, so you have more time than what is stated in the notice that was there. After all, we have said about benefits for pensioners that we will not be able to do so until 1 January. The questioner would have known, if he had read through the agreement, that it would not be until spring 2019 that there will be a re-regulation from New Year. So there is nothing illegal about benefits or anything else, and that is clear from the agreement, and I thought the questioner actually knew that. That is why I have been able to make the request and call for the Social Democrats to table amendments so that we can see whether the party is financing its wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152754	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152755	As I am told, we may have the amendments tomorrow, and we will of course look forward to that. If my assumption is correct, what the Minister has just said is that no, you cannot actually get the services properly in place until 1 January, and that has been taken into account, but I was not aware of that, but it is good that the Minister can inform me about it. You have then taken the consequence of re-regulating. But it is also an expression of the fact that the government itself has not even been able to get its affairs ready on time, and it is, in fact, an emphasis that it is extraordinarily important that in a situation as under pressure as this one is aware that there is no lawlessness.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152840	Parliament must always be aware that there is no lawlessness, and that is why we have already said from the start that we cannot pass legislation, changed in Payout Denmark, and put it in place until 1 January, and that is why we have quite openly and honestly said that it will happen during the first months of spring 2019, and then you make a post-regulation, so that the pensioners in the agreement made by the government and the Danish People's Party will have a boost in their benefits • exactly as agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152909	I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, and thank him. Benny Engelbrecht for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Fourthly, before we start, I should like to say that this is for the Minister of Finance and that the questioner is Mr. Jens Joel, and that the enquirer doesn't participate in this round. So it is only the two people mentioned who are participating.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152932	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister think it is fair that 10 percentage points of reduction in the top tax on income from property profit, rent income, etc. are granted??
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205152944	It is the case that I do not agree with the interpretation of the tax rules that this should be a special reduction. It is a special form of taxation because capital taxation is something other than income taxation. Capital taxation is, of course, the taxation of the return on savings that you already had. I mean, the fact that today I have a sum of money that I can choose either to spend or save for later use. If I choose to use them now, I can buy a particular item. If I choose to wait and spend them on a later consumption, the goods will all be equally more expensive... that's what we call inflation. The taxation of the return on capital must therefore correspond to what is actually a fair tax, even if we know that inflation eats a little bit of the return we get from it. It is the case that if you take the general estimates of interest rates and inflation from the Ministry of Finance in the longer term, we estimate an interest rate of 4.5%. and an inflation rate of 1.8%. If it is taken into account that out of the return you get some of the value will have been removed because there is inflation, then the tax we currently have is in fact equivalent to an effective tax on the return of approx. 70% I think that is actually fair. If one were to think that the tax rate should be 10 percentage points higher, this would be equivalent to a tax on the real rate of return of 87 per cent. I think that is unfairly high. There may then be a political disagreement about that. Social democracy believes that income should be taxed at 87 per cent. This will mean that savings and investment in companies and other activities will be hampered in Denmark. We already have the problem that far too few investors and too few entrepreneurs can get Danish capital, so many of them choose to go abroad. And with the proposal put forward by the Social Democrats, it will only get even worse. We need to have a return on capital in Denmark, which means that some will save up also in order to be able to have capital available to investors and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153200	Thank you. I think we need to keep some things separate. I would like to discuss with the Minister for Finance later whether we should have tax rules that compensate for inflation. That could be interesting. I understand that those at the top of society would very much like to ensure against inflation, but with regard to the LO employee, who may not get a wage increase that matches inflation, the Minister for Finance could say whether they want a reduction in the tax base for them. However, I also think it should be borne in mind that half of the capital income that we are discussing here, what is paid top tax, comes from housing-related property-related income, and I think that when the Minister of Finance makes the calculation he makes, it is, of course, on the basis of a relatively lower rate of return than that which is the case for very many real estate transactions. We are not talking here about the houses that people live in. Here we are talking about places where you invest, without it being for your own home, but for speculation, investment in the real estate market, which can be good and sensible, but which, frankly, we in the Social Democratic Party think you should be taxed, and where we do not think there is any reason for you to pay a lower tax on such income, on money that you have invested in land that has become more valuable after they have been set aside, or houses that have become more valuable before they have been sold on and in which you have not lived at any time, and then you have to pay less tax than if you went to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153330	If we take it with the LO employee, it is the case that the wage has been agreed after it has to rise, so that there can also be room to cover inflation. If the Social Democrats want us in the Folketing to interfere in wage formation in the labour market, that is news. I would just like to say that, as far as I am concerned, I do not want to interfere in wage formation. I want to interfere in taxation, and it is the case that, as taxation is year by year, taxation is consistent with the inflation of ordinary wage increases. When we come to this area, the question is whether we want there to be capital formation in Denmark, which also has a tax that makes it possible to collect some money for, among other things, investment in companies. There is the huge problem that too few Danish companies today can find Danish capital when they need to expand. Too many companies are being sold too soon. If the questioner takes a trip to Silicon Valley in California, you will experience an excessive number of Danish companies who have chosen to settle in the United States, not because conditions are better on frames or ideas or labour, but because capital was present there. That is why we need it, and that is one of the reasons why we need it. What has happened to the share savings account and other things, to work on the fact that ordinary Danes with regular wages can also save without tax being too high, and the rule that dates back to 2010 and which was adopted at a time when Social Democracy did not vote against is actually a very good rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153456	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153458	I would like to know whether it is because the Minister of Finance does not believe that a division can be made when the Minister of Finance will only talk about companies and the money invested in companies but will not relate to one of the major generators of inequality, namely the housing market we have seen. When half of the income we are talking about relates to property, I think that the Minister for Finance owes an answer to why it should be less taxed, why one should have a special discount on one's top tax on such income rather than on one's labour income. That is, of course, just what I am looking for an answer to, and I can hear that the Minister of Finance would rather make it about something else, but I would really like to know whether it is because one cannot find out how to make legislation that can separate such things, or whether it is really more a strawman in defending a tax system that favours certain incomes rather than some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153553	No, I am replying as I am because I have actually prepared for the question that has been asked and do so in the light of the political proposal that has been put forward by the Social Democratic Party, that is, the increase in taxation. As I have understood the proposal, and I am glad to hear it, if it is different, it is a proposal that you want to increase taxation also on capital taxes, i.e. not just property gains, but all capital taxes, and that is what I would like to warn strongly against. With the model adopted by the Social Democratic Party, this will mean that some will experience a 87-percent tax on their real returns. I think that is far too high a tax. We have just received figures today that show that fortunately Denmark has left first place in the tax burden in the world to France. We are now only the second hardest-taxed country in the world, but it is still quite hard, and I do not think that 87-percent taxation is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153643	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153645	It is because the Minister of Finance goes in here and makes a pre-requisite on what it is that you earn, that is to say what the return on your investment is, and we are just saying that for half the figures are not so low that they can give the high tax that the Minister of Finance brings here. It is still so if we follow the Social Democrats' proposals, which would give a greater sense of reason that capital income is lower than wage income. When we say that we think it is fair to contribute more, it is very much because we have seen that a great deal of this money is invested, for example, in the real estate market, where returns are somewhat higher than what the Minister of Finance gives the impression of. In fact, it is also part of a discussion as to whether it is appropriate for groups in society to run from some others. I know that the Minister of Finance would rather discuss relocation companies in Silicon Valley. In fact, we are a little concerned about ensuring that there is not too much difference between top and bottom, and that is why we do not think it is fair to have this cut in top tax on very specific incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153752	But I am also concerned that there is not too much difference between top and bottom. The difference is that where I fight poverty, social democracy fights wealth. When I want to do something to get more people into the labour market, reduce the number of Danes who are outside the labour market, and fortunately these years, with quite a lot of success, move people from transfer income into the labour market, then the Social Democrats would rather fight wealth and fight against people saving in reasonable amounts. The fact is that the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party did not divide it into property tax and other taxes. It was simply a question of removing the ceiling on capital taxation, which would result in the end, not now, but in the long-term forecast by the Ministry of Finance, of having a 87-percent tax rate. I dare not think at all about what will be the low-interest and low-inflation level we have at the moment. Then I could not deny that it could even be higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153851	I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, and thank him. Jens Joel. We're skipping Question No. Question No 5 and Question No 5 President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7, which is for the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and the questioner is also here, Mr President. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153910	The question is: does the Minister agree that it is a problem for society that the richest percentage of Danes have doubled the share of total capital income over the past two decades?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205153921	Basically, I do not think it is at all a problem that incomes generally increase for the Danes. It is, of course, the case that we generally see an increase in prosperity for the Danes. Danes get more money in their hands. And that is because we have a broad-based recovery that benefits the whole of Denmark, i.e. people in work in both low-, middle- and high-income groups, and also distributed geographically. We do not immediately need to introduce new envy taxes, and this is true all around. Let me remind you that the richest percentage pays a very large and increasing proportion of total income tax. The fact that incomes may have increased a little for people in the upper part of the income distribution, and I say that they may have increased slightly, is not, in fact, a problem in itself, calling for any initiatives politically. I also think we should look at the fact that it is more nuanced than that, because if you end up in the development that is the basis of the question, which elements you take in when you look at the definition of capital income. However, we may perhaps have the opportunity to nuance in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154038	Thank you. In fact, I am not quite sure whether I understood whether the Minister considers this to be a problem. I'm glad the Minister thinks it's nice that people get more money in their hands. That is what we think in the Social Democratic Party too. What we are pointing to is that a very small part of the wealthiest percentage has now, if you may say so, barely doubled its share of the capital income. And it says something about that for some particular income • it is fortunately a little less on the income from work, where it is more evenly distributed • it is just the richest percentage, which has simply run from the rest and doubled its share of the revenue. And that will lead to a group in society running away from the others. It's not really about fighting wealth. After all, it is a question of keeping society together and ensuring a high level of equality, which, moreover, also business leaders now go out and appeal to one to hold on to. So I would like to hear the Minister's answer, if it is not a problem, that for this particular group of incomes we have actually seen a very, very high concentration of one percent. This does not apply to wage incomes, but according to the Minister's own calculations this applies precisely to these incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154156	I am glad that the questioner nuanced his original question and now said almost and that is what I really would like to nuance a little, even if you use what the questioner calls the Minister's own figures. For normally, what is termed imputed return on own housing will be recognised as part of the capital income. And that's what you do. to show that a large part of the population owns a dwelling that continuously returns a return. And if you have that concept, the proportion has only slightly increased from around 16 per cent. to about 22 per cent. of the total capital income in 2016. So whether developments are as dramatic as the questioner immediately suggests depends on what elements are taken into account in capital income. And there I think it is important that you bring with you several elements and not just take it in such a more one-dimensional way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154251	But when the minister makes these statements on a regular basis and sends them over to the Folketing and other places where you look at what is really going on with the inequality in Denmark, does the Minister agree that it is customary to write that we generally have a relatively great similarity, while in this area you choose not to conclude it, because there has actually been a development that is drawing towards greater inequality? The Minister can, of course, nuance it as much as he wants, but what is the problem here is that there is a group of incomes where the richest percentage runs off with a very large part of the cake, and then what I am asking the Minister is whether he thinks it is a political problem. If he does not, then the Minister is welcome to have that position. That's just the answer I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154338	If you start by having a starting point with something that is so nuanced by yourself, because it wasn't quite as they said, but almost as they said, then I come up with further nuances of it and say that it may not be so clear if you take it all in, then the outrage can, like it isn't shower in relation to what is factual. You also have to be very careful about how you look at these things: what is it for years you compare, how was the stock situation, for example. Just the year in question? Another thing to take with you is how it is in relation to various forms of capital income that you have through a life cycle. If you look at it over a life cycle, the distribution will not be nearly as biased as the questioner suggests, because it is the case that you get more of it both with shares and with housing and pensions later in life than early in life. That's why the picture is more nuanced than the questioner asks, and there's really no reason to be particularly concerned about this particular element.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154443	With this very last sentence, it might have gotten a little bit interesting, because there's no reason for the Minister to be concerned about this element. The second is just talk, because these are the Minister's own figures. It is the Ministry of Economics and the Interior in the publication Distribution and Incentives 2018 that has analysed how much of the total capital income is due to the richest percentage. This is where we see an almost doubling over the last two decades. Then it may be that it is because the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior believes that the Ministry's publications produce things unavoidably, but I ask whether it is a problem to have this development, and the Minister then says at the end of the last answer here that it is not important to deal with. It must then be taken as a political undertaking that the Minister actually thinks it is unproblematic that so much of the income goes to such a small group.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154536	Now we publish a number of quite reasonable and thoroughly prepared publications and analyses from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs, but it is always a pity if someone takes out a single figure and thinks that they have understood the whole world. The point is, you have to see this in a slightly broader perspective. For example, as I said, we need to look at the housing situation and what it means for the distribution of capital income, and we also need to include pensions, as I have just suggested, and if we do so, there will be an even less inequality than there will be if we only include the housing component in the basic amount. In other words, if you look at capital income in general terms, it is much more evenly distributed than what is at the root of the question, Mr President. Jens Joel has left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154623	Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Jens Joel. That brings us to the end of Question Time. 7. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8, and it's for the Minister of Children and Social Affairs. The questioner is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party, and she will now read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154639	Does the Minister consider that the differing and often very long processing times in the municipalities for applications for the allocation of a disabled car are reasonable, and what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure faster processing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154706	Thank you for the question. One might be tempted to answer very briefly with a no. No, I do not think it is fair that there are such long and so uneven procedural times in those cases. This is an issue that has been raised before. In January 2017, we published a best practice report by the Ankestyrelsen, which was to provide a concrete tool for bringing down the processing times in those cases. The board then gave a number of presentations for therapists and case managers in the Danish Social Protection Agency's car network on the report, and the municipalities also saw the report as a very good tool to streamline the procedures and also to reduce the processing times. It is therefore also my expectation that the report will actually lead to shorter and more uniform processing times in car aid cases. The figures that appear in the article to which the questioner refers are from 2017, i.e. the same year as the best practice report was published, and therefore it is also important just to say out loud that there are no new figures that can give a picture of whether this report works as intended or not. After all, on 1 January 2018, new rules came into force, new rules on simplified car support. And the new rules themselves should, of course, lead to shorter processing times. Therefore, it is also quite obvious that it is good to allow the new rules and the report some more time to work and then, of course, to keep track of developments on an ongoing basis. So what I am going to do now is send the best practice report to KL again with a clear call for a stronger focus on this very area, because as the article also shows, it is essential for a well-functioning everyday life that citizens with disabilities should not wait too long for answers to their application for support for disabled cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205154856	The Minister is absolutely right that this is not a new issue. I also travelled it earlier in 2015 to the then Minister Karen Ellemann, who also corresponded to this best practice, just as the current minister also corresponds to this best practice. But, you know, when can we expect it to work? It is not reasonable for there to be an average processing time of 36 weeks in the 98 municipalities. This article says it's from 15 to 84 weeks. It's totally unfair, even in relation to the people it's about. So now the Minister will send it to the municipalities again and again, and so did the former minister, with a call, as I understand it. So when can we expect results in this area? When can we expect people with disabilities who need a disabled car to be dealt with more quickly? It is, of course, the case in the legislation today that it must be as soon as possible. How does the Minister define as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155004	It is important to say here that there are no new figures. So I have a clear expectation that while we are talking here, it must be the case that the processing times are going down in the municipalities which have very long processing times. If you just see this best practice report, which was published in 2017, then one of the recommendations from then on was that it saves time for the car team to carry out the walking test itself, because it is clear that there is a time saving if, because of their medical background, the case workers are able to carry out the walking test themselves as part of the information of the case and therefore should not have external partners in the business. There are such a variety of good proposals that the municipalities can simply take. So for the time being, I have no basis to say that the municipalities do not take this into account and therefore do not work to reduce these processing times.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155100	The minister did not answer the question I asked. It is, of course, the case today that such an application must be dealt with as soon as possible, and we can surely agree as soon as possible whether it is 15 weeks or 84 weeks or 36 weeks. So what does the Minister intend to take of initiatives in connection with the fastest possible? What is the Minister's position on what is reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155130	What is reasonable and the only right thing to do is to ensure that the matter is properly clarified. It must be thorough, but at the same time it must also be ensured that the municipalities keep down the processing times. It is a priority, and it is, of course, because it has a huge impact on citizens who are waiting for too long. That is why I agree that the municipalities which have very long processing times should go in and find this report immediately if they have not already done so, and read what good opportunities there are in order to actually implement a number of these good recommendations in an easy way so as to ensure that the processing time is reduced for the benefit of those citizens who will not have to wait unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155217	Do I understand that the Minister is now going to send out a demand to the municipalities that they should comply with best practice and that the Minister demands that the processing times that are in relation to obtaining a disabled car be reduced? The Danish People's Party introduced that the processing deadlines should also be published on the municipalities' website, but the criticism has been that what helps with processing times when the municipalities do not comply with their own processing deadlines on their website. That is the second question I would like to ask here at the bottom of the coin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155255	What I am going to do now, and as I also began by saying, is to send the report to KL once again, so that they can then communicate it further, so that we bring to the attention of the municipalities that there is a challenge. Then I would just like to say quite frankly that there are two challenges in introducing procedural time limits into the legislation. The first is that by introducing time-limits for cases in a number of selected areas, there is also a risk of pushing other cases, areas in the back of the queue, and this is something we should be a little cautious about. The second challenge is also that if you set a specific deadline for precisely car support, it will also require funding. All you have to do is have it in your head and pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155338	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl and to the Minister. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9, and this is for the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, and the questioner is Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155354	Thank you. Does the Minister think that at this stage there are enough hands in the country's day care institutions to ensure that all children have the care, security and presence they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155407	Thank you for the question. One would almost think that this was an issue that was commissioned when we made an agreement on the Finance Act last Friday, giving priority to 1 billion. kr. to the children's area. It is relatively rare for a question to be dealt with at Question Time and to be able to enjoy so much over a billion. kr., which has been set aside on Friday before. In relation to the question of whether there are enough hands, with a new inventory from 2017, we have got a better insight into how the relationship between staff and children is • what is also typically called norms. For the vast majority of municipalities, the levels of norms are close to each other. This applies both in day-care institutions for the 0-2-year-olds and for the 3-year-olds and up to school start-ups. If we take the inventory, in 2017, there was a rating of 3.1 children per year. adult in day care for the 0-2-year-olds, i.e. the crèche area, and a rating of 6.2 children per year. adult for the kindergarten children. I take note of the fact that the standards in most municipalities are very close to the level which, among other things, has been achieved. SF and other actors have proposed in different contexts. That is why I am actually very pleased to note the very important point that parental satisfaction with daily offers is generally very, very high and that parental satisfaction is actually also increasing. At the same time we can also see from studies that by far, the vast majority of children are really happy to go to kindergarten. They have good friends, and they are very fond of the adults who are in their day offer. So the facts tell me that overall things are going well in most of our day offers. There are talented educators, committed, really solid, talented educational assistants, helpers and day care workers around our children in day care. Of course there are daily offers that are challenged and where local management, but also where local government in the municipalities must assess whether the organisation of the framework and the economy are in order. But I would insist that it is not the government's job to dictate how the management of each day offer should be carried out in the smallest detail. This is best known locally, because you know the children's group, the parents and also the staff's competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155625	Thank you. I'm asking because I saw something on Facebook one day, which, like, has made me think about this, about whether there are enough adults in the day institutions. It was a teacher in a picture that held up a sign saying: OK. 14.00 I was one educated educator alone with 23 children. There I thought it wasn't many educated educators for the many children she was with. I wasn't the only one who saw that picture. It spread like such a wildfire on social media, and it actually ended up with a number of educators and adults out in the day institutions at different times putting up these pictures to say: We've been trying to take this political debate for many years now. It has not worked, we have not got the boost that is needed, so now we show it in a very illustrative way that there are not enough adults. A sole time survey from BUPL shows that this actually happens quite often for educators • on average 1 hour a day • that they stand alone with 17 children. I am not an educator, and I find it very difficult to imagine how to get around to all children and listen to them, comfort them, be with them, play with them when you stand alone with so many children. That worries me, and that is why, in the SF, we are actually proposing what the educators themselves are proposing, namely that we make a minimum standard. You have, for example. in primary school, where you have a class ceiling, because it has been said that there must nevertheless be a limit to how many children there can be to one adult. So what I really want to hear is that now that the Minister can see that there is
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155817	Let me start with sir. Jacob Mark, who says a boost is needed, and then just pull out a few numbers. For when the SF was last in government, during the four-year period of Thorning, 500 million were spent. kr. in the area of day-to-day offers, on a boost which has not been shown to be significant at all afterwards. BUPL has not been able to see it in the norms, others have not been able to see it. So the 500 million. In other words, it has not been felt. That is what the Thorning government managed to do over a four-year period. So let me pull out what the bourgeois government has done within four years. Priority has been given to 1,000 million. kr. over the coming year and we have prioritised 580 million. kr. So within a two-year period we have prioritised 1.580 million. kr., which must therefore be held up against the 500 million Thorning government. kr. that couldn't even be felt.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155917	Now I was out locally, and it is simply not true that it was only 500 million. kr.; it was 500 million. kr. In other words, we were given that money over and over again in my municipality, and, by the way, it was not only 500 million. kr., we got set off, but 750 million. kr., which could be used over and over again in the municipalities. It is true that there were fewer educators, but there were also savings in municipalities due to time of crisis. But the Minister did not reply to my question: does the Minister think it would be a good idea to make a minimum rating just as you have a class ceiling in the primary school so we are sure that there are enough adults for the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205155951	I'm very concerned that it's out locally. I actually think so too, sir. Jacob Mark agrees with me that you know the children's group. This is where you know what the challenges are. This is where you can direct a special social classification if that is what it takes. To remove it from municipal self-government I am not prepared to do so for the time being. However, I think it is important to make it clear that within a two-year period the bourgeois government has first prioritised 580 million. DKK 1 billion, then DKK 1 billion. kr., whereas Thorning government, together with SF, prioritised 500 million. kr. that couldn't even be felt. I just have to say, it's 1-0 to the bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160032	The questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160034	I will come back with further questions to the Minister, who shows that the figures that the Minister mentions are not quite correct. But what I would like to ask is: the minister says that it will be interference in municipal selfgovernment to make a minimum rating, but you have a class ceiling in the primary school... is the minister against it? I also noted that the Minister was out to say that it might well be that one should make a rule as to how many there should be in the outer hours of the day institutions, because we can see that there are not enough adults. In other words, it is more an intervention in local self-government than it would be to allocate a minimum number of resources available to you locally. Why do you not want to set minimum standards if you want to manage the municipalities in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160115	Well, we have a government that has given massive priority to the children's area over the past few years, and we have also prioritised wisely. If you have to make minimum standards, it will cost 21⁄2 billion. kr. annual. And I believe that everyone who sits and is engaged in politics or is just interested in the development of society can understand and see that it is simply not possible to prioritise such a massive sum of money every year. Nor am I convinced that this is the best way to do it. I believe in the freedom to prioritise locally, and that is what we support. When we do exactly social norms, when we do day-offer reform, when we make the child's first 1,000 days, we do support locally, but do not take the decision-making power away from them by setting standards. And then there is a difference between having a teaching situation with a class and working educationally with the children in day care, which is certainly not teaching, but where you can have larger or smaller groups, you can have activities, and you can have games out on a playground. It is a different division of the day, and I believe that Mr. Jacob Mark is well aware when he sits and looks at what the difference between the school area and the day offer area is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160226	Thank you both to the Minister and to the questioner. The next minister to be asked is the Minister for Employment, and that is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, who would like the floor for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160240	Thank you. I have included two issues which are at the heart of the debate on retirement age. The first is this: does the Minister agree that the increase in the retirement age is adversely affected and unfair compared with the people who enter the labour market early because they have to work for many years before they can retire and will typically have far fewer years of retirement than those who are late into the labour market, and what will the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160312	Thank you. Today, in Denmark, we have a fixed and uniform retirement age which depends solely on one's date of birth and which is independent of gender and labour market history or other circumstances. In fact, I think that is very appropriate. It gives everyone a transparent and uniform horizon to plan for retirement. With a uniform retirement age, we also avoid the risk of speculating on criteria that give access to a former folk pension. If e.g. employment in certain sectors gives access to former retirement pensions, this would hardly be good for e.g.: mobility in the labour market. At the same time, there is also the risk that individuals will not always be able to grasp the economic consequences of early withdrawal. For those who are linked to the labour market and earn occupational pensions, early retirement will mean a permanently reduced standard of living as a pensioner. As can be seen from the financial agreement just concluded, the government is concerned that pensioners should have a better standard of living. That is also why we have agreed with the Danish People's Party that the pension should be lifted. Instead of lowering the retirement age, I believe it is absolutely essential to take action with better prevention in relation to labour market wear and tear. Among other things, it can be done. through a stronger work environment, where we can help to ensure both a better working environment, but also a greater focus on wear and tear and occupational injuries, so that you can also stay for several years in the labour market. I can also inform Enhedslisten that the negotiations on a new health and safety agreement started last week, when Enhedslisten was at the opening meeting. That is why I also hope that there will be an opportunity for us to come up with a political agreement in the coming months to ensure a better working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160504	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160504-2	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I certainly also hope that we can have a good working environment agreement that really obliges employers to ensure a good working environment. We see that as a major problem. That's just not what I was asking. I asked whether it is fair to have a uniform retirement age, which is constantly being raised. For example, it will. As a result of the agreement made in the so-called welfare settlement, an 18-year-old can only retire when she is 75 years old. If she enters the labour market at the age of 18, that would mean that she would be forced into a 57-year-old working life, whereas her classmate, who graduated from high school at the same time with her, and who has a long higher education, could, of course, get away with a considerably shorter working life, somewhere between 7 and 10 years shorter if we look at the average figures, i.e. a working life of only 50 years. My question is, and it is still gone: is it fair? It can be said that if we stick to a uniform retirement age, which the Enhedslisten basically agrees with is a good idea, then the problem would certainly not be so great if we maintained the retirement age we now have, namely 65 years. But the injustice is that the Minister, together with a majority in the Folketing, including the governing parties and the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, has agreed on a mechanism which means that when I say that a young person aged 18 gets a retirement age of 75 years, it is not caught out of the air. This shows the table handed over to the committee by the Minister himself. What is my question is: is it fair? Wouldn't the Minister like to deal with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160702-2	I would always very, very much like to address questions from Mr. Finn Sørensen. After all, here is a diligent member of parliament who asks a lot of questions. But I think we should actually be pleased that we are going to live longer. That is, in fact, a good message for the Danish people. When we come to live longer, it is also important that we contribute more to the welfare society, so I think it makes sense to adjust the retirement age accordingly. What is crucial then is to ensure that those who may become worn out or those who may find themselves in a situation where it will be necessary for them to change paths in their working lives are able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160744	I still think the Minister is slipping away on the question, and either it is because he does not think it is a problem, or it is because he does not want to deal with the fact that it is an unfair arrangement that we have. That's what I asked you. For the mechanism that the government is running on and that a majority in the Folketing is running on means that people who enter the labour market early get significantly fewer years of retirement than the highly educated, and that they often also get less well a senior life because of the working life they have been subjected to. So it's a question of justice in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160825	I understand the question, but it may be that there is something wrong with Mr. Finn Sørensen's ears, or that you don't like the answer. I am not in favour of a differentiated retirement age, as is evidently the case with Enhedslisten. On the contrary, I think that it is a good and healthy principle that we have a uniform retirement age, but that at the same time we ensure that those who are in a situation where they are unable to be on the labour market can either withdraw from the labour market or that they can either withdraw from the labour market when we are better able to secure a change of track which will enable you to change your career in the labour market for the many years you have there to change your career.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160903	Thank you. And we have a co-questioner. It's sir. Henning Hyllested, who has the floor for a question to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205160907	It is actually a good thing to follow up on the fact that just today there is a big post in the Ekstra Bladet In fact, it is one of my former colleagues at Esbjerg Harbour who gives his name to that statement. And with the answers that Mr. Finn Sørensen has now got, I wonder whether the Minister really thinks that there is a problem with people who are actually getting worn out, that there is a problem with continuing to raise the retirement age because there are actually jobs in this country and will still be that which makes it impossible to keep as many years on the labour market as is planned. This does not necessarily mean that you are completely broken and nothing can and may not have to go on early retirement. It just means you're worn out and you can't actually do the job you want to do. I am therefore surprised that the Minister, just as he said, does not really see that there is a problem with raising the pensionable age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161026	But there's still something wrong with the acoustics, I understand, for sir. Henning Hyllested also finds it difficult to hear what is being said. I fully recognise that when life expectancy is going to increase, and I hope that this is a good thing too, namely that the fact that we are getting older is a good thing. Of course, if we are to have the social model that we now have, we must also ensure that we then contribute by being active in the labour market. However, I fully recognise that we need to focus both on improving our working environment and on improving our working environment. This applies both to physical wear and to the psychological work environment and to ensuring that we are better able to ensure that we take advantage of the opportunities for change that may exist, so that, along the way, you can choose a different form in your work career, if that is what is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161117	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161118	This certainly requires that the work done on the working environment is in order. There you cannot say that the cuts that have been on the Labour Inspectorate for many years now are not least the cuts in the staffing, or what to call it, in the number of employees of the Labour Inspectorate, actually by over 100, depending on how far you go back. Insecurity is spreading. This can be seen from the studies that have been made of it. 52% of the Danes state that they are against an increase in retirement age and are worried about what should happen. How does the Minister intend to counter this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161201	I fully agree that we need to have a greater focus on ensuring better working conditions. That is also why we have set up a committee of experts which has now made recommendations which form the basis for political negotiations, to which Enhedslisten has actually been invited and has also come forward. I hope, then, that we can agree on a forward-looking and more offensive action on working conditions, which is also based on the whole discussion on guaranteeing the appropriations. Shifting governments have had a stop and go policy, also in relation to the Labour Inspectorate. I think so too, sir. Henning Hyllested must acknowledge that was under the former Socialist-led government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161243	Then we return to the right questioner, you might say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161244	Thank you. The minister wants to talk about the working environment, and that is very good. This is very much needed. At the same time, however, it is a recognition that the labour market is not in a state where people can hold to work for as long as the government and the conciliation parties intend. My question to the Minister is therefore: was it not reasonable to pause the retirement age, stop it where it is now, and then get things straight with the working environment before starting to raise the retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161319	There is, of course, a big difference between how the working environment is in the many industries that you can discuss. There is, of course, an opportunity today to withdraw from the labour market. There is the possibility of a senior early retirement pension, and there is also the possibility of an early retirement pension if that is the case. I just think we should do our best so that people do not get into the situation of leaving the labour market because they are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161347	Thank you both to the Minister and to the questioner. When we move on, it is actually the same minister we come across, and it is also the same question, and it is Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161356	Sir. Finn Sørensen for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161359	Thank you. So to the second key question in this debate: can the Minister answer what thousands of people have to live on, who have to leave the labour market long before retirement age due to wearing out or lack of qualifications, and does the Minister recognise that this problem will grow as the agreed and planned increases in retirement age, and if the Minister acknowledges that this is a problem, what will he do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161427	Thank you. We're gonna stay on the same street. Fortunately, it is the case that for those who cannot work until the age of retirement, there is now the possibility of withdrawing in whole or in part. We've got one of them. the possibility of flexible jobs for a few hours a week, which has greatly benefited the group of older people. It is basically positive. It has been found that in the group of older people with reduced working capacity there are more who today maintain a link with the labour market rather than moving to early retirement. In addition, with the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, we have created a better place in the labour market for people with reduced working capacity. Thus, people who are worn out after a long working life also have better opportunities to get a job that takes account of their ability to work. And for those who have such a negligible capacity to work that they can neither now nor in the future meaningfully be part of the labour market, there is, of course, the possibility of a senior early retirement pension or an early retirement pension. There are also some who lack the qualifications required in the labour market, which is why we have also introduced a number of training initiatives in the context of the employment reform for insured unemployed people with the lowest level of competence. These initiatives should help, inter alia: seniors and other unemployed people focus on all upskilling and more job-oriented training and thus also help them closer to the labour market. In the tripartite agreement which I myself negotiated last year, Tripartite Agreement III, we also developed the switch-over scheme so that employees in worn-out industries will have better opportunities to participate in retraining courses, basically something that is really necessary. I do not think that the increase in the retirement age is problematic. What is crucial is that we live longer, as I have said, and that in itself is positive. A higher retirement age must, of course, help to ensure that more people spend some of these healthy years on the labour market, thereby also helping to ensure that we can continue to afford everyone a decent old age. In addition, as recently as last Friday, we have made a whole series of agreements with the Danish People's Party, which in fact also encourage us to have better conditions, not least for our older fellow citizens, than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161642	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161644	Thank you. The minister talks about the possibility of retreating. Everyone knows that the senior early retirement scheme is used by very, very few people for the simple reason that it is very difficult to get access to, because it is the same tough requirements that are in order to get a senior early retirement pension as there is to get an early retirement pension, where the number of new awards has fallen quite drastically. Would the Minister like to confirm that the Minister has helped to reduce the only withdrawal scheme which provided for a clear right to employees, namely the early retirement scheme, that is to say that the Minister, together with the Danish People's Party and other civil parties, cut the early retirement period down to three years and that this 3-year early retirement period follows the retirement age, that is to say, it is becoming less and less valuable for the people it was actually intended? It is, of course, the naked truth, that the Minister talks about the possibility of withdrawal, but that the Minister is a representative of a group of parties here in the Folketing, which has reduced the scope for withdrawal, so that in practice the early retirement scheme is largely non-existent for the people to whom it was originally intended. The same applies to the daily allowance, where the Minister's party has reduced the daily allowance period, reduced it to two years and doubled the requirements for the re-utilisation of the daily allowance. The Minister's party has also helped to reduce sickness benefit, so they typically disappear after 22 weeks, when it was 52 weeks earlier. The Minister has helped to reduce the opportunities for cash assistance and the economy available, plus that the Minister is now taking the lead in making the lowest level of benefit, namely the integration benefit, even lower. So the question is again: what are all the people who go out of the labour market to live on?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161843	We got around well, you might say, in the Ministry of Employment's Resort and probably also a little outside the question here, but that should not keep me from answering Mr. Finn Sørensen. One can first of all welcome the fact that there has never been such a high level of employment as there is now in Denmark. This may not only be due to my efforts as Minister for Employment, but I nevertheless welcome the fact that we have an historically high number of employees. We also, fortunately, have a large reduction in the number of people on transfer income who, after all, help to ensure that more people become part of the working community. What I think is important to ensure is that as many people as possible have the opportunity to get a job and that we also encourage that it is always worthwhile to work. And so I have to say that the benefits that we have in Danish society are fully at the heart of them, I think at any time one can defend, because there must now be a difference between being on the labour market rather than being on transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205161937	Yes, but should the difference be as dramatic as it is for people who go out of the labour market in the mid-fifties and in the last half of the 50s, either because they have worn out what the Minister's initiative in the field of health and safety has not been able to prevent so far or because there is simply no room for them because they do not have the qualifications needed because training has been reduced? The question is: what should human beings live on until retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162011	First of all, we can indeed welcome the fact that there is progress when we look at how many over 60 years are actually linked to the labour market. I find that gratifying. But besides, I do not buy the premise that there is no possibility, if you are worn out, of getting a public service because it is there. Only here today I have set in motion a campaign to spread knowledge of senior early retirement, which is, after all, a two-fold scheme. There are not so many people seeking a senior early retirement pension, but one can then be pleased that among those seeking a senior early retirement pension there are very, very many people who receive it somewhere between 80 and 90 per cent. So that is, in fact, a good picture that it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162105	Thank you. Then we have a co-questioner again, and that's sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162109	Thank you. Nevertheless, the number of experts, economists, etc. have pointed out that there is a problem. Torben M. Andersen, who was the chairman of the Welfare Commission, says that there is an unresolved problem, and large pension companies point out that worn Danes risk being left without income and that it is therefore also necessary to find new alternatives if you want to continue to increase the retirement age as planned. After all, the wise men point out that there is actually an increase in the retirement age in the years to come, even if you compare it fairly sharply in the years to come, and they also say that there is a need for an alternative course, which then means that there must be several years of retirement with a retirement pension. Then it is just that I am thinking that the Minister must, after all, deal with that. I agree that the Minister believes that it is good as it is and that we need to have a uniform retirement age and something like that, but there are actually proposals which do not threaten the resilience of the Danish economy either and which, after all, contain some alternative solutions to this which benefit the worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162231	It then deserves to be explained what the solutions are that would then have to be on the table. The questioner never really did get that into his question. But please don't do this. I would like to stress once again that we must, of course, follow this issue of wear and tear closely, and I am also willing to look at further initiatives in relation to those who may be in a situation where they are worn out for a long life on the labour market. That goes without saying. We have arrangements today that allow us to leave the labour market, but I think we should be better able in the future to ensure that people do not get into the situation that they may be worn out, but better help them to have other job opportunities along the way in their careers on the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162325	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162325-2	Of course, I very much agree with that, but it will also require massive investment in, among others. The Factory Inspectorate, and it has therefore gone the opposite way over 15-20 years with the Factory Inspectorate and investment in the Factory Inspectorate, and it has been, as the Minister himself said, such a stop and go-something. I understand the Minister must correct me if I have not understood it correctly, because it can be difficult to read that 13 million has been set aside. kr. to the Labour Inspectorate plus 2 million. kr. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and I would like to thank him for his excellent report. kr. to simply maintain the current level and keep the skin on our noses in relation to the pruned labour inspection that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162406	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162408	Now it may be just outside the question here to discuss the Labour Inspectorate's finances. This is what we will be doing in the negotiations that are taking place now on a forward-looking approach to our working environment, and there I myself am putting forward a four-year agreement to ensure a firm course for the conditions under which the Factory Inspectorate has to work, including the financial conditions. I have also clearly signalled to the political parties that I am willing to discuss this, and we must then take that at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162440	Thank you. Then we return to Mr. Finn Sørensen as the main questioner. Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162443	Thank you. I note that the Minister has no problem with the increasing retirement age. He acknowledges that there are some health and safety problems and problems with some training, but he has no offer of any massive investment in a good working environment and some good training for people who do not have so much of that kind. Nor does he have any suggestion of increased withdrawal opportunities for people who cannot stand to work for so long. So I just have to say that the Minister does not care about the very large proportion of the population who are deeply concerned that they cannot stand to work for an ever-increasing retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162526-2	I'm sorry, sir. Finn Sørensen's own bill to make such an erroneous conclusion. I care about the people who are in the labour market. I would like to thank the many people who are helping to keep this society going. They deserve a great deal of praise. After all, it is no more than a year ago that we made a very ambitious tripartite agreement in which we spend 2.5 billion. kr. to improve the adult and continuing education system in order to address some of the challenges we are talking about here today. But I would also like to signal that we are going to have a constant focus on this in order to ensure a better working environment, but also to prevent people getting worn out of going to work. We owe it to you to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162607	Thank you both to the Minister and to the questioner. So we go further, and it is now for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. And the questioner is Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162621	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162623	Is this something that the Minister believes should be responded to when more studies, including two Wilke studies in Denmark in 2006 and 2015, show that young second-generation immigrants become more religious than their parents and put Islamic religion above Danish law?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162642	I have to say that I am deeply concerned that there are groups of young people who have been born and raised in Denmark, who believe that the Koran's instructions should be fully followed, because in Denmark it is therefore the democratic laws that apply, and no other laws and so it should be. If you live in Denmark, you have to take Denmark with the set of values that we have here. Unfortunately, there are parallel societies in Denmark, as Mrs Krarup also states here. It is parallel societies where women and girls are worth less than men and boys and where social control limits the freedom of individuals. There are people who are not related to the ordinary Danish daily life, who do not speak the language sufficiently, who do not work and who do not participate in the ordinary Danish daily life. These are areas where children go to institutions, schools, leisure homes, where the vast majority belong to groups reminiscent of themselves, and where you do not meet what you could call Denmark either at home or when you go to school or for leisure activities. It must therefore be said that it is not surprising, unfortunately, that there are trends in this direction, and that is of course also why we have taken a large number of initiatives together with the Danish People's Party to break up these parallel societies, because no one can be served with that, and certainly not Danes who have lived here always, and who for generations before us have laid the very foundations of the society in which we live and live. It's a foundation that needs to be intact.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162840	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205162841	Thank you for your answer. I think this study is very disturbing. There is freedom of religion in Denmark and we should not have a thought police, but it is necessary for everyone in the country to understand that one has to know and accept and respect Danish norms and traditions. The study here shows that there are more and more people who think that you should wear Islamic scarf; more people think that special consideration should be given to food and, for example, food. Asked for gymnastics and stuff. There I think it is very important that we as a country send out very clear signals that freedom of religion exists, but that does not mean that there is freedom to live your rituals everywhere in the public space there must be a limit. When you see that young people in this way fall back to religion, presumably to find a place to stand, I think that may indicate that you have failed in your integration policy. Of course, there may be several reasons why young people are seeking towards religion, and one should not ignore that, but it should be clear to them that there are some limitations on how much one can live it out in the public space of Denmark. And if it is the case that you are obviously not aware of these limitations, then it is because there has not been a clear and clear integration policy. In my opinion, it should be said loud and clear throughout the whole area, which is called the integration industry, in other words what immigrants and refugees meet in Danish society, that there are clear demands on what to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163053-2	I believe that the very best way to ensure this is to get parents into the labour market and to get children to go to institutions where all children are not alike, where you meet Denmark, where you meet the demands that we have here and where it is a complete matter of course that, for example, you meet Denmark, where you meet the demands that we have here. Girls and boys, women and men are equally worth living in a country with full equality, living in a country with freedom of expression, living in a country with freedom of religion. I therefore believe that the best way to do this is to challenge these people and thereby push them into Danish society. Then they will also be able to support themselves, and that is all that was missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163138	I agree with what the Minister says, but I think there is a problem with the fact that it is not clear at all for every single person who works in this area of integration. It can be people working in primary schools, in kindergartens, but also in language schools, and where people need to be integrated. Why do they not know exactly what integration is, what the objective of integration is, and why can they not inform people who come here that it is
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163218	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163219	Well, I guess we've also been discussing it earlier today, too, that there's some kind of empathy or stepping back a little; you're a little afraid to step on your toes. In my opinion, this is completely wrong because we are helping to support in a way or in a way this complete parallel view of the society in which we live. So I fully agree that it must be imbued with our values, our traditions, even when you meet in day care, at school or for leisure activities. But that's where we all have a commitment. I think it's really hard to legislate on this. I think that this is a commitment that we must all take on both large and small, because the small one sometimes helps to give this quiet and calm slip of value that no one really notices, and I think that is extremely dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163319	Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup in the last round on this question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163321	I do not think there is any need to legislate in this area. I see no problem in doing so, but I could well imagine that the Minister for Integration made a better goal of integration on the Ministry's website and communicated it better to everyone involved in this matter, so that it was quite clear to all of them. I do not think this necessarily has to be done through legislation and if there is a need for advice on how to formulate the objective of integration, for example. The Danish People's Party is very much at the disposal of integration practices in the field of practical work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163403	Well, I think we should consider that. It's always worth considering how we're doing this better, because obviously we're going to the same place, and then it's just a matter of being inspired by each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163420	Thank you, and we will keep both the minister and the questioner on the table, as the next question is also for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163428	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163429	What does the minister think can and should be done about integration if something • reaches a growing number of inhabiting Muslims believe that the Qur'an's instructions should be fully followed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163442	As I mentioned just now, I consider it extremely problematic that there are some here in Denmark, for example. children and young people who grow up in Denmark, who believe that the Quran's direction should be fully followed. As I also said earlier, it is only ■ and only It also means that the very foundation of freedom and equality is the foundation on which one must build one's life, and one must embrace it. Just as I did before, I would also like to fully acknowledge that we have parallel societies, but these are parallel societies, which we, together with the Danish People's Party, have very much begun to break up. Our ambitious goal is, of course, that there should be no ghettos by 2030, which means that not only are physical parallel societies, but also mental parallel societies, we need to get the break-up going. It's also to send out a clear signal that we don't want to do this. In addition, together we have also concluded a preaching agreement where some initiatives have been taken which also send a clear signal that anti-democratic values are not welcome in Denmark. We have, among other things. by making it punishable by criminal law to expressly approve terror and killing, rape, violence, incest, paedophilia, detention, coercion and multi-wifery if it is part of religious training. Finally, the national list of sanctions that we have introduced forbids foreign religious ministers with fanatical attitudes to come to Denmark at all. So I would say that the battle with parallel societies and with the thinking to which Mrs Krarup also refers here is a fight that must be taken on many fronts, and that is where I think we are well under way and that we are well under way together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163703	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163705	Thank you for your answer. I agree that the Imam Act, the Ghetto Plan, the new Financial Law Agreement are tools that I hope will be able to reduce this problem in the longer term. I think it is interesting that the Minister is • what should be said open to the fact that, in cooperation, we may try to describe the objective of integration better, and in this context I also think it is important to make some measuring instruments for integration. In the past, I have criticised the integration barometer, which I do not think is a serious suggestion of measuring integration in reality. I would like the Ministry of Integration to do more research in this area, which could then perhaps be used for different measuring instruments. I have recently asked questions about the last time immigrants' marriage patterns have been examined, and I look forward to getting answers to that. I believe that this is one of the things that should be looked at, but I also believe that the development of values should be monitored on an ongoing basis, because the studies that are part of the integration barometer are, of course, without an assessment of the values involved. There would be continuous value measurements, which are sometimes made, but which are not made regularly at all, being a very, very great advantage, I think. So some clear objectives and some clear practices communicated out to the integration apparatus, while at the same time having some studies that could measure it here to a greater extent, I think I could benefit the practical work of the people who are in Denmark, who must be integrated, which of course will still be some of them. But even if we have set all these things in motion, so that there will be fewer of them, it is nevertheless important that the fewer who are here will have the opportunity to integrate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205163912	I am very happy to discuss these things, because I think we have only one interest, and I can also hear that Mrs Marie Krarup thinks so, and that is to put an end to this injustice, because when you live in Denmark, you have to adopt democratic laws and take our foundations into account. That's as far as it goes. Then it is the case that there is more today than the integration barometer. There's, for example, there's... Our citizens' survey, and Mrs Krarup may be right to say that it may well be that both can be done better, and we will have to look at that. I agree with that, and I think Mrs Krarup believes that we cannot rely on the fact that it is the big newspapers that carry out studies in the ghettos and that these are the ones we should lean on. I also believe that we ourselves have an obligation to keep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164004	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164005	I think it would be an advantage if some better studies were carried out. I do not think that those who have been made so far are sufficient, nor do I think that they are sending the right signals, because when you do this study on citizenship and, for example, on citizenship. states that membership of any form of organization is a plus, it is a bad form of communication, because it is not a plus for integration if you join a Salafist organisation or something else. So there is also a need to carry out studies in terms of communication which show what we really think integration is and that it is then measured according to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164049	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164050	Now, as a starting point, I do not think that, in relation to associations, if you join a salafist organisation, it will count, because most of them, I am aware, are not dealt with by membership cards. That is why I do not think it can be done in this way. But that doesn't change the fact that there are some who have the thought set and whether it is with membership cards or not, is of course equally harmful, one might say. So there are clearly some things that it would be good to have an investigation done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164117	Membership of a Somali cultural association will count positively on the citizenship part. One might well wonder whether it is a positive development in terms of integration to be maintained in one's religious and ethnic identity. So I think there are some problems with these measuring instruments. We have discussed this before, but I think it would be a good idea to get started on making better instruments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164146	Yes, and instead of standing and bickering about such small things, one can say, and such a few things are called small technicalities, even though it is big in the real world, I think it is better to get started. I therefore agree that it does not matter which organisations you are a member of. And we can see that if we look into the ghetto areas, the probability of you being an association asset is actually almost equal to Danes. The problem is simply that it is precisely in the Somali, Pakistani or Turkish association, or where you come from, and that in fact merely supports the fact that you rely on what you came from, instead of taking into account what you have come to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164236	The minister said we should get started. It will then be with the next question that we do so. It is for the same minister, but the questioner is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164245	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of the fact that the number of non-Western immigrants has fivefold in 30 years' time and that in 50 years' time there are expected to be twice as many non-Western backgrounds as today, and does the Minister share the head of research at the Rockwool Foundation's concern that too many non-western immigrants are now outside the labour market and thus threaten the welfare state?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164313	For me, there is no doubt that the number of non-western immigrants coming to Denmark is of great importance to the challenges of our integration in this country, and I share the concern that too many non-western immigrants are outside the labour market and that this poses problems for the welfare society. After all, the problems are well documented, because in May the Ministry of Finance issued the report •Deprecise the net contribution of immigrants to public finances, and the report shows that non-western immigrants and descendants represent a permanent net cost to public finances of 33 billion. kr. a year. The explanation is, of course, that far too few people are in work and that too many are on public support. That is why we in the government, in cooperation with the Danish People's Party, have just agreed a change of course when it comes to foreign policy. We did so in the context of the Finance Act here most recently, emphasising that the clear starting point for asylum is temporary, that a residence permit must be withdrawn and denied extended, when there is no longer a need for protection, that, while here as a refugee, one must of course support oneself, and that one also has an obligation to take Denmark into account with the set of values that we now have here. Ever since the entry into force of the Left Government in 2015, we have tightened the rules, it has to be said, many times now, both in the area of asylum and family reunification, but also the conditions for permanent residence permits and citizenship. We have been all the way around, and some of the areas have been mentioned several times, because a strict and consistent and realistic immigration policy is therefore the whole prerequisite if integration is to succeed. It is, of course, also in this light that we can see that, after all, more people enter the labour market than before, but there are still a lot of tasks and problems to be tackled.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164525	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164526	Thank you. After all, everything the Minister says is true with regard to the measures that have been taken, tightening up and so on. I think it was last year, Kraks Fond published that 30 years of ghetto effort has failed, and at the same time a ghetto package has been made about every five years, but despite all the ghetto packages and all the tightenings that have been made, there are still massive problems, both economically and culturally, and now we have this projection to 2060 that shows that non-western immigration will double. In addition, the proportion of Muslims who believe that the Quran's words should be followed one hundred percent has increased. After all, we are facing some very massive problems despite all the rigours we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164615	Yes, we are still facing a number of problems, and that is why it is important, I think, that we are continuing along the path we have now set. After all, we are about to end decades, it has to be said, a failed integration policy, in which we have not really dared to make demands on people, and it is clear that we will not change that overnight. But I think it's uplifting to see that more people support themselves. Since we joined the government, 44,000 foreigners with a non-western background have entered the labour market 44,000. And you have to say that it is certainly a place where you are challenged also on the set of values, because it is among ordinary Danes. But having said that, to put it mildly, there is still some way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164703	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164704	Yes, and that is not just in relation to the labour market. Most of all we see in the Danish People's Party at the cultural level, and that is the problem. That is why we have to ask the Minister whether the Minister really believes that it is appropriate to sign the UN Migration Pact, which, as we know, is not legally binding, but which, of course, forms a kind of political precedent, one might call it, for how countries should act in relation to immigration. So it is true that it is not binding legally, but there will be some sort of attitude massage when you accede to that pact.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164737-2	I believe, on the other hand, that the waters part a little, because it is particularly important to consider that the migration pact is not legally binding and that a comma in Danish immigration policy is not being changed in the light of it. It is still us here in the Folketing who decide Danish immigration policy, and that is necessarily the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164806	Last round to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164806-2	But that may be correct right now. with a Left Government supported by the Danish People's Party, but what happens when there comes another government that has a different attitude? It will, of course, be guided by what is in the Migration Pact, which advocates an increase in immigration, which we want from at least parts of the red side. And then, of course, we have the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164830	Then it is the Minister who can answer when.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164831	So, unfortunately, I have to say that I do not believe that the UN Migration Pact is going to change a red government's foreign policy. I think they do that all by themselves. With the sluggishness that has been seen back in time, I am afraid that the migration pact or not, you will return to a completely lenient immigration policy as we have known it. Once the Radicals come to the table, we know what things look like, and they will then be well flanked by the Alternative and Enhedslisten and SF. So I have to say that I also have little hope that a red government will pursue a strict immigration policy or will continue that migration pact or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164916	Thank you to the questioner who puts it this way: when another government arrives. That could be said with one if. But we will continue with the same minister, namely the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. It's sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, who will now formulate a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164933	Thank you, President. The question is: what will the government do about a Turkish mosque in Aarhus getting the minar with the support of the Diyanet isleri Baskanligi, which belongs to the Turkish Ministry of Religion and thus Erdogan?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164954	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205164955	It's funny, because I was just thinking that I was really happy that I wasn't supposed to read it, because I don't know Turkish either. Having said that, however, I have not changed my position in this area either, I would say since I answered questions about Turkish funding of activities here in Denmark at the beginning of November. Foreign support for religious organizations is not in itself a problem; for example, After all, some Christian congregations in Denmark receive support from abroad, and we also support even Danish churches abroad. However, I would like to reiterate and stress that foreign support for religious buildings can be so problematic if the support helps to counter and undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights, for example. if the aid is intended to help create parallel societies and also to promote parallel legal perceptions in Denmark, something we have just discussed here a few minutes ago. Because if you live in Denmark, you have to take Denmark and our value set and our culture to heart. That is why, in the government, we have taken the initiative for a number of agreements to help to put an end to the parallel societies in Denmark. We have done so together with the Danish People's Party. And that is also why we have introduced with the preaching agreement a national list of sanctions which prevents foreign religious preachers with rabid attitudes from entering Denmark at all, and that the church minister has adopted a new law of religion last December by a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament. The law obliges recognized religions in Denmark to be open about their economy and also about the donations that come to the religious community.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165207	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165208	So, when you discuss these things, you can make such an equivalence point that there are also Christian Danish churches abroad, but I just don't think it's the same thing. I don't think it's the same thing at all. I do not think it is the same thing that there is a deliberate strategy with regard to the Turkish state towards Europe, that is to say that so many people are being brought under Erdogan's regime, including those who live in Turkey. Then we're just somewhere else. As far as I know, it has not been the purpose of the Danish churches abroad that they should, so to speak, be used as an instrument for the Danish state. They are actually self-employed; the Danish churches abroad are self-employed. This belongs at government level, and then I just think we're somewhere else, and that's why I'm asking the question. Because I think it is disturbing to such an extent that among other things. minarets and mosques and storm mosques are raised with the support of Erdogan's regime. And then you can ask whether it is not the case that the person who pays the party also decides the music, that is, whether it does not happen, so to speak, for propagandist purposes in relation to Erdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165352	I fully agree that everything is not equal, and I fully agree that there is a difference between whether a Danish church abroad receives funding from Denmark, or whether what we see is an influence into the Muslim environments in Denmark. I fully agree that this cannot be compared. And that is why we have the list of sanctions as one, and that is also why last year the church minister adopted his law of religion to ensure that there is openness about these donations, so that you know who is donating this money. And that is precisely a recognition of it, sir. Christian Langballe says.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165437	The agreement reached is the purpose of the question, but nevertheless... Well, I can guarantee, President, that there is always a purpose to the questions I ask it is actually always so). That sounds good. Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165443	In other words, what we are talking about, which I think is problematical and it may well be that I should spell it out a little more so that the honourable President too can understand it, is that there is a unit within the Turkish Ministry of Religion which promotes a very specific, very conscious strategy in relation to the Turkish mosques around Europe. It looks like the Turkish Government is so involved in these mosque buildings in this way, and I myself think that this requires consideration, reflection and reactions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165551	Yes, and that is also why we must constantly follow up to see if we can do more and more. And it is precisely in this light that we have now agreed with the Danish People's Party last week with the Finance Act that a system must be put in place to prevent foreign aid, the aim of which is to counter and undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms, and that is something I expect the Danish People's Party and the government to discuss together this month.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165624	The questioner for the last round of this question
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165625	Is this something that the government is problematizing in relation to this organization under the Turkish Ministry of Religion? Is that something you're talking about? Is that something you say out loud? Do you notice that you are concerned about the development, that is, that they are used in this way, also in relation to mosque buildings in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165655	In other words, I think it must be an issue which must be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I can say that I myself have not had meetings with Turkish ministers or representatives. I have certainly not had the opportunity to raise the problem myself, but I believe that this must be the responsibility of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165712	Thank you. That's the question. We will keep the questioner and the Minister because there is another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165721	That is the questioner for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165722	The question is: what does the government think about the Turkish Ministry of Religion and thus Erdogan exercising political propaganda and control through mosques in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165731	I have already mentioned that it can be problematic precisely when recognised religions are affected in this way in this case by the Turkish Embassy and the Turkish Ministry of Religion. I have also therefore, together with the government, focused on ensuring that there are clear rules on recognised religions and the support that you get from abroad. Now we are back in the discussion from before, it can be said, for that is why the law of religion was put forward at the time and also adopted by a broad majority. So the government is focused on this area. That is also why we have decided that public welfare associations should provide information on foreign aid, which is more than DKr 20,000, in order to be approved by the tax authorities. It is crucial for the government that one can see how recognised religions, including mosques and associations in Denmark, get their money from, so we have clarity as to who is really behind them. I would also like to stress again that it is of course problematic if there is an impact or financial support for activities that help to counter and undermine our democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. Personally, I think it would be more natural for religions in Denmark, including the Turkish ones, to train their preachers themselves. I do not see why they should be sent from other countries. Then I must say that I have no basis for assessing whether certain religions or ministries exert political influence. This is, of course, something we need to keep an eye on and, of course, we need to keep a close eye on their compliance with Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165949	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205165950	The reason I ask is that at least considering that Diyanet is such a branch of the Turkish Ministry of Religion and that we know that the Turkish state is involved in these mosques, I just think it looks like Erdogan is using these mosques politically to exert propaganda, but also to exercise control over the inhabitants of Turks. There is no doubt that Erdogan has great power dreams, and this is a way to live out his great power dreams in a very unpleasant way for Denmark, but also for the rest of Europe. I am just wondering whether one could imagine that some diplomatic action was also taken against Erdogan at some point. I think this development is extremely worrying, i.e. that the mosques, quite openly, I think, are being used as tools for the Turkish Government and for Erdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170104	I have been accused of much, but being the great diplomat rarely accuses me. So maybe I should just refer diplomatic steps or any diplomatic steps and discussions on this to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, I would like to say that there is a good reason why we agreed in the Finance Act just under a week ago with DF that we should ensure transparency about these donations so that we know what they are going to do. They should not, of course, go against or undermine our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170141	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170142	This last one is kind of just a statement, and then I think we can stop here. But I just find it in one way or another provocative that the Turkish state has involved itself in such a degree in this mosque thing and exercises its political power in the way it does and also conducts an election campaign in Denmark and everything else. In fact, I think it could also be a source of reflection on some political steps in this respect. But it was not a question, it was a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170215	Thank you. I realized that was the last round of this question. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170220	I can at least say that I look forward very much to working on foreign donations. So I expect us to tackle this with the Danish People's Party as early as this month.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170230	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. It's fine to stop when the subject is exhausted, thank you for that. The next question is to the Minister for Education, and it is asked by Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170244	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170246	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of the criticism made by the parents at Borupgårdskolen that there are not enough court guards and that there have been more incidents of violence than the school will endure?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170255	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170256	Thank you. The case from Borupgårdskolen is an expression of a development that we have tragically witnessed in recent years. I am thinking of the violence that has increasingly entered school. We see students threatening and attacking other students; we see teachers exposed to violence and threats. Children who commit violence are taboo in Denmark, it is taboo to talk about, and therefore it may also feel reasonable not to talk about it or talk very little about it. Therefore, for more than a year, I have been trying to put the problem on the agenda, because we must dare to talk about it, and we must recognise that there is a problem when it appears, and then we must act on it. It is a management task to ensure that problems of violence and threats are addressed and followed up at school. I most recently stressed this to all the school leaders of the country at the School Leader Association's annual meeting in Odense on 1 November this year. It was also a clear message in the guidance on the prevention and management of violence and threats that the Ministry of Education sent around to all the school leaders in the country on 8 February 2018. Most recently, the government has proposed to set aside 30 million. kr. in the rate pool to prevent violence and threats in primary school, but there could be no support for this. And here we are. I believe that this calls for self-insight among all the parties involved in the negotiations. As to whether there were enough farm guards at Borupgårdskolen, I do not necessarily think that this is the first question to ask. If you are witnessing an episode of the nature of Borupgårdskolen, it must be clear to everyone that action should have been taken much earlier. The problem cannot only be solved by farm guards. A safe everyday life for children requires a well-functioning class community. This requires that we dare to act on it when the problems arise and that there are present and clear adults and parents who are involved in the behaviour of their children. This requires that municipal administrations and school managers take responsibility for themselves and take the necessary measures to ensure a safe day-to-day life for pupils and teachers. And then it requires parents to be much more involved. It is the parents who have the primary responsibility to raise their children, and we will not solve the problem without the parents. The case at Borupgårdskolen sounds to me as a matter that differs from the everyday life we see at most primary schools in Denmark. There is an urgent need for us to learn more about how many places in Denmark violence is experienced not as individual cases, but as part of everyday life. The primary school must be a safe place for both students and adults. We need a better overview so that we can solve the problems where they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170531	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170532	Thank you. It is so funny when the Minister has a different attitude than was expected, because then all the questions I had prepared fall a little to the ground. But that is wonderful, and I can see that the Minister is very committed to this matter as well. So that leads me to the question: has the Minister taken special initiatives in relation to Borupgårdskolen? Because this is indeed a management responsibility, and it is also the responsibility of the municipal council, but above all, the minister is ultimately sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170559	Thank you for the question. I am only happy to be asked about this subject which is very dear to my heart. Had the rate pool approved the 30 million? kr., we were now in the process of creating an effort group from the Ministry, which could go to violent schools and provide advice and guidance. It is, of course, the responsibility of the municipalities to intervene here, and we must make that clear. However, with the increase we see in violence against teachers, I think we also need a national level. That is why I have also said that we must have a better study of the area. We must also make sure that we know how many schools are in red, that is, how many schools are seriously affected by violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170639	I would say that I am not part of the movement pool, so I am not quite aware of what has been going on in that area. But it is fine that it has at least been discussed there. But then I have to ask: is the Minister so aware that there have actually been relations with the gang environment and that there are students who have paid bribes for their own safety and that they have been threatened with Loyal to Familia if they did not comply?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170700	That is absolutely appalling to hear. I have spoken many times about violence at school and, as I said, I think it is important to realise that there is an everyday life in most schools in Denmark where you can handle the incidents that may now be between students. And then there are the schools of violence, and that is where I think we should have a special effort and also an awareness that the inclusive Danish pedagogy, one might say, also has a limit. In other words, if there is cross-border behaviour, we also need to put in place tools to protect the class community, to protect the safety of school.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170743	What, then, does the Minister think that communication seems to be going very wrong, given that parents keep saying that they have made repeated representations, and then we have a school which says that there has been only one incident of violence, and a school board which believes that they have had no knowledge whatsoever of these incidents? Then something terrible must have gone wrong with communication.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170804	This only confirms the assumption I have that this subject is taboo and that there may be many people in the educational Denmark who find it very difficult to talk about the fact that there are students who are seriously violent or threatening. And my important message here is that the responsible professional also intervenes in a way that protects the class community and the safety of the school. In other words, if there are children or their older siblings who are seriously threatening the safety of a school, then you also have to contact the authorities in order to put together a concerted effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170841	In doing so, we would like to thank both the questioner and the Minister. We jump on to the Minister for the Environment and Food, and the question is by Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170854	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170857	Thank you for that, and I read the question: How does the Minister relate to the Danish Ornithological Association's criticism of the government's pruning of over 13,000 hectares of ramsar areas, where, for example, the Wadden Sea area is of great importance to Denmark's migratory birds?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170913	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205170914	Thank you for the question. The short answer is that I remain calm and hesitant to the criticism. However, I would like to take this opportunity to provide the questioner with two such more factual information on the Ramsar Convention. It is true, as the Danish Ornithological Association mentions, that the concept of urgent national interests is reflected in the Ramsar Convention of 1971. At the turn of the millennium, however, the Convention recognised that there could be other reasons to change the areas and boundaries originally registered. It could, for example, be done. be better knowledge or that in the original entries there were errors. Each Party to the Convention shall designate at least one wetland defined as a humid natural area or shallow area and uncultivated fields. Denmark has designated 28 ramsar areas and no natural areas covered by the provisions of the Convention have been removed in the context of the adjustment carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171024	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171026	Thank you. I visited the Wadden Sea National Park on Monday. After all, it is a completely fantastic area, beautiful and very different from the nature that Denmark can otherwise offer, and that is also why the area is protected, both in relation to Natura 2000, that is to say the Birds Directive, and in relation to ramsar protection. This really is one of the areas in which we have something to offer in terms of tourism, but also in terms of nature. So, in terms of biodiversity, this is simply such an important area. I am therefore also surprised that the Minister, who has otherwise marketed himself as a green minister and would like to talk about the green, is now going in and removing more than 5,000 hectares of protected nature precisely in the Wadden Sea area. It is such a serious attack on nature in these areas that the National Park, together with the other national parks, as the Minister will be aware, has also sent a letter to the Minister, expressing a very serious concern at the time of the consultation, as to whether or not you will be able to lift the responsibility for nature which the rules on our national parks require. So this is a serious attack on nature, which the Minister is leading here. I would really like to ask the Minister basically: what is the reason for cutting away so much protected nature? You couldn't have cut it away. After all, it was gratifying that we put massive pressure on the Minister and came to a situation where the Minister chose to take as much nature into the protection as one takes out, but it was not a duty for the Minister to remove protection of nature in Denmark, especially in a situation where Denmark is already one of the countries in Europe which has the least protected area within our borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171230	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171230-2	Let me start with what we are all agreed on: it's great at the Wadden Sea, and it sounds like a nice Monday. When we did this clean-up exercise, it was all about having a number of areas in Denmark that were wrongly designated as nature areas and thus having a Natura 2000 protection. I often refer to some of these areas as intensive farming and manure tanks and dock piers. I don't think it's fair that we call nature something that isn't nature, and that's why I took the lead in this clean-up, but, as the questioner also mentions, with this wish that we should take in more than we went out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171318	Thank you. Then it's the questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171320	If you look at what the Danish Ornithological Association has written and meant about this, then it is quite strong words they use. Your President, Egon Østergaard, says that it is appalling and shocking that such large and important parts of the Ramsar area disappear in this political frontal attack on our Natura 2000 sites. The association goes on to say that they clearly believe that this is contrary to the Ramsar Convention and that it follows from the rules that the Convention Secretariat should be consulted before such a severe restriction is imposed. They further state that it follows from the Ramsar Convention that there must be urgent national interests if we are to cut and eliminate ramsar protection by nature. What really is behind the urgent need for national interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171413	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171414	As I mentioned in my answer to the original question, it is quite right, as mentioned by the Danish Ornithological Association, that this concept is reflected in the Ramsar Convention of 1971. But around the turn of the millennium, you updated this so that you say there might be other reasons. You can get better knowledge, or you can have some original faulty areas, and that is what is happening here. And I share the concerns about bird life and migratory birds, and I recognise that the Wadden Sea is an important area, but we have thousands of hectares of cereal fields, including Natura 2000 sites.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171454-2	However, if the designation that has been made is so flawed, why has it not been made more seriously to the secretariat of the Ramsar Convention? I mean, it's baroque. Again: The Danish Ornithological Association writes, after having sought access to documents, that there has been no presentation of the plans or the revised borders before they were implemented. The previous borders were established following a multiannual investigation work involving several experts. Many of these limits are now being swept off the table, on the grounds that they were wrong, and that is also what the Minister is now saying. But what arguments are there for them to be wrong? What experts have been consulted? After all, it was a very thorough work that was the basis for the initial appointment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171543	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171544	Yes, but that does not change the fact that the original designation has proved to be flawed, among other things. because the map base has been updated. We have been given more precise maps, and that must also be used. And now the questioner is asking what experts it is. It is the Danish Environmental Protection Agency which, on a scientific basis and based on data on bird populations, has taken into account what we can take out and what we cannot take out. And that is possible, even under the Ramsar Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171616	Thank you. We will continue with the same minister and the same question, the Minister for the Environment and Food and Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171629	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is ambitious when the government writes in its own air project that additional efforts are needed for particulate matter and ammonia up to 2030 if Denmark is to comply with the EU's NEC directive, which sets ceilings for how much individual countries are to reduce air pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171651	Again the short answer first: Yes, the government has presented an ambitious climate and air play with a number of initiatives that are targeted reduction of particles and of ammonia. For example, in the Finance Act we have now set aside 46 million. kr. for a targeted effort to replace the oldest wood-burning furnaces through a new national scrapping scheme. An effective way to reduce particulate emissions is to accelerate the replacement of older wood stoves, as they emit up to five times as many particles as a new wood stove. Similarly, in the case of ammonia, we have set aside 160 million by means of the Finance Act. kr. to an effort to reduce ammonia. Agriculture is already doing a lot to limit ammonia emissions, and we will therefore set up a committee to look into the possibility of further promoting the spread of ammonia reducing technologies. Here and now, we will set up an EU-funded subsidy scheme for pig-men's stables to help spread ammonia and greenhouse gas reducing technologies. The Government will, based on the climate and air scenario, present a plan on how we comply with the NEC Directive at the beginning of 2019 with a view to sending the plan to the European Commission in April 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171816	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205171817	Thank you. It has to be said that the government, with the study, is moving remarkably close to the choice that has to come, which one might wonder about, because it has been very clear to the government throughout the lifetime of the government that this NEC directive should be complied with. It is therefore striking that it is only so late in the period that we are embarking on a study which perhaps should not lead to initiatives to ensure that it is complied with. When you are faced with the government's air emissions, you can read in black and white that for particulate matter and ammonia there is probably a need for additional efforts up to 2030, which the minister also read out. It is actually a little strange when you put forward such an ambitious proposal, according to the government itself, that you do not ensure that we are in line with our commitments. It is not because of the commitments themselves, but because the commitments are aimed at solving specific challenges which also affect Denmark. More than 3 000 people die prematurely every year in Denmark as a consequence of air pollution, and that is, in fact, the major, serious reason why we have to do something about particulate pollution. If you do not think it is important enough, I think most people think so, but if you lack further arguments, then you can make sure of the importance of the action against particulate pollution by looking at the cost of dealing with the diseases that come with air pollution and they amount to over 5 billion. kr. a year. So it's very, very important that we deal with this. That is why I wonder why the government is not taking this problem more seriously in the run-up. Where is the effort relative to ammonia, where is the effort relative to particles? After all, diesel cars, passenger diesel cars, for example, are bypassed in their review of the environmental zones, which are otherwise the main traffic sinner when we look at the particles. I believe that the government is bypassing those things that are difficult, and that is not ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172024	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172025	I do not entirely agree that we are avoiding the problems mentioned by the questioner, because the challenge is quite real. So we are also setting up a scrapping scheme for the old diesel cars, because it is the old diesel cars that are the problem here. The oldest of them are the great sinners, and I very much agree with the questioner. And then we're going to set aside this amount of 160 million. kr. to counter this ammonia discharge. I think it is quite ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172101	The relatively new Minister for the Environment has also had a political life before he became Minister for the Environment, and in this respect we can go back and look at what the Minister for the Environment has said and meant about the NEC directive. If you look at it, you may well wonder whether you have a minister who is earnestly working for Denmark to comply with the NEC directive. For example, the Minister has written in 2015 that it would destroy the competitiveness of Danish agriculture if we were to meet the objective of the NEC directive on ammonia. Can the Minister assure me I am not saying that it is motivating for the Minister to insure me
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172154	To the last part of it: although I have risen since the quotation made by the questioner, it is simply not I who is still printing parliamentary elections, but we have to look at that. This illustrates very well the balance that we must have: that we must, but we also have a profession which is very, very seriously affected by this. After all, it is not a great secret that the ambitions of the previous government seemed to us to be very violent. The reductions that were made here seemed to us to be very severe. We argued that at that time too, and that is why we need to find the balance. But I can assure the questioner and the other people that we have that is why we have set aside these funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172249	I just want to assure you that the Social Democratic Party is paying close attention to the However, we are also aware of the harmful effect of ammonia, as it is at present. We are not going back any further than the weekend when there was a major research report which the DR referred to. It described how pressure the heath is, where pressure the red-listed animals on the heath is from ammonia pollution. I referred earlier to what this means for public health. So there are some balances we need to find, and I fully agree with the Minister on that. However, if you were genuinely interested in solving this challenge, it is strange that the solution should be pushed right to the end of the government period, because the closer we come to meeting the NEC directive, the more difficult it will be. The government has not made it easier for agriculture to deal with this problem because it is constantly pushing the initiatives that have to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172345	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172346	Yeah, we kind of have. After all, it is difficult to predict, especially about the future, and when we say that we are not sure how we achieve our goal, it is a genuine concern that we have. That is why we are allocating the funds and saying that we need to put smart people together so that they can advise us on how to achieve this without undermining an entire profession. I am pleased that the Social Democrats share that concern. I have not seen or heard proposals to achieve this reduction by the Socialists, but if there are such proposals, I would be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172423	Thank you. And then we say thank you to the questioner. We're keeping the minister on the field, since it's now Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen, the Social Democrat who reads the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172436	Thank you, President. The question is: does the Minister think that it is a wise decision and a good use of society's resources that the state will not combine coastal protection at Lønstrup with private funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172450	I will try again to give a short answer at the outset. The short answer is: No. In the efforts undertaken by the Coastal Directorate to translate the 10 million. kr. for coastal protection in Hjørring Municipality, there have been two conditions which have meant that unfortunately there has been no planned sand-feeding off Mårup. That is not satisfactory. The money was just set aside to complement the local effort. The summer of 2018 the Coastal Directorate authorised an extraordinary state coast protection effort in the three areas that emerged from the agreement, which is Løkken, Lønstrup and Nørlev. The municipality of Hjørring and the landowners launched a parallel effort for own funds in the area around Mårup. The first factor arises from the fact that the Coastal Directorate interpreted the text of the agreement in such a way that Mårup was not to participate in the state sand-feeding. Here it was planned that the State would pay only for the cost of the equipment, since the sand-feeding effort would be done by the ship already used by the State. The second point is a misunderstanding in communication with the Environmental and Food Complaints Board. The Coast Directorate had the mistaken view that the permission at Mårup was also indicted. That, of course, is not good enough. And, of course, it is not the landowners who are affected by this that are going to pay for it. Fortunately, however, this can be corrected. The Coast Directorate has verbatim a sand pumps to carry out sand feeding off Mårup, and thus the private initiatives are combined with the state's coastal protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172634	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172636	Thank you for answering the question. It was a good thing that I put it forward, because apparently a lot can happen in one week when you have to move out, even if there are only 25-26 days until the turn of the year. I do not think it is good enough that the various parties here, and in particular the Coastal Directorate, are not in control of the fact that a political agreement was reached to set aside some funds in 2018. I guess they're supposed to be used. We know that in the autumn and later in the spring there is a great risk that if the right bets are not made, there will be even more of the slopes and summer houses will be at risk. That is why I am thinking of how it can be that there is no better coordination. It's just that if you don't do this together, you can get the problem called shelter erosion, so some people make an effort somewhere, but you don't do anything next to it, and then things don't stick together. That's why it's important that the state has a coordinating role in ensuring that these things are coordinated both what the private people do, what the municipality does and what the state does. I hope that the Minister will agree with this, so that we also see sand-fed off Mårup. I also have to ask right here in the first place: It takes a calm weather to feed sand from the sea, but if for various reasons it turns out that you can't reach it, is the money wasted here in 2018, or can the activities continue into 2019, as the case is due to a mistake in the Coastal Directorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172822	I'm kind of fond of sir. Bjarne Laustsen's concern about this, and I share it. I mean, this shouldn't have happened. It did anyway, and that's what life does sometimes. But as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen quite rightly says that this should not affect the landowners who are innocent of it. Fortunately, this can be corrected, and the Coastal Directorate has ensured that funding is available to launch a further sand-feeding effort in the area around Mårup. So even if it's too late for the church, the sacred grave, if only in this case, should be well preserved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172903	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172903-2	Thank you. The hope is still bright green. But what I'm asking you is, if it's that you don't spend this money in 2018, as agreed in February of this year, can the money be continued in 2019? I think that's interesting now that it's taken so long for planning and all these different things and stuff. There has been plenty of opportunity to get started earlier. So I'm interested in making sure that this money isn't wasted on behalf of the cottage owners in Hjørring Municipality. I hope the Minister will agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205172941	I fully share the view. After all, this is some money we have set aside, because we consider this to be important and because it is part of the total effort, which also has to do with the rest of the West Coast. So this is a task that needs to be solved, and we should not apologize for the fact that it was some money from last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173002	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173004	Thank you. I know that access to documents has been requested in order to find out what has happened. Because in the area one is just tired of not getting the right answers to how this error has arisen here. Is it the case that these people from the landowners' association can now get the information about the error? Because that is what it takes to ensure that such a mistake does not happen again. Have those people been informed exactly what the error is, so that we can prevent it from happening again?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173036	In other words, where you are exactly in a request for access and for extradition, I cannot respond to such a stand-by response. I would very much like to do so when I come back on the sitting butt and send a written reply to Mr Beazley. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173051	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen and the Minister for the Environment and Food. It is a new minister we are going to have on the field now, and it is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. And the question has been asked by Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173121	Thank you. The question is: Does the Minister believe that Thisted Airport must be allowed to land via GPS when the weather is bad electricity? of a kind used in the manufacture of motor vehicles of Chapter 87 ?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173139	Thank you for the question. At smaller Danish airports it is only allowed to land when the weather is good and therefore the pilot can see the runway. If the weather is bad and therefore the visibility is low, the pilot must today fly under the clouds to ensure that he can see the runway and the other aircraft in the area. I assume that the questioner refers to a situation where the pilot has to make a landing by flying down through the clouds in bad weather using GPS. As I understand it, a pilot using GPS will be able to land on his aircraft in, for example, the United Kingdom. Thisted Airport, although the weather is bad. Well, that's a good solution, isn't it? The problem is that the GPS does not inform the pilot of the location of other aircraft in the area, and because of the bad weather, the pilot cannot see the other aircraft and there will therefore be a risk of collision. Therefore, today it is a requirement that there should be one or more people on the ground who can continuously inform the pilot about the traffic and weather conditions around the airport when it is bad weather. As I also said at the major aviation conference last week, it is my view that if there is a possibility of progress by means of new technology without compromising on safety, I think we should look into it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173255	Thank you. Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173258	Thank you for that, and thank you for what I actually see as a positive response that, if there is new technology that can create new opportunities, and that is certain, we must of course apply them. When I have the question of Thisted Airport with me today, it is because at Thisted Airport, which is located near Hanstholm Harbour, you see the new opportunities to establish export routes for spare parts for the machines produced in Thy area, you could export the fish that will be landed in Hanstholm Harbour, so that they are more quickly on the dining table in Rome or where they are going, thus increasing the value of the raw materials and the production that Denmark stands for. So we've certainly seen the possibilities in this local area, which Thy and Mors also represent. No one is interested in making a solution that is not sure. That is why we need to concentrate a little on today: when is a solution with GPS safe enough? What is the solution you want is a GPS-based landing solution, where you can walk through the clouds, as the minister rightly says, even when the weather is not good, and where you can tell each other where you are by means of a radio reporting between the planes on this unicom frequency. And so you know that you don't fly into a plane that might be under the clouds. So my question is, of course: does the Minister think that it will be a sufficiently secure solution to create a GPS model based on such an RMZ zone, I think it's called Radio Mandatory Zone with an obligation to use this unicom frequency? In this way, it is the planes that tell each other where they are, and thus you can safely go down to your airport for fish or spare parts or whatever else needs to be flown.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173458	Yes, you can look at that if someone makes a concrete proposal on how to deal with the case with a combination of GPS and radio communication between the planes. It is the case that in Traffic, the Building and Housing Board, where such matters are dealt with, there is an openness to do things in a different way if you can prove that safety is in order. And any airport in Denmark will be able to send an application to the board, where you will be informed about how to handle security, and then the board will be able to decide whether safety is handled as it should be. The management currently deals with three applications for GPS flights, but not one from Thisted Airport. But also Thisted Airport will be able to send an application where you document that you have control of security, and then the board will have to look into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173550	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173552	But I certainly believe that there is an interest in thisted airport too, but it is of course crucial that we know when safety has been adequately documented, and that is why my question is of course: What documentation requirements are being made by the Ministry and the Board? This model of radio communication, compulsory radio communication, has been approved in the United States, Canada, Germany, France, Austria and Switzerland, that is to say, countries with which we are normally comparing ourselves, and I am therefore somewhat surprised that there should be different and possibly higher requirements in Denmark for this model.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173629	Even if you wouldn't believe it, there's actually a difference between air and air travel at least. Denmark is a relatively densely populated country, while other countries have more deserted regions where there is less traffic in the air than in Denmark, and therefore it may be that something can be allowed in another country where the air is virtually always empty, while in Denmark it would be problematic because the air is not as empty as it is elsewhere. However, it is up to those who are applying for a way of doing so to demonstrate that they are in control of safety and that creativity should be great. I am sure that the industry has greater creativity in terms of how to meet the safety requirements than we have at official level, and then we have to decide on the applications that are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173719	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173720	I always get worried when you mix creativity and security into the same sentence. I actually need such a a little more firm answer. That is fair enough if the Minister is not in a position to set the specific requirements on how to prove safety. I think I will follow up on a written question. I would also like to ask whether the Minister thinks that the governing body in question should have a dialogue, that is to say a prior dialogue, with interested airports, on how to ensure satisfactory proof of safety and what it is for matters to be described, and let us just take Thisted Airport, which is the case here. Does the Minister think it would be obvious for the board to engage in such a dialogue with the interested parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173804	I think the board will do that if you just grab the phone and call the board and say you want to talk to the employee who's dealing with this. Then I think he's gonna pick up his phone and answer questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173816	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing and thank Mr. Simon Kollerup. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173837	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205173846	Thank you. Today we're discussing district heating. We are discussing how it will develop in the future, and I believe that we are relatively in agreement, at least in headlines, that district heating is quite crucial for the future, but I think that in the proposal put forward by the government there are a number of uncertainties which I will try to address in my speech and which I hope we can address in the legislative process too, so that we can fully understand what the consequences will be. First of all, for social democracy, district heating is a crucial part of the green transition. If we are to be able to integrate large amounts of wind, fluctuating forms of energy, it is extremely important also to have a collective network such as district heating to use, one might say, as sales at times when there is a lot of wind. That is why I think we are having a hard time achieving it without it. I also believe that, if we are to make large use of surplus heat, if we are to exploit geothermal energy and some of the very environmentally friendly forms of heat that, fortunately, are becoming more and more profitable, we simply need to have a collective supply network. That is why I am actually pleased that we have an extended district heating network, and I also believe that many of us are proud of the collective supply which has ensured both low prices for consumers but has also contributed to the green transition. It is clear that there must of course be pressure on district heating to ensure low prices. In addition to ensuring the climate, we, as politicians, must always dare to demand that it be cheaper and cheaper. There are also some places in Denmark where there should be no district heating. There are some places where district heating has already been established today, where prices are simply too high, and where, fortunately, we in the energy conciliation group agree, if you may say so, to help some of the consumers away from district heating if it is very expensive in an area. Because nobody has to be tied to a totally unreasonable amount of district heating, and we have to deal with that in the conciliation circle. But that is not what the current draft law is about. We will deal with this in parallel. The current draft law here is about how we will ensure in the future, 1) that there is support among consumers in the local population for new district heating investments, 2) that there is certainty about the investments that have been made. This is quite simply necessary, and also because, as I said, there is a great deal of money at stake in the context of the green transition. These are large collective investments, and that is why, of course, once the municipality has been behind a loan, a district heating company has laid out an area that you have invested perhaps 400 million. kr. in a collective supply, to ensure that it does not crumble that no breeding ground is created for that investment not to return home. Because there is a very big difference between who has the opportunity to change. I believe that those who have the opportunity to make an individual heat solution will be those who have free value in the house to borrow for an air for water-heat pump, for example. If it takes $100,000 or $150,000, there are some people for whom it is not an option, and there are others for whom it is an option. If they jump off the district heating network, district heating will be a little more expensive for those who are left. Then there will be some more who feel tempted to jump off, and again only those who can afford it. And then there will be higher prices for those who are left behind. I simply do not think that we can be served with a situation where we have such a skewed social profile that support for district heating crumbles, but neither can the municipalities, which ultimately have the bill, be served with it if it ends up in bankruptcy. That is why I would like to say that the discussion we have today is very much about: what is new? On the part of the Social Democrats, we would like to make it clear with seven-inch nails that, in addition to the fact that district heating must be attractive and cheap, there must also be support for creating new district heating areas. But we think it's unclear what happens when people say yes to district heating and sell their house after a few months and then move in new ones who say they don't want to be part of district heating. Are they then bound by the decision made by the previous owner? I do not think there is any clarity about that. KommuneKredit has been very critical in its consultation response: how do we ensure that this is still a collective task for which cheap loans can be granted? What is it in the end that the municipality gets from bills if the existing areas are cut down? There we are on the line that the Social Democrats want to draw: that, in addition to the fact that there must be support in new areas, there must also be support for those places where we have
ParlaMint-DK_20181205174406	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205174418	Thank you, President. The bill here, L 97, is about the implementation of part of the energy agreement that all parties in the Folketing entered into here in June. In fact, what we are putting into practice today is only one and a half lines of the text of the agreement, namely an agreement text which seeks to eliminate the possibility of introducing new consumer bonds for district heating in the form of an obligation to connect and remain. After all, the obligation to connect and remain with district heating is essentially about the possibility of imposing or forcing consumers to join as a municipal authority and to absorb heat from the local district heating plant. I would like to say straight away that we in the Danish People's Party are happy with district heating. We think that district heating in itself is a good concept that many Danes enjoy, and so does our environment in this country. But there are also places where district heating is too expensive and where you do not have an offer to consumers that is sufficiently attractive, perhaps on comfort, but at least not on price. And there, for reasons of principle, we are opposed to requiring the individual Dane to join a product that would otherwise not be purchased voluntarily. That is why we are in favour of the draft law here, in which we cut off the possibility of imposing new consumer bonds, in other words in new areas or in existing areas where there have been no consumer bonds so far. It is a relatively uncomplicated rule to introduce. As the previous rapporteur on the platform mentioned, we shall look at the possibility of removing consumer bonds at a later stage where they already exist today, but it is a much more delicate process in which we should be very careful not to pull the curtain away under existing district heating plants to the disadvantage of remaining district heating customers and for the municipalities that guaranteed loans to these district heating plants. But, as I said, that is not at all what we are discussing today. Today, it is all about new consumer bonds, and we believe that in those cases where there are quite excellent alternatives to district heating, for example. If the individual Dane wants a pill pine, if you want a heat pump or simply electric panels, it must be an option if you want it, either because you think it is the best or the cheapest. Then you should not be forced to join the district heating system. So, on the basis of these considerations, the Danish People's Party supports the bill here, and we welcome the fact that we are already in the process of implementing the energy agreement from this summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205174734	So far, two people have filed for questions. The first is sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205174738	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. After all, we agree that if new areas are to be created, there must be support for this, so people must voluntarily join. We also agree that if there are areas today where there is a consumer bond, we should not abolish it at this stage, because, as the rapporteur also mentioned, this could mean that the most disadvantaged are left with more expensive district heating, whereas those who have the money to choose freely can go somewhere else. What we are discussing today is the situation in which some people actually have a district heating area today where 400 million have been invested. kr., and where the community hangs on the bill. And there is our view that it would be unwise for there to be a technology tomorrow that would make people want to use individual solutions, because then they would have 400 million. kr. be wasted and, by the way, as a taxpayer in the municipality, you would have to bring them home if people switched to the individual. That is why I would like to have the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say a little more about it. For me, what is really important is whether the money has been spent, whether it has been invested. It is essential to protect the investment. And then we fully agree that if the money is not spent, there must be support before new places are developed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205174857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205174858	I have the view that I will not be involved in introducing new consumer bonds. That is what is very square in the energy agreement, and that is one thing that we in the Danish People's Party support. And we believe that when you have been able to operate a district heating plant without consumer bonds, simply because customers have thought it was an attractive offer you had, then you must also be able to drive it forward in that way. So we cannot begin to mess with the conciliation text, because I actually think it would be. The conciliation text is very short and very clear, and we will not be involved in changing it or pulling the elastic band here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205174950	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205174951	Indeed, there was also very little time to negotiate an energy reconciliation when the boil finally burst, so the text is in many places short. I would like to address what the rapporteur says, that places where there is no binding today and where people are involved, because they think district heating is a good idea, must also be able to continue to operate district heating without bindings. So it is just that I am saying that there could well be a situation where there are 15 years left before the investment has been paid for, and what if, in five years' time, there is a change in technology that makes people defect and that the investment is then wasted? What is the difference between the investment and the problem of the socially vulnerable, who are unable to jump off the district heating network, and then a place where there have been consumer bonds all along?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175039	Well, I just have to say that I find it hard to imagine that there would be a new technology coming in a few years' time, which would make people completely out of district heating. Well, district heating is a good concept. It's nice easy and it's convenient as a consumer to have it, and if the price is also reasonable, most people will probably refrain from changing, both because of the hassle, but also because it usually takes a pretty big investment to replace their heating system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175114	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175115	I find it a little difficult to predict the development of technology in the future, and I understand if there are municipalities that think: Well, now they change the rules from 1 January 2019. We have a district heating area where we have not, as it were, demanded that all consumers be connected, but if we are to be sure that a future investment can be well connected, we will hurry to adopt in the city council before New Year's time that a duty to be connected to the district heating system is introduced in the district heating areas. If we are to make this very concrete, then it is the case that in Aarhus you are in a process where you have to start drilling for geothermal, and the player who wants to do that work wants there to be a 30-year contract. Yeah, that's a new situation. What would the best thing be to do in Aarhus? It would then be hasty to say that in that district heating area we need to make a consumer bond so that consumers are involved in raising the big investment so that we can ensure that there is a healthy economy in the geothermal area in the future. Does the rapporteur not see that the problem here is existing out there in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175230	In other words, I can easily understand that there may hypothetically be a technology that can outperform district heating, but I do not think that one should be directly afraid of that; instead one should look at what problems it is that will be faced if all people want to get away from district heating, and then one has to deal with it at the time when the problem might arise. However, in the Danish People's Party, our basic view is that we will not be involved in forcing new customers to join district heating. It must be a choice for the individual, what you want as the best solution for your home, and then you can choose district heating if you want to, and you can choose something else if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175319	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175320	Well then, the Danish People's Party supports that it is the poorest who become losers, for the richest will always have the opportunity to buy some kind of new technology and ensure a heat supply in their house. Now the basic amount lapses, and there I think we have found a solution where we hand-held each area and find a solution, and there might well be some places where the solution was to dismantle the collective arrangement, but then that decision is taken jointly. And it is the common supply that should be guaranteed, but this is not done by the way the draft law and the conciliation text are interpreted here. You can leave the community there if you can afford it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175358	Basically, I believe that there must always be an opportunity to cancel a subscription to something that is too expensive if you can get something cheaper somewhere else. It is my fundamental view that this should be the case. Then there may be a few cases where large investments have been made which may be difficult to get at interest rates, but this must be taken at the time when that problem may arise. Right now, it seems to me somewhat hypothetical.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175431	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175439	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is L 97 that we are discussing now, and several rapporteurs have mentioned what the draft law contains. In short, we are supporting the energy agreement with L 97, and we are doing so by abolishing the right to impose new obligations and I repeat: new consumer bonds from 1 January 2019. This applies both to the obligation to connect and remain in new district heating areas. The reason why we are doing this, the whole idea of this, is that we are more motivated by this to ensure that we think about cheap and green conversion in the works rather than, as we have seen in some cases, that we have had a great deal of focus on expanding the district heating area. One of the sad consequences of these consumer bonds has been that we have district heating plants which are very disadvantaged economically. These are district heating plants that have been developed in a way that certainly should not have been done in the light of hindsight, because one has not had enough focus on the economic operation of these plants, so today, because of their bindings, citizens have actually been tied to these works. We are now helping them with other steps in the energy agreement, but that does not change the fact that the proposal contains some good measures in relation to the fact that the works are now going to think more green and cheaply, especially in relation to their expansion plans, and we of course welcome that from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175632	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175634	Then I have to ask what exactly I asked the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. After all, we agree that new district heating areas require people to be with the end. So there is no discussion that, if you want to create new areas, you have to have support for it. What we are discussing here is whether it is possible in existing areas where the investment has been made, to say that it must be ensured that it is not only those with the highest free value who have the option of choosing something else, whereas the other areas and ultimately the municipality hang on to such a little more expensive district heating. After all, we agree with a great deal, and our discussion here is about what is being done with existing areas that are at risk of getting caught up in the way the government chooses to implement the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175733	It is, of course, the case that agreements are made in different ways in the country. We have, for example. expanded our entire district heating network by approx. 50% the construction of district heating has been carried out without consumer ties. We then implement new legislation, and it is clear in the energy agreement that from the turn of the year we are stopping new commitments • new commitments. That means that we are doing it properly. This means that if you are dealing with a district heating plant, which is guaranteed by a municipality, which says that they think they are so bad at operating this district heating plant that they expect their customers to run away at some point, they can actually bind consumers until the turn of the year. But it's not a showdown that we're going with them. After all, it is a showdown that citizens who have district heating have to take with their local politicians and the local district heating plant. So I think we are doing this in a very proper way. How they have concluded cross-border agreements in each district heating area is very different. I can see that I am no longer speaking time, but fortunately the questioner has one more question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175852	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205175853	It's actually 50%. of the areas that exist today where there are no bindings. It is not appropriate to go into all the areas in December and to have low constraints, because we do not know whether technology will change in one year's time and, therefore, because we do not know if there will be a bill of 400, 500 or 600 million. kr., which, if necessary, will hang on to those who have the worst opportunity to make an individual warming. I understand that the government believes that support for district heating should be secured in the future. It supports social democracy. I just do not understand why investments that have already been made will be changed because, if there is no way of protecting those investments, there is a risk that certain groups will be left on the bill, and they are the ones who do not have the free value to make their own technological solution, but are left to district heating. Then I would like to say, with regard to the places where people should not have been built and where people are tied to too expensive a price, that we are fortunately agreed that they should be helped out of it. These are bar-field works and elsewhere, as the rapporteur knows very well, that we also support debt relief, as it were, and thereby help people to find a better solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180009	Fortunately, you are supporting the government's line in helping the works in need, which have had too much focus on the part that is called to build an extension, and that is what we are forcing them away from with this bill: that now you can't just one-sidedly pay attention to expanding your areas, and then you don't care how good an investment it is, because you just tie the consumers. Then I do not understand the rapporteur's thinking in that technology development will only take place for individual solutions. Technology development will, of course, also take place in the future on the individual plants, and fortunately, district heating is competitive today, and of course it will continue to be so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180054	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180055	If we are now going to get the debate back on track, these are not barmark works at all that we are discussing here. So it is some urban communities that have a district heating supply and where there is urban growth in some of the larger cities. This is happening, for example. in Aarhus, and this is also happening in Copenhagen, and should you make a municipal planning where you say that with the investments you have to make, you have to ensure that you have district heating customers? We have, for example. Odense and Aalborg, which are to phase out a coal power plant, and we have cities like Aarhus, which are about to make big investments in terms of geothermal energy and where you really need to be sure about those investments. I understand if some municipalities are thinking: if we are to ensure a good economy in our investments, then we have to make these consumer bonds. So I understand that you have a process in the municipalities now that you think: should we have a city council before New Year's when we adopt some consumer bonds? Does the rapporteur not see that that is the problem in this legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180156	I am aware that this market idea, which we have also made in relation to technology-neutral supply in relation to wind and sun, which has ensured that we will have much more greener conversion for the money, lies among other things. Enhedslisten very far away. But we have just had to make a rescue package for, among other things. the smaller plants, which should never have developed with district heating because they did not have an eye for the price. They only had an eye for it, and then it would be a good business. So here we are forcing them to weigh the price too, and we are saying in a proper way that from the turn of the year you cannot make new bindings. This means that if you run a work in Aarhus in such a way that you will answer to the public in such a way that you say that you can probably only make these investments in geothermal, if you tie them to this technology, you have the opportunity to do so. But we are not going to get to, for example. to regulate the geothermal system in the same way as the works. Because it is part of the technology that has then been exposed to competition and the parts that have been exposed to competition are therefore not regulated in the same way as the plants. The second part of this is that now Aarhus is actually going to consider whether it is also a good idea to commit itself in this way with a geothermal project...
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180330	Yes, please! Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180331	That decision must then be taken against the fact that we do not know what technology will be like in 15 years' time. That's the hard part of this. After all, we do not know whether there will be some sort of mega-breakthrough in the solar sector, which can enable individual parcel houses to invest in something for themselves and leave the community. And then it is, of course, that you leave other people with the investment that is made and then they are stuck on the bill. I wish there was a little more cooperative movement left in the Left than there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180359	The advantage of the cooperative movement because it is so well known is that it is something you can withdraw from. Compared to these works, the whole point is precisely that we say to the municipalities: you have until the turn of the year, in case you have to tie the works. And otherwise I just have to say that I do not understand the Enhedslisten's thinking that future developments in heat technology will only take place in relation to individual solutions. It will, of course, continue on a large scale, just as it has done in the rest of the world, just as it has done in Denmark so far, as it will also do in relation to individual solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180438	Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen and goes further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180456	Thank you. I think it is a pity that there is so little time for 1 January, because I am quite sure that this draft law puts pressure on some municipalities which actually have a meeting schedule that has been agreed many months ago. Of course, they can set up an extra meeting where they try to deal with what kind of law is being passed in the Folketing, which then happens shortly before Christmas, and I should not be able to say whether we could come up with something a little better than the bill here. However, I would like to say that, even through those who have been involved in the matter so far, and it is a little special to have made a legislative proposal before you have had the first reading, but it is natural that you have it with the time pressure on the matter here, and with the concern expressed in some municipalities that we will find some solution which is well thought out and which will then not force any municipalities to make the safe solution and make planning, where you hurry to say that you should then have a commitment in some more areas. But that may be the consequence of this, and I think that the debate here shows that we have a problem and that we can not just say, as the rapporteur on the Left says: yes, but the development of technology is also taking place in the major works. Yeah, that's right. However, we may find ourselves in a situation where there may be some district heating areas that will have a good geothermal solution, which is the best solution for 15 years, and it has been calculated that it will have to be written off over 20-30 years, and in 15 years' time there will be a new technological solution that will be a good solution in terms of the individual solution, and a lot of consumers will leave the community in the district heating supply, and some other consumers will be left with the bill. We do not think this is appropriate. After all, we need a district heating sector that is modern and where we build on the community, and there I think there's a flaw in this bill, and I don't know how we can solve this. Because it is a little special to have such matters, which have been discussed in the energy conciliation circle, and which are now being dealt with by a committee. It's a mess and you can have meetings in two places. But I do not think that we have come deep enough into this matter, and we end up with some people who believe very much in market forces and think that these two sentences in the energy conciliation should be interpreted in a certain way, and then there are others who can see that the word new could mean something a little different. I think this is an unfortunate situation and if you look at how many people depend on them getting their heat from district heating, including in the larger urban areas, then this case deserves a landing where nothing inappropriate happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180750	There are a few questions, and the first is from Mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180752	Well, I don't really understand that sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen can continue to discuss the text of the energy settlement. And I do not really understand whether it is an expression of withdrawing from the energy conciliation because you are not grown up enough to comply with the agreements you have entered into. It is very clear and we have been discussing these texts in the debate evening after night. It says in concrete terms: New consumer bonds will be stopped in the form of a commitment to connect and remain from 1 January 2019. That means you can't make new bindings. So it doesn't help to come here today and say: No, but we would have understood that you could make new bindings. And then they say that it is if you had just had a financing at a certain time and all sorts of nonsense. Stand by the energy agreement that we have made, and don't say all kinds of nonsense that there are a few that are left with a bill for the many. It's not an image you can recognize from the real world. Agreements have been made on the individual works in different ways, and if you want to withdraw from the district heating, please do so; then you have to pay your share of the outstanding debt etc. These are individual companies being run in a decentralised manner. And then, sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen suddenly to create a central control, which means that we do not ensure the cheapest possible green conversion. Well, I have no understanding of the rapporteur's line.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180920	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205180921	No, it's very possible. I have not participated in the evening meetings that Thomas Danielsen has attended, so I shall not be able to say what he has discussed with others or with himself. But with the text here and the energy agreement there, the municipalities have an opportunity to relate to: What are the possibilities before New Year's Day, and how can the opportunities be after New Year's? The municipalities therefore have the possibility that if they think they want to ensure that more are connected to the district heating supply, they can go in and define the consumer bonds by 1 January 2019. That is what I am pointing out, in other words, that the possibility is there. And I think it is a lot of pressure to put on some municipalities with regard to a legislative proposal which has been in consultation and which is adopted here on 18 or 19 December, and then they can call an extraordinary Council meeting between Christmas and New Year and then relate to the investments they can see what they want to find out. So this law could actually lead to some municipalities wanting to guard themselves. That's kind of just what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181028	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181029	Well, now you have to stop in the Enhedslisten. It's been alerted since before the summer break that this is going to happen. We are then doing this in a proper way, which means that the municipalities have six months to fit in and make some reflections. If you yourself consider that your skills are not sufficient to run a utility without tying the customers, you actually have the opportunity. But that is something for which criticism must also be made. Now we need criticism both from one side and from the other. In fact, I think that the Enhedslisten, which I must ask to confirm that we have signed up to the Energy Agreement and the text that it says here, should stand by the responsibility of concluding an energy agreement, in which it is quite clear that, from the turn of the year, new citizens cannot be imposed on a particular work. Has that text been adopted or has that text not been adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181120	Well, we have agreed, and that gives the municipalities the opportunity to listen to Thomas Danielsen before New Year's, that they can go in and make some decisions that they think there are some district heating areas in their supply area that have to have this connection obligation, because they know that they have to make some very large investments that are best connected if it is the case that there are many people who are connected to that solution. And I can understand if there are mayors and others who are worried about this, and who find it difficult to see what technological developments are like in 15 years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181153	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181154	I need to hear Enhedslisten about this area. It may be that you have not attended the same number of meetings as the rest of us, but we have been down in detail, and it is quite simple: If there are municipalities that do not trust their own district heating plant and therefore have to go out and make bindings by 1 January 2019, that is what they can do. But I have to ask the rapporteur whether having such a defensive approach to your own business, namely that you have to tie consumers to buy the goods from you, because you are afraid that you cannot join in, is not something that Enhedslisten imagines. If I want to get out of that district heating plant and I can easily get out of it as a customer and as a member of which I am a member, I will pay my share of the debt that the heating plant has left. And I know that there are a lot of people who feel this way, because it is such a standard text that is in these conditions to be a member of such a work. So Enhedslisten just has to stick to the fact that it is the municipalities that make the decision if they want to bind someone. They're free to do that, because we've given them six months to figure this out. If they then choose to do so at the last minute, it is because they do not take due care.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181322	Well, there are some municipalities that have been trying to influence politicians lately, and I think that is fine in a democratic process. We must also recognise that, in other words, some municipalities are faced with a desire to introduce some geothermal energy, and then there is one player who thinks that there should be 30-year contracts. Why make a contract of 30 years if it is the case that there are not enough consumers for that solution? That is why there is pressure on some municipalities that are facing a very large change. Apparently, some people with a liberal approach believe that they know technological developments 15 years or 30 years in the future. We don't do that in the Enhedslisten. That is why we believe that our legislation should be so adapted that it is good in the best way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181411	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181411-2	I am sure that not many people can look forward to 20-30 years, so it would probably be quite unreasonable to embark on such a project. And then it's a question of whether to tie your customers to an investment you're not sure of yourself. There I would urge those who are doing so to be very, very careful and to exercise due diligence. Because none of us here today can see how technology is developing just 10 years ahead. So it would really be brave to go out in such an investment with a goal of 30 years and tie the consumer and adopt it in the city hall before 1 January 2019. But if you do, it is guaranteed because you are competent in this area and can see into the future. And then it's only good for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181454	I think that's more of a comment. But when you have made a district heating supply for a new area, those who have made the really large plants have looked at something that has probably been at least an investment of 30 years. It has probably also been an investment longer in the future, when large district heating pipes have been laid out for very large works. After all, what we are facing is that it is extremely important what heat solutions the larger urban communities choose. And there it isn't just like a barmark work. There are, in fact, huge investments that we are facing, and I can understand that if the municipalities put a little caution into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181534	We thank the rapporteur and move forward. The next one is sir. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181548	Thank you for the floor. Our rapporteur, sir. Carsten Bach, has no opportunity to be here, and then I have been fortunate enough to draw this rapporteurship. I appreciate that, because the title of this proposal could actually be more personal freedom. Indeed, it is a very good liberal proposal aimed at consumers and not at all the other constraints we have had that were on some group or bureaucratic systems or municipal systems that had to be secured over consumers. I believe that we have all been close to an area where people had been forced into a district heating system and there had been citizens' meetings and protests, and so on, and yet it was a hard dictation from those who had the power to say that you had to do so, even if you even had some energy supply in progress. If you lived in an area that was laid out, yes, you could get it torn down. It has been a quite unreasonable treatment of some. Now there's a bill coming up, and it's really good craftsmanship. It is good work that we have reached this point in the wake of the energy conciliation, that we now take account of consumers and thus make a proposal, first and foremost, that we cannot force people in new areas. I do not believe so much in the concern that some people have that then you will now get out and bind the consumer. At any rate, it takes good arguments to get away with it in relation to the people and the mood and all that. So I don't think that's gonna happen. And if that happens, we have to say that they have a very bad case; then it is because they do not believe that their own project can bear in a free market. It is necessary for it to be a free market if it is to be fair to consumers at all. It is increased competition, cheaper energy; it is an excellent proposal and we can only praise and support it, so thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181743	You're welcome. Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181753	The alternative supports this proposal as a starting point. It is, of course, part of the implementation of this summer's energy conciliation, of which we are also a part. Having said that, I am also curious about the concerns expressed by several consultation parties and at least two rapporteurs in this Chamber today about the safety of certain investments in district heating when removing new consumer bonds. So I look forward to a debate on the issue of committee work. And I should also like to welcome from the Radical Left and from the Socialist People's Party, which also welcomes the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181833	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby as rapporteur for Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205181843	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that we have a part of the energy agreement we entered into before the summer holidays, and that L 97 only deals with what is called consumer bonds for both the obligation to connect and remain, we go in and make a rule from 1 January 2019. And when I am glad that this is a conciliation involving all the parties of the Folketing, it is because we have a great deal of agreement on what our energy sector will look like in the future. It is a force, not only, it can be said, politically speaking, but also for those around Denmark who note that what we have decided in here, we believe. I can hear that there are some who may be pulling out a little, but despite that everyone is standing by it, and that is very, very important for the sector to know where we stand. This means, if there are municipalities that are catching some consumers in some constraints before 1 January, that it is a great responsibility that politicians take on themselves with the decision we are taking here today, because they are taking responsibility for themselves in an area where they will in fact bind consumers to an investment, if that is what they are doing, which will have to last for many years to come. I am of the opinion that if there is a change of technology in this area, it will also be in the district heating sector, and that is why we are discussing when it will happen. None of us know that. But for many, the sector is well running and in some places delivers some fantastic prices. And we see on the market price that district heating customers are at DKK 12,000. per average household, e.g. Those who have invested in heat pumps are about DKK 17,000. for the same house. So the district heating plants can be competitive, and we must also say that about half of all the matricles in Danish district heating areas are not tied on anything at all they are completely free. And they do, because the district heating plants have invested according to customers' needs, and this means that they can deliver the goods to them, so they know that they don't run anywhere else because they have the cheapest prices they can get on their heat. Then we have some that we know will get stuck with this. We've been discussing that too. And there we also agree and have put a pool of so that we can help those places where there are some that get stuck. Then there is something I think we should be aware of. Now there is a lot of talk about these consumers being able to run, so only the poor are left in their small houses with the whole bill. I believe that we will find out in real life with the consumer, at least in my work, so that we have to settle the debt we have, in relation to the consumers we are, overall, so that when we leave the company, if that is what we could think of, then we do it so that when we go out the door, we also pay the bill for the debt that we stand for or that I stand for, if it was I who would do it before I resigned. Finally, I would just like to say that this also has an impact on our district heating plants, and it is that a signal is also being sent from the Danish Parliament today: Don't go out and make investments where you are not competitive, because you cannot bind your consumers in the future; so that means that if you want to invest in something, it has to be because you can deliver the goods at the right price, and if you can't, you have to think very well about it. Of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182251	Thank you. There are questions. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182253	Thank you. We are, after all, and now I am just saying it again again, agree with the Conservative rapporteur and a number of other rapporteurs: if you have to make new investments, you have to have new district heating areas, then of course you have to make sure that you are competitive. In fact, some of the places where things have gone wrong are because district heating has been developed in some areas where we have then politically tied it to a particular fuel, which has proved expensive and which has given poor economy. But please don't do this. It is not only because district heating plants have been keen to make expansions that could not respond and be profitable. I think we are creating a fairly wrong picture. But we all agree that in the future you must have a good business case, otherwise you should not do it. That is why we are calling for a future connection to district heating. That's how far we agree. Then I would like to ask the Conservative rapporteur what the need is to change the conditions of those who have district heating today, those who have invested. What is the need to change something that already exists through conservative glasses?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182357	What we are discussing today are consumer bonds when we look forward from 1 January 2019. Then we will have a discussion on the existing consumer bonds that exist today, and I think that we should take this discussion completely openly when we get there. However, the draft law here, L 97, only deals with new consumer bonds from 1 January 2019. That is what we are discussing here today. We must then say that for the existing works we have around, more than half of them do not have consumer bonds. And then we have some who have consumer bonds. I think we should have an open discussion on this. I would just like to say that we cannot let some works go on again if that is where it comes to, which needs to be given a more aid package that the consumer has to pay one more time. Then we should, as we have also talked about and written down, put aside a pool if there are some we need to help out of a clip where there is a work that simply does not have to go on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182504	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182507	I cannot really find out whether it is aware that these issues are misunderstood. We agree that there must be support for the future. We agree that where there is a poor economy, we must help barmarks to get out of the district heating network. We agree that there are only about half of the existing consumer bonds. There is just what I am saying about the half where there are no consumer bonds today: why do the Conservatives think we should change the relationship for the areas where the money has been spent? What is the need to resolve in those areas? Why does it have to be changed? After all, we agree on all the things that are forward-looking, but why is there a need to change the conditions of the areas in which investment is being made and which exist today and where consumers are, moreover, pleased with their district heating?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182555	Well, we have to be careful that we're not going to make an A and a B team here. From 1 January, we decide to have a really, really good business case there to go out and create a new district heating area. Just as we can say that, when we have existing areas, we, too, as politicians, have to go in and see if it makes sense for consumers to be bound here in the future. Because it could be that these works had new investments. Because they have the bonds, they dare to go ahead with it, but it is not certain that it is very profitable. I'm open to this discussion. But basically I would like these consumers to be freed. And when we set them free, it is not the same as that they are free from their district heating plant, because I am sure that the vast majority of them are tied up in relation to the debt that they share in the plant.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182657	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205182712	Thank you for that, President. I thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. I am very pleased that we are now discussing this legislative proposal. With the energy agreement, we said very clearly that we would put a stop to new consumer bonds, both the obligation of connection and the obligation to remain. 1 January 2019. We also agreed that binding consumers to excessive heat prices is unsustainable. With this bill, we put action behind words. We are taking another important step towards a modernised heat sector with green and cheap heat for the benefit of Danish heat consumers and for the benefit of the district heating sector. The sector is best served in the long term. The sector should be able to see that for itself. And I actually think many of the well-managed works agree with that. In this case, consumers have not had a proper mouthpiece to tell about their situation, and that is why customers may not have been sufficiently consulted in the debate either. If we listen to the voices in the country, it is clear that the debate has been marked by a very one-sided focus on municipalities and works rather than customers. I think that is quite wrong. Here I am on the side of the customers, and I do not want to help us continue to tie the heat customers to the district heating network. Now we take the first step and stop new ties. Fortunately, we generally have an efficient and well-run district heating sector. Very many municipalities and works have chosen not to use the obligation to connect and remain. In fact, about half of all the matricles in Danish district heating areas are laid out without consumer bonds. We can also see that the average price of heating a standard house with district heating for an existing heating customer is about DKK 12,000, while the average price of a heat pump is about DKK 17,000. The district heating sector provides a good and competitive product in the vast majority of cases and does not need coercion to attract customers and to make the economy coherent. Having said that, there are also some works where prices are too high. This is where decommissioning can come in if they are not able to straighten out the ship. We shall probably see that in particular when the basic amount ends. In these cases, I do not believe that consumers should pay for artificial breathing to needy plants through coercion. Instead of pulling out the torment, we must help the works that are not future in to close in a controlled and proper way, so that neither municipalities nor customers are left alone on the bill. That is why we have also agreed with the Energy Agreement to allocate funds to a pool to help these plants close down in a proper way where customers and municipalities do not hang on to the debt. In conclusion, I would like to thank again for the interest that Things have expressed in the draft law today. With the bill, we implement the energy agreement to the letter. I do not think there can be any doubt about that. That is why I expect all parties to support the bill. With these comments, I would like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183022	There is a question from Mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183024	Thank you. We agree, as I have also said to the other rapporteurs, with the Minister that new district heating investments should not be made without there being support for this. But I would like to ask: if you then have a new district heating area and hold a referendum on whether it is a good idea or not, what does the minister think you should do to ensure that that investment will be there in four years' time? Well, there may be some who sold their house, and some new ones have moved in. They say I haven't been involved in this. So what should the municipalities lean on in the future when they make such decisions? The second discussion is what the Minister's comment is on the situation when municipalities, when citizens, when works are concerned about places where they have made the investment and have never used their consumer bond because it was not really necessary. And now you may be forced to make a consumer bond fast because your terms change from 1 January. Is it not inappropriate to end up in that situation? It is, of course, a strawman if we are to try to make the rest of us responsible for forcing people to do something that is uneconomic. Because we are in complete agreement to shut down the places where heat prices are too high. That's not what we're discussing. What we are discussing are the places where it actually works.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183156	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183157	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel for the question, and thank you for the support for district heating, which I fully share. I think it is crucial that district heating is competitive and that when you build into new areas, then, of course, in the municipality and in the district heating plant, consideration is given to ensuring that the business plan laid down for it is also thorough and sustainable. Then there is the matter of the existing areas. There's nothing that's changed with this bill. It is fortunately the case that in half of the country's district heating areas there is no obligation to remain today. I see no reason whatsoever why there should be cases where it should be introduced. In these areas, of course, consideration has been given to what has been achieved, in other words to ensure that the heat supply is competitive. And that is precisely what this is all about for us, in other words to ensure that consumers also have the opportunity to demand that district heating supplies are competitive. And if it is not, they should also have the opportunity to withdraw from the heat supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183252	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183253	We can take the 50 percent. of the areas where there are currently no consumer bonds. Because I understand that the Minister is willing to leave those who have consumer bonds. Those who are then the problem are those who have not chosen to use the consumer bonds now here. They're the people we're discussing. As far as that half is concerned, does the Minister have an overview of what the debt is in those companies? After all, we agree that it is the municipalities that ultimately hang on to the bill and thus the taxpayers • if things go wrong and do not become profitable. In the past, it has been possible to protect taxpayers from that risk by using a binding if necessary. You can't do that in the future. So the short question is: does the Minister have any idea what it is for a bill that is there and what it is for a debt that is potentially to be covered by the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183346	I do not have a precise overview of this, but I am confident that before they have made these investments, the heating plants have sat down and made some thorough reflections, and that the municipalities have done so before they have given permission to do so. We can also see in the consultation answer from KommuneKredit that their assessment is that this does not alter their ability to continue lending. The difference here between the two of us and between our parties is, of course, the question of • and I was very much in agreement with what Mr. Leif Mikkelsen held before we wanted to give the individual the opportunity to make an opt-out and an option.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183420	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183421	Thank you. After all, the bill we are discussing here today is about consumer bonds. I would therefore like to ask the Minister why there is something in this bill on false excess heat and what that concept at all covers. Because I think it's quite interesting that it comes into a proposal like this. The Minister must have thought about that. Can he give us any examples where some people fire for the birds, that is, where false excess heat is deliberately produced? I think that's quite interesting. How did it get into the legislation, in relation to whether or not to have district heating, that is, that some produce false excess heat? I thought the Minister for Energy was Minister for Energy, but it may be that it covers something else. So I will look forward to having a full statement here in the speaking time available to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183521	First of all, thank you for the question. This does not alter the current considerations and the part of the energy agreement about improving the conditions for the use of surplus heat. This is a clarification of existing rules. False excess heat is per. definition where a company does not supply surplus heat from process energy or in any other way, but where a company goes in and cooks the heat for its own sake, thus starting to be a local heat producer. That is not the intention of using surplus heat.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183550	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183550-2	I asked whether the Minister could give an example of some who produce false excess heat. I assume that society must have an interest in it if there is too much heat in a given production in Denmark. You know this from different places, that is, they send it into the district heating pipes. That is what is interesting, i.e. if it happens at all. So I am very interested to hear what it is for some companies that have such cheap energy that they simply fire for the birds. There must be false excess heat. Can the Minister not come a little closer, in other words tell us how the Ministry of Energy has come up with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183632	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183633	Thank you for the question. It is actually the case that I have a very clear expectation that there are no companies supplying false excess heat today. After all, this bill is intended to ensure that we do not get into the situation that there are companies that are starting to supply false excess heat to the district heating network. This is, of course, absolutely crucial in relation to our overall climate and energy policy. This is not a new concept. I can actually say that the first time I encountered it, it was the then energy minister, Svend Auken, who introduced me to the concept of false excess heat. After all, this is to ensure that the surplus heat used is real, real surplus heat and that no companies are starting to produce surplus heat. We must ensure this in the way we organise our tax policy. I was also very much taught about this in the morning of time, as I myself was forward with similar views that the questioner is making here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183721	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183723	The minister wanted the customers' mouthpieces. I think, in fact, that I would choose to consider the mayors who have approached this case as a mouthpiece for district heating customers, and we have also had some organisations on the field. So I actually think things are covered. I think that this bill puts pressure on some municipalities by having an opportunity before 1 January. If it is the case that you are a municipality where there is an urban growth, where you have made some of the investments in a district heating solution, and where you are in some processes where you, for example, have made some of the investments in a district heating solution. to convert a coal power plant into a more sustainable solution, or to have to sign a binding contract on geothermal supply for the next 30 years, it may be beneficial to have a certainty that there are customers for the district heating. It has to be said, then, that the municipalities have this opportunity before New Year's. I think it is a little too bad that there is that pressure on them, and I do not think there is any reason to belittle them because they cannot lay budgets and so on. They are just facing huge investments, where it is an advantage to have consumers for the district heating solution that you are about to choose for the next 30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183840	Yes, thank you. It's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183841	Thank you for the question. I am basically of the opinion that citizens, consumers should be given freedom and that no one should be forced into district heating. That is the basic position of me and the government, and that is also what is part of the energy agreement. I want to leave the customers as free as possible, but at the same time I also want us to ensure that our district heating sector is as competitive as possible. I think that district heating is something really, really positive and is something that I too, as an old district heating man, am really happy about, but I am quite concerned that it is also a competitive district heating. In relation to the issue of municipalities, I would like to say that I find it difficult to see what the idea would be of making an obligation to remain at a time when district heating has been rolled out in an area and has probably also ensured that district heating is competitive.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183928	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205183929	It is true that there are some urban communities where the infrastructure has rolled out. But there are also municipalities in Denmark where there is a growth. For example, it does. in Aarhus. There will be new areas in Aarhus, where you expand the city and where you plan for it to be part of the shared district heating. It is in such areas that you have the opportunity in the municipalities and I hope that they will hear out there that you can then adopt some consumer bonds if it is the case that you want a district heating supply with a large customer base. There I can understand on this matter that the Left places some individual freedom higher than ensuring that the community creates the good solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205184009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205184010	Thank you for the question. Yeah, not least in new heat areas. One can of course discuss the obligation to remain, and there may be some discussion about what the effect is of it, also in relation to whether there are municipalities which now choose to implement the obligation to remain in existing heating areas before New Year. But in relation to new people, I just have to say that it should be a matter of course that you do so in a way that you do not force someone to join in the common if you have other options to choose. And there are areas where there are some who want to have a heat pump instead of a district heating line. They should have that freedom too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205184044	Then we thank the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181205184103	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 6 December 2018, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. The meeting is adjourned.
