ParlaMint-DK_20180417130016	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130048	Finn Sørensen (EL) has applied for leave from 17 April 2018, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130116	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Enhedslisten in Copenhagen Storkreds, Jette Gottlieb, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 17 April 2018, on the occasion of Finn Sørensen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130141	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 106 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130213	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 48 by Benny Engelbrecht (S), Bent Bøgsted (DF), Eva Kjer Hansen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 8 (EL). Proposal for adoption No V 48 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 47 by Mr Henning Hyllested (EL) and motion for a resolution (Doc. V 49 of Josephine Fock (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130335	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130344	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 23 (DF), against 55 (V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 28 (S). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130418	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130441	Thank you, President. It is a small piece of information for the Folketing, which is mostly addressed to the government and, in particular, to the Minister of Justice. After all, there has been an answer from the Ministry of Justice, and that is an answer to a question from me, namely whether the government could refer to judgments by the Court of Human Rights which allowed the motion for a resolution to be rejected. And after a six-page long answer one comes to the very end that no, there are no judgments to which one can refer. Why is that an important answer, and why should we take it up? This is simply because the government then has an opportunity to endorse this resolution, which is not contrary to the Constitution, and which we do not consider to be contrary to the conventions either. And in order to be sure that this is contrary to the conventions, there must be a judgment, and since there are no judgments, the government will have to agree to this proposal so that we can have a judgment from down there which will show that we are probably right because there are a large number of parallels, as we have also written in the motion for a resolution. I know that the Minister for Justice has just returned from the Council of Europe, where he has had a great victory. After all, it has been a pleasure to interpret the Convention a little more flexible, flexible and flexible. I should then say that the government should support the Danish People's Party in this excellent resolution. I do not know whether the Minister would like to reply, because we would appreciate that very much in the Danish People's Party, because we have excellent cooperation with the Minister for Justice. So I look forward to that, otherwise we will have to take it somewhere else, but I hope that the Minister would like to come up and say a few words of civility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130639	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130645	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 23 (DF), against 83 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130715	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130752	We shall vote on the final adoption of the proposal and the vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously and will now be sent to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130826	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130854	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130917	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130937	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417130959	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417131016	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417131029	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The proposal referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-4 member of the Committee? They are adopted. The proposal referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners]. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF). In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The vote shall be taken on the sub-amendment No: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 6 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417131255	The minister would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417131304	Thank you. I mentioned in my speech in connection with the first reading of L 136 that there is no clarification with the KL on the financial consequences of the bill. In the same vein, I promised to inform the Danish Parliament about the development of the matter. I shall take the floor briefly now and here in order to give an assessment of the matter. KL contested primarily estimates at target group size, which were the basis for the calculation of the economic impact of the bill, i.e. how many persons would be covered by this extension of individual disabled driving. However, the Ministry has been able to demonstrate that the size of the target group used is in line with the Danish Blind Society's assessment of the target group size. KL has now agreed with the Ministry's estimate of additional costs for the municipalities. The economic discussions with KL have thus been concluded and are in line with the overall framework provided for in the 2018 Rate Pool Agreement. If the proposal is adopted, it may therefore enter into force on 1 July 2018 as originally provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417131415	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417131420	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I will take a very short break so that Members who do not need to be present at first reading can go out so that we can have quiet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417131600	The debate is open, and that is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417131624	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution. This is not the first time we have a debate on the penal code's racism clause. The racism clause has been the subject of debate over the past many years. There is a good reason for this, because the limits of freedom of expression are a very topical issue in the time we live in. I am pleased to have the opportunity here in the Danish Parliament to stress that freedom of expression is a bourgeois-liberal core value which is very dear to me personally and to the government. Freedom of expression is something we must safeguard, and the government, like the proposers, is concerned about securing it. Freedom of expression is a fundamental prerequisite for democracy and the foundation of political debate............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is why I can easily see the immediate wisdom of this motion for a resolution, which aims to narrow the scope of the racism clause and thus to improve the protection of public debate. Precisely because freedom of expression is so dear to this government, we have chosen to set up a Freedom of expression commission. The Freedom of Speech Commission will assess the framework and general conditions of freedom of expression in Denmark, and the racism clause will be included in that assessment. The racism clause, as today's debate also shows, is an example of a provision that continually creates debate on the limits of freedom of expression, including the voices of the citizen. The Commission may make general recommendations and the work of the Commission shall form the basis for a political debate on the expression of freedom of expression in Denmark. It follows from the Terms of Reference of the Freedom of expression Commission of December 2017 that it is necessary to complete its work by the end of 2018. It has always been clear that it was a very strict and ambitious timetable that put the Commission under considerable pressure, not least bearing in mind the breadth of the mandate. The Commission began its meeting in January of this year, and now, after a number of meetings, there is a recognition from the Commission that a thorough examination of all the themes on which it is assumed that the Commission will deal will take longer than the small year originally allocated. Having said that, I can assure you that the Commission is working on high pressure, and it is my clear expectation that keeping the cadence will be able to reach its goal during the first half of 2019. And then there will therefore be a solid basis for a political and I hope that more wide-ranging public debate on freedom of expression will be held. The Government agrees that there is a need to look at whether the scope of the racism clause should be restricted, but it is the Government's view that a final position on whether and, where appropriate, how to amend section 266b of the Criminal Code should await the recommendations of the Commission on Freedom of Movement. However, there is nothing to prevent us, while the Commission is working, from examining the legal framework for amending the paragraph. I have therefore asked my officials to start legal reflections on the relationship between section 266b of the Criminal Code and Denmark's international obligations, so we are ready when the Freedom of expression commission finishes its work. With this reason, I can inform you that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, but at the same time I would like to say that we in the government will go openly to further discussions with the Folketing on this important and relevant issue. I look forward to receiving the initiative of the Freedom of expression commission for this debate as well. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132019	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132024	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply, although I am sorry that it does not go our way in relation to the specific motion for a resolution. But that is something else I would like to ask the Minister, and it is a question of the Minister wanting to wait for the Freedom of expression commission. I think that, at the same time and in parallel to this work, we can have a debate on how we want to set up these frameworks, and then, of course, at a later stage, find out what the Commission says when it may be ready sometime in 2019. I would just like to ask the Minister: should we interpret this as meaning that, in general, every time a commission is set up, we shall have to wait for the conclusions of that Commission before we can change anything? As I know, should another commission be set up, a criminal code commission should we also wait for the question of amending other parts of the criminal code until this commission comes to a conclusion? For then I just have to say that we will not have much to do in the Committee on Legal Affairs in the future. So I just need to know if this is going to set a precedent on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132127	I think it has to be said that it depends very much on what sort of timeframe we are working on. The questioner knows very well that section 266 has been in force for many years, so that we have to wait a little longer to unfold it when we have asked someone to investigate it, I think is fair enough. Perhaps, for the same reason, we have held back a little from setting up the Penal Code Commission. It has not been reduced yet, and it is not, because I very much agree that we should be careful that it does not mean that we saw, for example. It is not possible to adopt any restrictions, such as punishments. Therefore, to be honest, I have stepped a little water with it, and we must then have a talk about how we handle it. It is just to say that with that time horizon and when there is legislation that has been discussed so much, we can probably wait for it. And I really thought that I was quite accommodating in my paper here about how we should try to look at it afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132228	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132229	I can confirm this last point, and I would also like to acknowledge that it was a response to some points. But my surprise is that this is one, you might say, relatively limited issue. It's not the entire criminal code you're looking at. It's section 266 b. That is why it should be thought that it was relatively concrete to deal with, as it is not an overflight of the entire criminal law. Can the Minister not see that it would be okay to adjust this particular part? And then it is true that work must be set in motion in relation to the rest, and that is certainly something that we will be discussing on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132307	It's because we put this under the Freedom of expression commission. A criminal code commission will not be able to bar as quickly as a Freedom of expression commission can, and when we ask some good people and some experts to sit down and do a job, we will want to wait, in respect of it. But that is also why I hope that the questioner has noticed that while it is working, we can check both internationally and at home whether there are any barriers and frameworks we need to look at, and when the Commission then holds its result, we must take the discussion, also as it is running, because we must have a free and open debate on it, of course we must.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132340	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Bødskov as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132352	Thank you for that, President. As the Minister for Justice has rightly pointed out, freedom of expression is a very, very important fundamental element for and in our democracy. It is a right that we must protect, but also fight every day to protect. It is important that we, as citizens of society and as debaters, politicians, ordinary citizens and others, take advantage of the freedom of expression that we have and that others have fought for. There must be room for an open debate where opinions can be broken and where attitudes can be tested, and it is important that citizens can correct criticism, both in general debate with each other and not least with us politicians, against the institutions of society and also against religions. A modern society like ours must be able to accommodate this, and there must of course be room for that. But I also believe that if you listen a little to the public debate and perhaps look at the social media in particular, you will see that much has changed in recent years. The debate has become more harsh, language has become more offensive, much has become more offensive, and not least on social media, of course, it is a development that we can see. Our basic view is that we must have a tough debate, we must be able to tolerate a tough debate, but we must also take care of the boring trend that has developed. And it is a devastating trend for our culture of debate; a culture of debate which, of course, traditionally in a modern democracy and a modern society such as the Danish one, has helped drive attitudes and our society forward. This is a trend that we must take care of because, not least as politicians, we have a responsibility to take the dialogue and confrontation and also to fight for our freedom of expression. We need to be aware of how we talk to each other. We must ensure that we can have a good and constructive, but also a tough debate, but also a proper tone. That is why I am also pleased that we will once again have a debate here in the Parliament on the racism clause, that is, section 266 b of the penal code. Because it helps to ensure that we can express ourselves, but it also helps to ensure that we cannot say anything and that we also have to answer for what we say. No one can disagree that freedom of expression is an essential foundation of our democracy. But I also hope that we can all agree that there must be a lower limit to what can be said about others in the public debate without being accountable for it. There must be a limit to what can be said about the background of other people, whether it be about race, nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation or religion. The lower limit is, of course, the racism clause which is now in place to ensure that it is maintained. After all, the proposal is not about the complete abolition of the racism clause, as we have seen in the past, but about the adaptation or narrowing of the paragraph. That does not change the position of the Social Democrats on the proposal. We believe that the racism clause, as I have said, helps to ensure a lower limit on what can be said about others, without having to answer for it, and we believe that there are good reasons for maintaining the racism clause as it stands today and do not see any basis for either narrowing it down or abolishing it. We have every confidence that the courts, and we can see that in their work today, can easily make a simple and individual assessment of the cases running in the courts when statements are to be tested, when the penalty is to be judged, and when the courts have to decide whether or not they have gone too far in individual cases. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132756	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132801	Yeah, I'm freaking out now. In fact, the rapporteur referred to something that was quite right in his speech, and this was the question of the fact that the proposal does not, of course, lay the foundations for complete abolition, but rather narrowing it down, and I had the pious hope that it might be either naive or naive when I appeared in this Chamber today that it had to be able to see itself in. Because on the one hand, Mr. Morten Bødskov, you might say, if you adopt this proposal, the guarantee that the provision will still be found there will certainly be fenced around it and, on the other hand, I have to live with it that it is still there, that it is not a total abolition, but that you can use it in fewer cases, so that you can curb the inflation that is in the cases. So when I hear Mr. Morten Bødskov, rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important that we adopt what the Danish People's Party is proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132859	No, not really. Because if you read what the proposal says, you will see that it says that in future it will only be possible to judge under § 266 B if it is a statement that clearly and unequivocally calls for hatred. What about threats that are in the paragraph today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132926	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417132928	- Sir, you can. After all, Morten Bødskov has the opportunity to ask me when I am going to be on the platform later in the day, because I would like to explain that. But the point is, when it comes to this provision, that with the proposal here we are saying 'and I think it would actually be good to have the test tested'. On the one hand, we are living with the fact that the proposal exists, because we accept that there is not a majority in favour of abolishing the racism clause completely, but on the other hand there are also some clear safeguards being put in place so that there is no such inflation as is currently taking place if we look at the number of judgments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133003	We are very much involved in discussing this. After all, we have also had a discussion of this proposal several times in the Parliamentary Assembly. It is quite good that the views are aired and that, in the debates we have in the Danish Parliament, we also have a discussion about where the limit is going here. I think that is certainly relevant. The reason why we cannot support this proposal is that, as I said with our glasses, it is a proposal which, of course, will fundamentally change the paragraph as we know it today, and thus open to expressions which will mean, if you read what it says here, that it will become more permissible to threaten people, to mock people and to talk demeaningly about people on the basis of their race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin or sexual orientation. Social democracy will not be a part of this, and that is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133104	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Britt Bager, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133110	The resolution here is about changing section 266b of the penal code, the so-called racism clause. As both the Minister and the previous rapporteur have said, the purpose of the provision is to protect vulnerable groups from hate speech from which the groups may feel insulted or demeaned. The authors of the motion for a resolution suggest that, in future, this provision can only be judged in the case of statements which clearly and unequivocally call for hatred of a particular population and which risk disturbing public order. The proposal to amend the paragraph follows on from a multiannual debate on how to ensure freedom of expression in the best possible way, while protecting minorities and protecting against hate speech. Freedom of expression is a fundamental prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy and for the development of society in general, and I fully agree that we must do everything we can to promote constructive democratic dialogue. It is indisputable that we must safeguard the open and open debate on which our people's rule is based, and I am convinced that we are fighting racism, intolerance and prejudice through the free debate. But it's a very delicate balance that we're dealing with here. For although we fully support the free dialogue and debate, we have groups in society that experience hatred and discrimination. It is therefore very important that we ensure that there are still provisions in the criminal code that catch, for example, gross racist statements and the like. This requires thorough consideration, and it requires an enlightened basis for discussing it. That is why I also welcome the fact that the Ministry of Justice has set up the Freedom of expression Commission, which is part of the government base. The mandate emphasizes this particular paragraph, § 266b, and that the Commission should examine the use of the paragraph. This work is expected to be completed during the first half of 2019. In the Left, we agree that there is a need to look at the scope of the racism clause. We also believe that this work should be done on an enlightened basis, and that is why we will await the forthcoming work of the Freedom of expression commission. We do not support the Danish People's Party's proposal to change the racism clause at this time, but we look forward to a discussion when the Freedom of Freedom Commission makes its presentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133358	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133403	I really wanted to thank the rapporteur, because the rapporteur is a member of a party that has helped to abolish the blasphemy clause, and we in the Danish People's Party are very pleased about that. We think this could be a good start to what, hopefully, could be a parliamentary assembly where we helped to remove some of the clear and negative limitations of freedom of expression. So first of all, thank you for that in relation to the blasphemy paragraph. Now that this Freedom of expression commission is finished and there is, of course, a thorough conclusion coming to us and we have to discuss it, and if the Commission comes up with something that tastes like what is in this motion for a resolution, then I am curious whether the Left will say: that is fine, because some wise people have been working on it for a very long time and they are proposing it. So I just need to find out whether this is the attitude of the proposal that is being rejected or whether it is just because it is so low-practical: we are looking at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133504	It is true, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, that we have been involved in abolishing the blasphemy clause, and it also sends a signal that we are prepared to discuss what to do with the racism clause. So when I say that we will wait for the work of the Freedom of Freedom Commission, it is only out of respect for the fact that when we start work, we must also see what comes out of it. And it is also because we in the Left want to have a well-lit foundation to stand on. This is a paragraph that has existed since 1971, and therefore it is more important for us to make the right decision than when we do. Whether it will be today, or whether it will be in a year's time, is not so crucial. What matters is that we do this properly and thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133552	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417133605	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have pointed out, this draft law restricts the scope of section 266b of the penal code, the racism clause, to refer only to statements that disrupt public order. There are several things about the motion for a resolution that amaze me. First of all, the disruption of public order is already regulated elsewhere in the criminal code. Therefore, I think it would be strange that it should also fall under this paragraph, or that this paragraph should be changed to have that focus. So that's the first thing. The second point is that, as I read the motion for a resolution, the number of cases sentenced under this paragraph has increased. Firstly, there are very small numbers. Secondly, we don't know what the numbers are. In other words, we do not know whether this is the result of a change in case law, or whether it is due to the fact that more reviews have been made, because more attention has been paid to, among other things. Hate crime, or whether it is about the rhetoric becoming more violent, that we are expressing ourselves in a slightly harsher way now, because the social debate has moved forward. So there may be many reasons why we have seen an increase in the number of cases that are convicted under this paragraph, and before we like to know the background, I think we in the Enhedslisten think it would be strange to go in and change the paragraph. Of course, in the best of all worlds a racism clause would not be necessary at all, for in the best of all worlds we lived in a world where minorities were not subjected to hateful speech or hetz or were demeaned on the basis of their skin color, religion or sexuality. Unfortunately, it's just not the kind of world we live in. Unfortunately, we do not live in a world without racism and discrimination, which is why we need section 266b of the Criminal Code. In the Enhedslisten, as previous rapporteurs are also, we are very much in favour of freedom of expression, but we are also very much in favour of the protection of minorities, and in this case there are two rights that are in a way opposite each other and where we need to find the right balance. And in the Enhedslisten, we believe that this balance has been found in the current racism clause. It is not an obstacle to public debate that we should not express ourselves racistly. In Denmark it is fortunately the case that one can easily come forward with one's views and opinions, and most importantly we can have a debate without expressing racist sentiments that incite hatred. Although a racist expression does not disturb public order, it can still incite hatred and demonisation, and therefore the definition of the Danish People's Party in this motion for a resolution would not put up the stumbling block that the racism clause should be able to. Demonisation of social groups is a problem because it can lead to racist acts, both minor crimes such as discrimination, which several minorities unfortunately experience, but also very serious crimes such as hate crime and attacks on people on the basis of their ethnic background or sexuality. And if we push the limits in here for what can be politically and socially acceptable, then we will also move the limits of what is acceptable to do. That is why we believe in the Enhedslisten that it is important that we have the racism clause as the ultimate stop point, because we cannot have a society that speaks minorities down. The racism clause is there for that very reason, namely to prevent the harshest and most generalising statements. One last thing, which I am also very much surprised about, is that I think we lack some concrete examples of what these are positions that the Danish People's Party does not think there is room for in the public debate with the current racism clause. We cannot support the motion for a resolution in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417134024	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417134033	Thank you for the floor. The authors of the motion for a resolution B 76 want to restrict the provision of racism in a way that can only be applied to statements which threaten to disrupt public order. And we basically think that in LA is a very good proposal, because I am sure that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen has a thorough knowledge of LA's work programme and is therefore aware that this work programme states that we want the abolition of the racism clause to be abolished. If we do not then vote in favour of the proposal, it is for some rather boring procedural or procedural reasons, because that is the way we have heard about what we have heard about in the past that a Commission on Freedom of Expression has been set up. We ourselves have helped to achieve this, because we want to strengthen freedom of expression in Denmark. And there we see it as such that, now that a commission has been set up to examine this issue, it is therefore very reasonable to wait for its final conclusions and see what it comes to. This practice of setting up commissions in the '00s and then rejecting them the day before they published their final report is not a good way of doing things. We therefore have considerable sympathy for the proposal and very much agree with the premise. However, we would very much appreciate the fact that the Commission is completing its work and therefore we cannot support Amendment B 76. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417134231	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417134241	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution on the amendment of the penal code's racism clause. They propose that in future we can only be judged by that provision in the case of statements which clearly and unequivocally call for hatred of a particular population on the basis of race, nationality, ethnicity, sexual orientation or religion, and which threatens to disrupt public order. In other words, what we are proposing here is that we do not want to abolish the paragraph, but that we narrow its scope to include statements which could disrupt public order. As I have followed in the debate, the Danish People's Party has initially wanted to abolish the paragraph completely, but since there is no majority in the Danish Parliament for it, it has instead been chosen to propose this amendment. As the Minister for Justice has also said, a Commission has been set up to look at how and how this paragraph of racism can be applied, and we would like to await that statement before we take a position. Having said that, I think it is a really, really interesting discussion, that is, the discussion about having a racism clause. Because it is quite clear that there will be some arguments for the abolition of a racism clause. This basically means that freedom of expression is restricted because people are told that there are some things they cannot say, and that is to say that it is to the detriment of the free public debate. Because if you're going to have a society where opinions are broken, no matter how harsh they can be, you have to have total freedom of expression. It can also be said that it is only in totalitarian countries that state power is actually trying to control people's voices and restrict them. It can also be said that the racism clause really helps to increase the focus on these statements, because a case is being brought just now and there may be a judgment. So, in fact, some of the statements that are biding to be kept to death can gain much greater public attention. What I think there is to say against the abolition of the racism clause is that it does not restrict the individual's right to express his or her opinions on, for example. a religion or sexual orientation, but it protects people from generalisations and racist statements because of, for example, ethnicity, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, skin colour or race. In other words, it protects against racism because it is forbidden to insult or violate a particular population group through its statements. Another argument for opposing is that words are not harmless. And it is important to protect minority groups from hatepeech, which is precisely defined by the fact that it is publically intended to demean or threaten or otherwise stigmatise persons and social groups because of their again ethnic background, belief or sexual orientation. It can then be said that neither the Danish constitution nor the European Convention on Human Rights provide unconditional freedom of expression. After all, in our criminal law, we already have a number of provisions that limit freedom of expression. That is, for example, the case. the libel clause or threats and verbal calls for violence. So there is both for and against. I do not think that the argument that there are an increasing number of cases means that we should abolish it now and here. In the parliamentary group of the Alternative, we have not taken a position on this, because, as has just been said, there is for and against it, and that is also why we think it would be premature to take a position on it now. We would very, very much like to see the statement that comes from the Freedom of Freedom Commission, and that is why we are waiting to take a position. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled here by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417134716	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417134723	Thank you. We also have a tiny bit of difficulty understanding the motivation for this proposal. It is, as far as I can understand, that there has been an increase in the number of cases. It would also be possible to see the increase in cases and convictions as an expression of the fact that more racism or more racist statements are taking place in our society, and I do not really find this difficult to understand after a refugee crisis and also after the emergence of social media, which, of course, gives a much more open and sometimes more spontaneous debate. So I am not really surprised that we have seen that increase. It is not, in fact, the fault of the racism clause; it may have more to do with the development of society, and that is precisely where I think the racism clause is helping to draw a line in the sand. To move on to the next point, namely the proposal for how to amend this paragraph, i.e. by linking it to a requirement for it to disrupt public order, I would say that I already see our racism clause as a safeguard against disrupting public order. Because it is precisely about the fact that we in Denmark have agreed that we do not want a public order where it is legitimate to incite hatred between groups. Public order is made up of just what can be said to be common agreement that you do not use race, descent, sexuality, etc. to incite hatred against each other. That is public order, and that is what we have adopted. That is why I think that the paragraph already meets that requirement today. Finally, if you look at the paragraph, perhaps I think that there are some wordings that may seem a little out of date today, including the current debate. It may not quite make sense with words such as that demeaning the word threatening makes sense.But instead of saying demeaning and insulting, you might want to talk about demonizing or dehumanising, which I really think is the most problematic. Because after the whole debate on the Mohammed drawings, we agree that everyone must be able to tolerate being ridiculed and so on, but where people are dehumanised or demonised, I think that is where this is going to be problematic. That is why we are not, in fact, opposed to looking at new wordings, but what is crucial to us is that we have a clause that sets a very clear limit on the extent to which one can afford to incite hatred for one another or for different groups in society. In fact, one can also interpret the racism clause as an libel clause for a group. I mean, if somebody comes by and calls me a child molester or something like that, I can do an injuresag. The same could be said of the racism clause, i.e. that is the possibility one has as a whole group. If some people make such accusations against you, you can take a racism case or somebody else can do it on your behalf. What I also think is important about the racism clause is that it concerns the majority's obligation to protect the minority. So it's not the minority that has to go to court and take a case, but the majority is actually obliged to draw this line in the sand for the minority. Then I'm actually a little curious to know what kind of voices you'd like to have. Was it the spitting man who didn't need a ticket because he spit on these fugitives and made some racist calls to them? Or what about such myths from the old days, when there were many who believed that Jews abducted Christian boys to drink their blood? What is the context of the racism clause is that the type of myths that have incited hatred and also caused discrimination and violent violence against minorities has flourished. Today it may not be equally true of the Jews, and yet there is a pronounced Jewish hatred and anti-Semitism in our society, but it is of course also Muslims who are very much affected today by in fact many of the same type of statements and generalisations. That is why I think we need the racism clause. There is no doubt that I do not see it as a ban on having certain positions. You may be a racist, but the moment you instrumentally try to speculate on inciting hatred between groups, you get at odds with the racism paragraph. That is why I think it is quite appropriate that we, as a society, should have it, not only to protect minorities, but also to protect public order.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417135226	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417135236	Thank you, President. Thanks to DF for raising this, although I think it is a little bit premature, because we have just a Freedom of expression commission to work on this, a proposal that the SF presented in January 2016 and that came into the new government's foundation. It is very good because things have to be seen in context, and I think it is good that we are discussing this and finishing this discussion before we go further. But just a little bit of history. The racism clause was introduced in Denmark in 1971 on the basis of a UN convention, and at that time both the Social Democrats, the Left and the Conservatives were actually critical and said: is this the best way to counter unsympathetic attitudes? Is it not in the democratic debate that we should take this? The greatest critic at that time was actually SF's Poul Dam, who said: Unsympathetic statements must be combated under the conditions of freedom. In Denmark, too, we do not, at least to a large extent, prohibit either racist or Nazi organisations, although most of us think that their positions are terrible. It is because we think it is better to get it out into the light and could fight those attitudes with words than to have it in the dark. That is why we in the SF are also in favour of changing the racism clause and cutting it up. The Minister for Justice, Thestrup, said in 1971, when it was also debated here, that the prosecution should be cautious in raising cases. In other words, when this was introduced, there should really be a restriction on it, because unsympathetic attitudes or something we may disagree on must be taken into account in the public democratic debate. So summa summarum, I do not see that a proposal made by DF would mean that it would not, of course, continue to be illegal with libel, that it would not continue to be illegal to call for violence against certain groups. We already have protection for all these things in the penal code. I think we should wait for the Freedom of expression commission to finish its work and then take it up again, but I would also like to explain how we see this in the SF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417135527	Thank you, there are no comments. Then the next sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417135536	We in the Conservative People's Party are in principle also in favour of relaxing the racism clause. We're on the side of freedom of speech on this issue. There is no real political debate without freedom of expression. There is no democracy without freedom of expression. If you have democracy without freedom of expression, you are a banana republic. The government has already taken a major and important and fundamental step in the fight for freedom of expression. We have abolished the blasphemy clause • the religious does not need special protection from blasphemy at the expense of freedom of expression. The Conservative People's Party also has a vision of relaxing the racism clause, because not all conflicts can be resolved by means of punishment and legislation. In principle, we believe that the only expression to be criminalised is when it calls for violence or unlawful acts. In Denmark, with our strong civil society, we must be able to speak racism in the middle, even if it is not criminal. I think we are strong enough for that in Denmark. That is why we also believe that we should be constantly aware of how freedom of expression is in Denmark. And that is precisely why the government has set up a commission to assess how freedom of expression is really going in Denmark. So why not back on DF's proposal today? We do not do so because it will short-circuit the process for the committee. They are currently working to look at the racism clause ^ the advantages and disadvantages and therefore, at this stage, it will be untimely interference. Let's wait for the commission's work, then we can take a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417135737	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417135750	Thank you. In Denmark we pay tribute to our freedom of expression. We pride ourselves on being able to say exactly what we think, what we think, what we believe, and what we feel; but that is not quite right, because in Denmark we have section 266b of the penal code, the racism clause. Over the last few years we have seen an increase in the number of cases where section 266b of the Penal Code is used to come after certain statements. In the Danish People's Party we find it worrying that we are seeing an increase. We regard the paragraph as a poor restriction of the free word, where, of course, there can be very unbridled verbal shoots between people from time to time, but of course there can also be room for free debate. We most certainly saw that § 266b was completely abolished. We have tried to do this on several occasions without success, and of course we are sorry about that. Now we are trying to find a new way, because although we are opposed to the paragraph, we can count the number of seats in the Danish Parliament and see that there is a majority that wants to preserve it. That is why we are now trying to make this proposal. We want to be able to use the paragraph only if it is a matter of utterances that clearly call for hatred of a particular group of people and at the same time have the risk of disrupting public order so that we can preserve peaceful speech. Our proposal is therefore to set up clear fence posts around the use of this paragraph. We hope, if the proposal is adopted, that it will then help to curb the inflation which appears to have gone into the use of precisely the racism clause. This parliamentary term marks a very great joyous event when it comes to freedom of speech, namely that the blasphemy clause was made the past. At that time, the abolition of the paragraph caused a great deal of debate. The Danish People's Party, of course, voted in favour of the excellent proposal that had been put forward to abolish the blasphemy clause, as we considered it obsolete and a thing of the past. At that time, we were told that it could be dangerous to abolish the paragraph, because everything could be put at risk. One could risk that people would suddenly take advantage of the fact that there was impunity in this area and that one would see a flare of the number of Danes who began to burn sacred books. I think we can see today that things were going well; in fact, things were going very quietly. I dare say that I have not yet come across cases where there have been massive burnings of some's sacred books or all sorts of other things, in fact, I have not heard anything about it since we changed the rules. That is why I do not think that we should always be so concerned about giving the Danes greater responsibility and greater freedom in relation to their own statements. Basically, I think the Danes can do a lot of themselves. Don't let the abolition of the blasphemy clause become the last joyous event on the freedom of speech front in this term of office... let it be the first. And let a limitation of § 266b become the next important mark. That is our clear call. The supporters of the current paragraph, which does not count us, will be able to reassure themselves that if we adopt our proposal, the paragraph will still be found, while the opponents who are absolutely us in the Danish People's Party will be able to rejoice that it will hopefully be used in fewer cases and therefore more limited than it is used today. I would also like to thank the Minister for his speech at the beginning of the debate. I think in many ways, although the Minister would not promise support for the proposal, that it was a welcoming speech, and I would like to sign for that, just as I would also like to thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for her review of history. I understand that right now there is a majority in favour of waiting for the commission that has been set in motion. We will, of course, stick to our proposals and we think in all modesty that this is an excellent proposal and then we will have to wait for the work that is under way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140232	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140235	Thank you. There is little understanding of the legal situation if the Danish People's Party gets its proposal through, so I ask with a specific case: On 9 March 2007 a judgment was handed down in Østre Landsret. It was a lady who was waiting at a bus stop with ten other people, and then someone said to her, quote: Tell your perker offspring not to look at me. Tell your perker offspring not to look at me. He was convicted of racism, and that was under current legislation. What would be the position of such a statement if the Danish People's Party's proposal were to come through? Will it also be illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140322	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, who, in addition to being a member of parliament, is also a lawyer, why Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen must be able to give a more comprehensive answer than I, as a non-lawyer, will be able to. But the thing is, I don't have sympathy for such a statement. I can't be sympathetic to people talking ugly to each other. Nor can I sympathize with it if some people in this Chamber or colleagues talk ugly to each other, regardless of what you talk ugly about or why you have to do it. The only question is whether it should be illegal to do so. And with this proposal, we are clearly aimed at saying that, if there is a risk of disturbing public order, if that is what the courts can judge, and if it is, at the same time, an unequivocal hatred of a particular group, then that is where the fence posts stand. Then we just hope that there will be fewer cases in the future where you use this paragraph. I think my speaking time has passed. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140428	It is right now. Here you go, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140431	Yes, it was not clear to me whether it was still illegal. The circumstances are quite clear. Ten men are waiting at a bus stop, and one man says the words quoted to the lady. I asked if it would be illegal in the future. I wasn't really smart about that, so I'll try another example, also from 2007. Here we are at a football match at Søborg Stadium, and there is a spectator who, in the presence of 10-15 people, shouts, quotes: Negro pigs, negro balls, black pigs after one of the players. He or she will be convicted according to the penal code's racism clause. Will he also be convicted if the Danish People's Party writes the rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140511	No, that is, if the Danish People's Party had 90 seats, the provision would have been completely abolished. I can promise you that. Now we're trying to narrow down what we can use this provision for, but I can't under any circumstances have sympathy for such statements. But just because I do not sympathize with them or think that you should speak properly, it is not certain that I need to ban it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140532	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140535	Can I then ask the rapporteur to take a closer look at what this is about disturbing public order means? What are some statements that will no longer be included in the racism paragraph? What should we put into disturbing public order?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140554	Our tiredness over this paragraph comes primarily from the fact that we have seen that it is being used in more and more cases and that we have a desire to try to find some way to restrict its use, while respecting the fact that there is a majority in the Folketing that will actually hold onto it. That is, in fact, the clear starting point. When we talk about specific cases, as the previous questioner mentioned, it is difficult for me to judge each individual case and say where exactly that cut should lie. But what we're trying to do here is we're trying to say that we're pulling back a little bit, pulling it in a different direction and saying that this is going to be used less than today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140640	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140642	It was very, very unconcredibly. If you have to convince us at least and perhaps also some more, you might want to become a little more specific about what this disturbing public order is all about. Then I would just like to hear: fortunately this is not the case anymore, but for many years and some time ago it was a persistent myth that Jews abducted Christian children and drank their blood. If we now imagine the situation that some people are beginning to spread the rumor that it happened until recently, who handed out flyers about it and made a facebook group about it, how would the rapporteur deal with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140722	We have a clear desire to punish for what may be real threats. One can then discuss whether it is a threat and whether it will be something that disturbs public order, such as the United States. This proposal is aimed at. There will still be various limitations. I mean, I'm not standing on this platform and saying that everything has to be free, that all restrictions on freedom of expression have to be removed. This is about § 266b, which we propose should be removed. But that's not the same thing as saying that you can just walk around and say anything, and that you can run around and threaten people, and then people have to live with it. It won't be like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140758	Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140800	Thank you. It is quite true that we have seen an increase in the number of cases, but that may also be an argument for the need to have § 266b as it is formulated today. But my question to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen is more concerned that there is, of course, a background for making this proposal in the Danish People's Party. I guess you have to have some concrete examples where it is believed that § 266b has stood in the way of public debate or stood in the way of freedom of expression, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen began his speech by saying something about it. Can we not try to hear some of the specific examples?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140841	I don't want to stand on Parliament's platform and read out specific judgments. But it is true that if you introduce these criteria, as we propose, then there will be a part of the paragraph today that falls away. So that means that you will be able to use it more narrowly than you can today, and that can also have an effect on the number of judgments that will arise in the future. But I am not going to stand and read out a specific verdict from the speaking chair of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140908	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140910	Then I will try to rephrase my question. If we stick to the freedom of expression, what opinions and factual things is it that the Danish People's Party believes that § 266b stands in the way of today? We believe, in essence, in the Enhedslisten, that we can have a debate in which everyone speaks and all opinions and factual things come out without it going to conflict with § 266b, which we believe to be the utmost stopping point. But when the Danish People's Party makes this proposal, it must be because you believe in the Danish People's Party that there are some factual things and some attitudes that do not emerge in the debate. And I am just surprised that the Danish People's Party has no concrete examples of what we are missing in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417140958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141000	The question is not whether they come forward or not. The question is, how does society act on these things? Because I believe that society must be able to have peaceful attitudes, peaceful utterances, but it is clear that the moment it is turned on to threats, for example, that it is turned on to actively disturbing public order, yes, it is clear that it is not utterances that are passive expressions of opinion; then it is something active, and then they are a problem. However, I believe that society should be able to accept positions which are expressed peacefully and where there is nothing violent in that or any other purpose than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141042	Thank you. And then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141106	The debate is open. Minister of Education, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141120	Thank you very much. With B58 the Danish People's Party has proposed a ban on distinctive religious symbols, including religious headgear for pupils and teachers in primary school. I would like to thank the DF for the proposal, because it is important that we discuss the massive problems that Denmark is experiencing in these years with parallel societies. However, let me start by stating that the government cannot support the proposal. DF justifies the proposal by stating that wearing religious headgear is a private matter which one carries out in one's spare time. It is DF's view that it should not be allowed to wear religious headgear if you are employed or are a student in primary school. Teachers must be both objective and neutral, and DF wants to free little girls from social and religious pressure. It is also mentioned that it is essential that the primary school rests on Danish culture with freedom and folk rule, and that special considerations create and maintain parallel societies and discourage integration. The proposal means that it must still be allowed to carry small discrete religious symbols such as a cross, a star of David or a crescent moon, for example. in the neck or ear pendant. It is the opinion of DF that under no circumstances should it be possible to be permitted locally to wear religious headgear, regardless of the religion it represents. First of all, let me say that I do not think that little girls should wear scarf or religious costumes. As a child in Denmark, you have the right to a free life for children and young people, where you can physically unfold. The dress must not prevent participation in sports, swimming or other activities during teaching time. Parents in Denmark should ensure that their children can participate freely in the teaching on equal terms with other pupils. The fact that we in the government cannot vote in favour of the proposal is partly due to the fact that the proposal imposes restrictions on the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 9, on freedom of religion. Such restrictions can only be made if they result from law and are necessary in a democratic society. It is the requirement of proportionality that we are talking about here, for the sake of some detailed considerations. In relation to both teachers and pupils, the motion for a resolution also raises questions in relation to section 70 of the Constitution, which prohibits discrimination with, among others. Confession of faith as a criterion for civil or political rights. Although the ban does not directly aim at certain beliefs, the ban only includes significant religious symbols such as headgear, and it is therefore in fact only certain beliefs that are affected. There has been no reference to objective considerations justifying such discrimination and, furthermore, it is a concern that, in its present form, the motion for a resolution will be able to prevent current practice and traditions in schools. It could be poaching, Lucia procession, etc. We must solve the problems of parallel societies in Denmark, and we must do so without undermining the rights and freedoms we have in Denmark at the same time. This is a difficult balancing exercise, and there is no doubt that we need to take action, and we have done so with the government's proposal to combat parallel societies. The primary school must prepare pupils for participation, co-responsibility and duties in a society of freedom and democracy, so that the school's activities must be characterised by freedom of spirit, equality and democracy. Once again, thank you to DF for putting forward the proposal and thereby contributing to the debate on how best to combat parallel societies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141457	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141500	Thank you. I would say that it is actually amusing to hear these debates, because most politicians, including the Minister, are beginning to agree with much of what we are saying by the Danish People's Party, and yet we cannot support it. It always puzzles me. In relation to this, if you can do so in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights, you just have to say that you have it in other countries, for example. in France there you can look at how they do it. In Austria, too, something is on the way. So I believe that this is clearly possible within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. That is the political will that is at stake. In view of whether this would be contrary to the Constitution, I would say that today we have a ban in our legal system, which is similar to this, against legal judges. It is arranged in a slightly different way, but it is also about the fact that distinctive religious symbols are not to be worn. So this can of course be included within the convention and the constitution. And as we know, could it not be that the Minister nevertheless wanted to support the proposal, because the Minister seems to agree with the Danish People's Party that one should of course not bear these very distinctive religious symbols in the primary school? At least that is how I understood what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141608	What I said was that when it comes to children in particular, they must be able to participate in education on equal terms with everyone else. This means that it is the parents' duty to send their children out in the morning with a clothing that allows them to attend classes, participate in sports, participate in swimming, participate in play and games, etc. It is also about not unequalising the children. And there it beats me as a woman that the scarf applies to the girls... it doesn't apply to the boys, it's a girl's outfit. And that is why I am also aware that it is important that it is a responsibility of parents in Denmark. If you choose to live in Denmark, you have a responsibility to send your children away on the first day of school, and they must be able to be Danish. It is one's own responsibility as a family, and it is also one's own responsibility to send them off in a way so that they can be included in teaching on equal terms with others. So I think that is a parental responsibility which I would very much like to stress that one has, and that is the expectation I have of parents in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141714	Thank you. What the scarf symbolizes is a certain view of women and of men. After all, it is about whether the woman or the girl who wears or does not wear the scarf is clean or unclean, is worthy or unworthy. And you could say that about what you want. But then we in the Danish People's Party believe that there we in the Danish Parliament should at least be able to agree that it is, after all, too violent to put something like this on girls in primary school. And I want to know if the minister agrees that what the scarf symbolizes and helps to emphasize is in this case a division of little girls into who are the right and the wrong, who are the clean and the unclean. Is it an acceptable sight to have in a primary school, such as: should be based on freedom of spirit?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141806	I certainly do not think that little girls should be sent to school with a scarf, and I think it is the parents' responsibility not to do so. Because you have to be able to enter freely and unhindered, both in teaching, but also in leisure areas and in all the games and pleasures that are going on there. You have to be able to go to camp. We simply need to be able to participate unhindered in the life of children and young people that we have in Denmark. It is the parents' responsibility to ensure this, and especially when we talk about young girls who are not of age and do not decide on their own clothing, it is the parents' responsibility to ensure that they can enter into an ordinary Danish child and youth life without hindrance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141844	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. It is Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democrat, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417141854	Thank you. In fact, social democracy is very much in line with the Minister of Education that a ban does not solve the challenges that the girls mentioned in the resolution may face. After all, we very much agree that we must combat social control and that small children should not be regarded as sexual objects. The only question is how we get to where the girls are protected, because children need protection from both. Those children and all children in Denmark must have room to grow up as independent and free people and also in a globalised world where we respect each other's beliefs, including when it comes to faith and religion. I then agree that pupils and adults at school, because it is also the adults who have to meet at their workplace in clothing, should not be prevented in the community and in participating in the teaching. When I read up on how many motifs have been described in different places for wearing a scarf, there is not much agreement on what the motive is, and I do not think that there will be among the parents in Denmark where young and underage children wear scarf. So I think we need to continue the dialogue on how to avoid parallel societies, where we feel it is necessary to illustrate some woman's thing or girling with a scarf that limits the child, because it is about the children being released to join and not about children walking around as highly religiously committed people at an early age. I do not think that a ban will help that. I think we need to increase dialogue, we also need to increase dialogue in schools, where we have parental boards, so parents also have an obligation to talk to each other about how to bring all children into education. I would then say that there are also other garments that restrict children in education. I sometimes see some little girls in princess clothes and salmon cow that are certainly not suitable for going on the sports track in. So it is also a general talk about how all children become equal in not being decorative cups, not being oppressed, not being adults' religious objects for something that prevents them from being equal pupils among themselves. So social democracy cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142125	Sir. Martin Henriksen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142127	Thank you. This reminds us a little of the discussion we have had about burka and niqab and the ban on cover for quite a number of years. It also started by saying from the government that the Liberal Alliance did not sit in the government and from the Social Democratic Party: we take the dialogue, we can talk them out, we will find a solution along the way. It has not been possible to do so, and that is why we end up ten years too late to say: OK, we are forbidding it before, after all, it becomes too extensive. Could the Social Democratic Party not just hurry to reach the conclusion that it took ten years to reach in relation to banning burka and niqab? For the positions that Mrs Karen J. Klint has put forward are actually very sensible, namely that little girls cannot be regarded as sexual objects. I also suspect that the view behind it, which many people put in the scarf, is rejected: those who wear it are viewed as clean and those who do not wear it as unclean. In other words, if the Social Democratic Party is in line with the Danish People's Party in these areas, I simply do not understand why we do not just strike and say: yes, of course we will ban it in our primary schools, because we will send out a clear and clear signal that it is unacceptable; that we should not be running around in this way as a pillar of advertising for a religion when we are in the 6th, 7th or 8th grade. Then you can discreetly wear a jewelry that you have received from your parents. With the resolution of the Danish People's Party, parents will still be able to give a crescent moon to their daughter if, as Muslim parents, they want to do so, as well as to mark their religious affiliation. That can still be done, so why is that not enough for the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142253	I don't think you can compare a scarf to a burka. A burka is incredibly limiting in the communication you have because others don't see the whole face. A scarf is much less intrusive, precisely because there are so many different motives for wearing a scarf. There are, in fact, some countries where it is said that it is a letter of freedom for women to wear it. In other countries even men wear covered heads, and there are not so many places to find it as a religious law. So there are simply so many motives for it, and that is where I think we should take care of which motives we attach to parents when children come with scarf. And that is why I say that children should be dressed to go to school and that they should be able to participate in all teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142340	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142343	So let me ask you this: does Mrs Karen J. Klint mean that she is Mrs Karen J. Klint's opinion and attitude, and is it the view and attitude of the Social Democrat that what the scarf symbolizes is that I can at least say that it is my position and the position of the Danish People's Party? is an attempt to signal who are the worthy women and who are the unworthy women. Those who wear the scarf are the right women, and those who do not wear it are the wrong women? It's very strange. It's pretty crazy, actually, but that's the way it is. Does Mrs Karen J. Klint share the view that it is basically what the scarf symbolizes? If Mrs Karen J. Klint shares that view, how can we, as a Social Democrat or as any other politician in this room, defend that we accept that the view of women and girls is being put down on little girls in primary school? One might well understand that an adult woman might be able to say that we would also ban it for public employees, but girls in primary school can't quit. They haven't learned it yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142444	What I tried to explain to the questioner was that there are so many different motives for wearing a scarf, and I will not judge what motive the specific parent has or the specific girl at school has for wearing a scarf. I think we need much more information that wearing a scarf is not a duty in relation to the Koran. Even in Turkey it has been banned for a period of time because it was regarded as something that was contrary to the secular. I just do not think that legislation is the right answer to ensure that girls and children and young people are protected at all from social oppression or are sent around as religious symbols at an age when they do not even know what they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142528	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142537	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating in this Chamber today is a ban on the use of distinctive religious symbols, including religious headgear, for pupils and staff in primary school. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution so that we can also have the debate in this Chamber. With the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution will actually allow themselves to say that it must be prohibited, for example, to use. Scarf. It is also said, however, that it is permissible to use small discreet religious symbols such as. Necklaces and earrings. I believe that the way to limit and prevent social control is also to ensure that parents take responsibility, that is to say, that this is the way to prevent and combat social control for that matter. The motion for a resolution has in its comments a clear and clear reference to the Muslim faith, and on that basis the proposal may, in my view, be unconstitutional, according to section 70 of the Constitution on freedom of belief. That is why I think it is also important to point out that Danish society is actually based on a number of basic freedoms and human rights, which our constitution has protected since its adoption in 1849. These are important democratic pillars, such as: freedom of religion, and that is also part of what I believe we must safeguard. It is therefore citizens' rights that this proposal seeks to go in and change. And it is precisely these rights for which the pupils must be prepared according to the primary school law's purpose clause. And now that we are discussing this with the primary school law's purpose clause, it is actually written there: "People's school, in cooperation with parents, must provide students with knowledge and skills that... make them familiar with Danish culture and history...·. I believe, of course, that rights such as this one are very much in my view. freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and, above all, freedom of religion are a major part of Danish culture and history, a culture and a history that says that there must be room for everyone. Finally, I would like to say that I do not believe that the right to wear religious symbols in public, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a very important one, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142835	Sir. Martin Henriksen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142837	Thank you. On November 20, 2017, there was a comment in Berlingske with the headline "Dragon Clothing Steals Girls' teenage Life." It was written by Anahita Malakians, who was a candidate for the Left for the Civil Representation, and now I quote from her speech: "I think it is sad and sad when I hear girls' children of 11 years of age consider themselves full-grown women. That they should now hide their beauty for that reason. A beauty associated with their sexuality, seductive expression and honesty. But an 11-year-old does not have sexual, chaste or seductive beauty! She doesn't have a beauty that needs to be smeared or saved to make her safe and safe from abuse...Because that's not how we think about children in Denmark! Our society should not accept that it is okay for her and all other girls to be sexualised from an adult perspective in these environments. It is the direct theft of the girls' present childhood and future youth. Does Mrs Anni Matthiesen agree with her colleague in the party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417142937	I would like to stress, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that I do not think that the way to go is to start banning scarves in primary school. In fact, I think, as a former rapporteur also said, that dialogue and, for that matter, parental responsibility are one of the things that needs to be addressed. Then I must also say that I think it is really, really important, whether you are religious or not religious, that you as a parent ensure that your child can function in the Danish primary school and that there should be no clothing whatsoever to prevent the child from participating in the teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143018	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143020	Mrs Anni Matthiesen does not answer my question at all. Mrs Anni Matthiesen's party colleague says, and in the Danish People's Party we fully agree with the view that the scarf is a direct theft of the girls' present childhood and future youth. She also says that our society should not accept that it is okay for her and all girls in these environments to be sexualised from an adult perspective. So, is the Left's point of view? If that is the view of the Left, does Mrs Anni Matthiesen agree with her party colleague? And if the answer is yes, is that the view of the Left, and why on earth would one accept it? If you are not in favour of banning, you will accept it. Then you say it's actually okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143102	You can, of course, combat social control in a number of ways. And I would like to emphasise that the Left is against social control. I will not begin to comment on a candidate's reading or for that matter article and relate to it here. But I can say that the Left is against making a ban on whether or not one should be allowed to wear a scarf in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143127	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143138	Thank you. The Danish People's Party will prohibit both students and teachers from wearing scarf in primary school. This is not about a general ban on religious symbols, as the Danish People's Party believes that it is fine that Christians and Jews bear religious symbols such as crosses, castles and david stars, but for Muslims the scarf must therefore be prohibited. In other words, this proposal is pure discrimination. This has nothing in common with the legislation in France, as I have heard Mr. Martin Henriksen claims. In France, all religious symbols, including crosses, castles and stars of David, are banned on the basis that the country is secular, that the state and church are separate, and that there is also no religious education in the primary school. This is not what the Danish People's Party is proposing with this proposal. This proposal is clearly in conflict with all Danish traditions about equality, freedom of spirit and belief, which the Danish People's Party in the motion for a resolution prides itself on wanting to protect, as is written in the comments on the proposal. I think it is quite unacceptable for some young girls to be forced to wear a scarf, but I think it is equally unacceptable if they are forced to take it off. People in Denmark must be allowed to wear a scarf if they want to. I don't want the state to decide that. I have to say that I may be a little puzzled by the lack of history in this debate. In addition to the fact that I think that good Danish traditions such as freeness, freedom and freedom of belief have been lost, I feel that when I look at old family photos of my great-grandmother and my grandmother, I can see that they have a scarf. They haven't been Muslims, but they've just followed the general fashion that was in the different times... a fashion that you can also see has been in the Danish folk costume. When I think it is relevant to bring up, it is because Mother can come and go, and I think it would be sad if the Danish People's Party succeeded in getting through that a fashion of putting a scarf around the head as a woman should be banned in Denmark. It is clear that the Danish People's Party says that this is about Muslims, and you can ask yourself what the consequence would be if this proposal were adopted. I believe that it would be a gift to extreme Islamists who would point out the hypocrisy of one rule for Christians and another rule for Muslims. It would be a gift that I in no way believe we in the Folketing should give to extreme Islamists. Instead, we must guard against fundamental Danish values such as freedom of spirit, equality and freedom of religion, also for the religious minorities here in Denmark. It is a proud Danish tradition that Jews, Christians and Muslims can live peacefully with each other. The Danish People's Party should not be allowed to destroy this, and that is why we are voting in the Enhedslisten against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143513	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143515	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen said and now I quote right after memory that the proposal is contrary to all ideals of equal worth. But what's the scarf? Does the Muslim scarf for Enhedslisten represent equality between men and women? Does the scarf represent it? Is it not the case that if there is something contrary to the ideals we have here at home and the values and principles of equal value, namely that we consider men and women to be equally worthwhile, then is it the Muslim scarf? Moreover, I would like to say for the record that if this proposal were adopted, it would apply to all religions. It's basically religion-neutral. It would forbid religious headgear. This means that Jews who carry a castle in primary school will also be affected by it. And big, marked symbols • it could be a very, very large cross, if you chose to have it on • then it would also be hit. But discreet jewelry would be okay. There is nothing to prevent some parents, for example. gives their child the Muslim crescent in a necklace or an earring or something like that, with our suggestions. But the question was really whether Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen does not believe that if there is anything contrary to the ideal of equal worth, it is very much the Muslim scarf.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143629	Well, first of all, you're gonna want to ask, isn't it, sir? Martin Henriksen has read the proposal he himself has made. It says literally: "Small discreet religious symbols like a cross, a star of David or a crescent moon, for example. in a neck or ear pendant shall still be permitted. ▪ So you go intently for a scarf, but you allow a cross and a star of David and a crescent moon as long as it is hidden. Well, I think it should be allowed in primary school to wear whatever clothes you want. I do not think we should stand here and legislate how teachers should be dressed or how students should be dressed; I think that is a proud Danish tradition. And I understand that sir... Martin Henriksen claims that the scarf should be a symbol of some form of oppression. In that case, the Danish folk costume is a symbol of oppression.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143738	That is, of course, a claim, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is welcome to tour with, that is, that Danish folk suits should be a symbol of oppression. It is not the claim of the Danish People's Party, but the Enhedslisten is welcome to take that stand. It's available, as far as I know. I'd like to know if Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen agrees that the view of women and men behind the Muslim scarf is that those who wear it can be regarded as being clean and worthy women, covered in the right way, and that those who do not wear it are unclean and unworthy. Is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen agrees that the basic vision lies behind the scarf?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143822	My point was that the scarf is not one symbol, which one can attribute to a very special value, and that the scarf is part of female headgear for centuries in Denmark. And I think it would be totally absurd to ban it. And I'm simply not buying Mr. Martin Henriksen's claim that wearing a scarf is the same as subjugating a woman's oppressive vision. So some of the bravest and coolest and freed women I've ever met have been wearing a scarf. It is not, of course, the same as that for all women, but basically I think it is a good democratic principle of freedom that the state should not decide what people should wear in clothes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143912	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143915	I was somewhat provoked by the fact that the rapporteur reduces the issue of scarf to be about fashion, and nothing but fashion. Why is it only fashion for women and not for men? Has it ever been fashionable for men? Why is it only for women?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417143933	I'm not reducing it to a matter of fashion, I'm just saying that my great-grandmother was wearing a scarf and that my grandmother was wearing a scarf. I know, like I said, they weren't Muslims. But I just think that a ban proposed here by the Danish People's Party, in relation to the fact that it should be forbidden for teachers and to be forbidden for students to wear a scarf, as my great-grandmother or my grandmother did, is a very far-reaching and unanswered intervention. So I'm not saying it's just a matter of fashion, like Mr. Naser Khader seems to have misunderstood.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144008	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144010	Well, your great-grandmother didn't wear a scarf because the Bible told her to wear a scarf. It had nothing to do with women's vision; there were some practical reasons why your great-grandmother wore a scarf. So I think we should be careful not to minimize it and say that it was done in the past. So now we're in the year 2018, and then you can't just say that your great-grandmother did it. We've evolved since then. I believe that one should hold on to the fact that the scarf as a symbol is women's oppressive, and I think it is a lack of respect in relation to the many women who are forced to wear scarf around the world, that it is reduced to just saying that your great-grandmother did it and that it is just fashion. I think there should be a little more respect for it, not that I am in favour of the proposal, but be careful not to minimize it and talk about your grandmother and fashion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144115	I'm not trivialising anything. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is quite unacceptable for any woman to be forced to wear a scarf, just as I think it is quite unacceptable for the state to force women not to wear a scarf. If we look into the world, we have seen that there are regimes that have imposed secularism on everyone; there are regimes that have imposed scarf on everyone. It is contrary to what is Danish tradition, and I want to uphold Danish traditions, safeguard our freedom, our free spirit, our freedom of faith and our equal value.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144150	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144203	Thank you for that, President. With this proposal, the proposers want to ban significant religious symbols in primary school. Between 1999 and 2008 I was a co-owner of a company. And if the question of wearing religious headgear in my company had come up at the time, my attitude to our board would have been that we should not allow that. And why would I have set for that? I would, because at the time I would have had the view that I too now, which is that the employees of my company should meet our customers and partners in a neutral way and in a way that could not give rise to a customer having any doubts about the company's attitude to the relationship between men and women, or to the relationship between right-wing and unbelievers, or to the idea that we in the company operated with a general idea of halal versus haram. Private companies now have the right to introduce a clothing regulation such as I am describing here. In the case of public undertakings, they are subject to a greater obligation than private companies not to discriminate in the sense defined by the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. And that means, as we have also said, that it would only be possible to implement B 58 if, at the same time, we abolished, for example. Lucia parade, poaching and Christmas in primary school at all. After all, it has not gone very well for my party in the polls since the parliamentary elections, so a political responsibility for abolishing Christmas can be taken on by my party and I simply cannot take on board. So although I as a private entrepreneur would not disagree very much with the Danish People's Party, there are some rules and principles that the Minister has also examined, which apply to the public sector, and which result in respect for these rules in the public sector that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144445	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144448	And that's too bad, of course. But in relation to Christmas, I feel like being called to say that we like Danish traditions in the Danish People's Party. We had the same discussion in connection with this cover ban, where it was also suggested that now we would ban Santa Claus and Christmas, and that we would never have Christmas again at home, perhaps not white Christmas because of this cover ban. I hope that it will soon be adopted, and I understand that Mr. Henrik Dahl is one of those who supports the proposal. It shows that Christmas will be saved and that it will also come next year, and that Santa will probably also visit many Danish homes next year, i.e. if the children have behaved well, well to feel, right? So you can arrange the legislative proposals in such a way that you can maintain the Danish traditions while at the same time striking down on the human and women's vision behind burka and niqab, which is also behind the Muslim scarf. And if you can find a model for that... I think you can... So Henrik Dahl thinks it's a viable road?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144549	But then I would go into the debate with the weight that my vote now has. It still has to be done. I can regret that sometimes more than my vote to adopt legislative proposals in this country. And then you had to see how far we could go. But the attitude I had to run my business has not changed, and I do not think that a division of the world into halal and haram and everything that is like underlying, and which we have also mentioned in this debate, is something that should be promoted in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144628	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we welcome Mrs Josephine Fock from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144650	Thank you. It is the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution on the prohibition of the use of distinctive religious symbols for pupils and teachers in the primary school that we are debating, and this is particularly the religious head covering that the Danish People's Party wants to ban in the primary school. I can say quite briefly that the alternative is against this resolution, and we are, of course, because we think that people should have the right to wear the clothes they want, completely without interference from the Folketing. So that's kind of the short speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144735	Thank you. There are no brief comments on the short speech, so we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144751	I can also be brief. We are in favour of equality, equality and equal rights, and we believe that people must dress as they please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144801	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, so we shall move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144820	There has been such a discussion about whether the scarf is women's oppressive. I think you have to say that is in certain contexts where it is used in a religious context and where the intention is that you should, like, hide your female identity and your female sexuality. But not all scarves work like that. One cannot say in advance that because someone comes with a scarf, it is women's oppressive. This is one of the problems here, namely that one simply has to go in and check from time to time whether a scarf is religiously conditioned or not religiously conditional if this proposal is to have meaning. But it has not, and therefore it cannot be documented in a way that ensures that it does not discriminate without having to find out what has weight and what does not have weight. Small crosses can be accepted, but not large crosses etc. and so on, which is why this is a hopeless proposal. As I said, we also do not want Parliament to legislate on how to be dressed as a school pupil or as a teacher. There must be limits to what we should be dealing with here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417144957	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments, so welcome to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145004	Thank you. The scarf is originally a women's oppressive symbol, which was used to hide the women and their sexuality away. I would like to maintain that wearing a scarf is a woman's oppressive thing. The fact that there are girls and women wearing it today for other reasons does not alter the fact that the scarf as a symbol is women's oppressive. There's no gender equality. I haven't met a man wearing a scarf yet. It's something that's commanded the women. And it hurts my heart too when I see a six-year-old girl wearing a scarf. That's where you help to sexualize her way too soon. The question is what to do about it. Should we legislate on this? Honestly, I am in doubt, but at this stage I tend to believe that there is no need for legislation. Nor am I in favour of banning all religious symbols in schools. I do not think there is any problem in wearing crosses or star of david there is not so much women's oppressive in it. Then there are some who say: What about burka and niqab? But it's about being able to see our fellow citizen's face, and that's why there's gonna be that masking ban. At this stage, however, I think it is important to insist that no legislation should be introduced at this stage. And then I also fear that if we legislate, we force some of the parents to send their girls to Muslim schools. We have seen some examples of how these schools are not doing very well. So we have sympathy for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, but we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145232	Thank you, sir. Khader. There are no brief comments, so we shall now move on to the rapporteur's line. A brief comment has just been made, so should we take it? The rapporteur agreed. Sir. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145247	I would like to ask the rapporteur something. If I am a person who would like to know something about, for example. Islam and therefore press Islaminfo.dk, then you can actually see that the scarf is referred to in connection with some reasonable rabid positions on the page. If a school student goes in and finds some information about Islam, he will go on an info page, where there are some striking positions that are very critical in relation to the scarf.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145316	I'm not sure I understood the question. The wearing of a scarf implies that you have rabid attitudes? If that is what is being asked, I would say that I do not agree. My mother wears a scarf, and I disagree with her on that choice, and I have told her that many times, but she has no rabid opinions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145339	What I mean is that, for example, if you do... If you go to this Islamic side, you'll see that it says that women are not entitled to respect when they walk around without a scarf, and so they themselves are responsible for being attacked. That's the kind of attitude. These people are using the scarf to come up with some rabid opinions, and then I wonder what the rapporteur is saying about it. It's an info page where you can find some information, and that's where they use the scarf as a central player to make some negative opinions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145411	I know the info website, and there are debates, and there are a lot of opinions there. But you don't have to have a scarf to have those rabid attitudes, you can also have a full beard to have them, and not just a scarf.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145430	It gave rise to another brief remark from Mrs Karen J. Klint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145436	Thank you to the rapporteur. After all, some of us have heard the story of the rapporteur's mother a few times, and this is a very good example of the fact that there are different opinions and different motives for it. So when we hear about a website that has exactly that very restrictive and bombastic attitude to scarves, is it not convenient here today to confirm that there are many other websites that are not nearly so negative and so bombastic and law-oriented and religiously oriented? Is it not true that there are many websites with many different interpretations?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145508	Yes, there are many websites that tell about Islam, and they are very nuanced, among others. khader.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145520	The questioner? Thank you. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution and he has a little longer speaking time, because you are not expected to be able to respond at least as quickly as the fastest in today's debate. Welcome to sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417145532	Thank you. The Danish People's Party is of the opinion that it should not be allowed to wear religious headgear if you are employed or a student in the primary school. In recent years there has been an increasing tendency for religious symbols and considerations to become very prominent in public spaces. In particular, the Danish People's Party finds it inappropriate for teachers and students to wear religious headgear, as teachers must be both objective and neutral. Moreover, it is the wish of the Danish People's Party to free little girls from social or religious pressure, which unfortunately exists in a number of Muslim environments. There we in the Danish People's Party believe that society must refrain when parents impose cultural or religious practices on their children, which can damage their schooling and also their integration into Danish society. We have a part of that at the moment, unfortunately. It is a problem for the individual and it is a major challenge for Danish society. In Denmark we are traditionally very sympathetic to different cultures and religions, but it is with increasing concern that the Danish People's Party is observing how some resident Muslims practice their culture. It often has a negative effect on their daily lives in Denmark. The Danish People's Party considers it essential that the primary school rests on Danish culture and folk government. It should not support or take special account of Muslim culture. Such considerations create and maintain parallel societies and discourage integration. The primary school's purpose clause states: The Folkeskole, in cooperation with the parents, must provide students with knowledge and skills that make them familiar with Danish culture and history. The purpose clause also states that the Folkeskole is to prepare pupils for participation, co-responsibility, rights and duties in a society of freedom and democracy. The school's activities must therefore be characterised by freedom of spirit, equality and democracy. The Danish People's Party is of the opinion that good integration involves a change of course in the primary school, and this proposal does away with the many special considerations that are being taken today and which make it impossible for a large part of primary school students to become familiar with Danish culture and history. It is not reasonable for primary school pupils to meet teachers who bear distinctive religious symbols; it may be a barrier to communication between teachers and pupils. The Danish People's Party is of the opinion that teachers should be neutral and objective. Therefore, we believe that it should be forbidden for both teachers and pupils to wear religious headgear and other distinctive religious symbols in school, and this is particularly important in our view when talking about children. Children cannot grasp what a distinctive political or religious symbol a scarf actually is. We also believe that small discreet religious symbols such as a cross, a star of David or a crescent moon, for example. in a neck or ear pendant, still away must be allowed, and then there will be room for you as parents to give your child a cross or a crescent moon. In this way one can still show away what religious affiliation one has, but the very distinctive religious symbols we believe should be kept out of primary school, and it is of course no secret that it is very much about the Muslim scarf in the case of the Danish People's Party. It is, of course, as I mentioned in some of the questions and comments I had to the various rapporteurs, if you cut right to the bone, that the Muslim scarf basically symbolises a view of in this case little girls, where you divide them up into who is clean and who is unclean, who is worthy and who is unworthy, and we think that we are far too violent to demand that girls and, for that matter, boys in the primary school should deal with that. We are of course aware in the Danish People's Party that Denmark is based on a Christian foundation. That is reflected among other things. in the Constitution and in the fact that the vast majority of the population use Christian rituals when major life events are to be marked. Therefore, there must, of course, continue to be the possibility for students and parents to stand by their Christian faith by, for example, discreetly wearing a cross. There will also be the possibility, in respect of freedom of religion, that non-Christian students and teachers may carry smaller religious symbols, but we believe that religion should not overshadow relations in primary school, and therefore the Danish People's Party proposes to remove the distinctive religious symbols. Now we are close to a ban on cover in public spaces in the case of burka and niqab. This Parliament intends to ban because we do not want to accept the view of women and people behind it. Burka and niqab are extremism in its purest form. The scarf is not as bad, but it is bad enough and it should be banned, and we can do that with this proposal. For this proposal is a general one, and this proposal can be justified in terms of the desire to promote and protect children's rights, gender equality and the desire that we in Denmark have a primary school based on Danish culture and based on Danish folk rule. We clearly sense in the Danish People's Party that there is no majority for this, but we are certainly working on it. And I believe and hope that at some point the other parties will realise that it is at some point I hope that a majority will then also arrive if you really think it is unacceptable that, in the extreme, you will be prepared to use legislation to put an end to what you find unacceptable. There, as legislators, we must use the tools that we have. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150122	Thank you. Mrs Anni Matthiesen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150125	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I would actually like to take the opportunity to dig a little more into the resolution here in order to find out exactly what the idea is. It says, of course, that you want a ban on the use of extremely religious dresses and so on. in primary school, but it will also have the consequences that it will be necessary, for example. so also to remove some of the traditions that you have in primary school. How does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party view this? I am thinking, of course, as some of the other rapporteurs mentioned, of Lucia's procession and so on. After all, some of what is a tradition and has been there for many years in the Danish primary school, and there you also have religious attire. There is no doubt about anything else, except that when they wear both the white dresses and, for that matter, the lights are worn by religion. Does the Danish People's Party find that it is also too extreme and thus that one would also be prepared to say that we also have to remove that part of the primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150248	We don't want to ban Lucia parade. We have had the same discussion with the ban on burka and niqab, the ban on cover. There we have had the same discussion and there has also been discussion about whether children could still dress up for Halloween and for when Santa Claus visits etc., some arguments that I basically do not understand, because I think they are kind of silly. However, it has been shown that solutions have been found to this in the draft law drafted by the Ministry of Justice. Of course, solutions can be found for this. This is a question of political will, whether the political will is there for one, among other things. forbids religious headgear and other distinctive religious symbols. It is also important to stress that this resolution is designed in such a way that it is of course religiously neutral. It hits everyone who, so to speak, falls under these paragraphs. No matter what faith they have or what belief they do not have, they will be affected by this proposal. Of course it will be the case that in those religions where you wear religious headgear you will be sure to be hit, you might say, but it is arranged in such a way that it hits widely and generally, but at the same time in such a way that if you wear small and discreet jewelry like cross or crescent, which is a Muslim symbol, then it will be okay. Then, of course, you can arrange it in such a way, just as you have done with regard to the cover ban, that to the special Danish traditions there are, you can then say that you take special account of and possibly make some exceptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150410	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. If you then try to reverse it and say that if this were to become law, would there not be discrimination on the basis of what the rapporteur says?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150429	In fact, I do not think there would be, because that applies to everyone. If this were to be turned into legislation, it would probably not even mention Islam or Judaism or Christianity in that legislation. You don't have to do that. In fact, I do not think that this is being done in the ban on cover that comes, which we know is primarily aimed at Burka and Niqab, but there we are basically not dealing with Islam and with the Muslim commands on how to dress. You don't do that in the bill, but you're about to hit the dial. So it is possible to achieve a political objective, but we are doing so in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150514	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party. No one else wishes to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150557	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party is the first rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417150705	Our education system is precisely a system. Everything is standardized and built up by modules and semesters and courses, and most people enjoy this system very much. They fit into the boxes, at least something like that. They get their papers or evidence of formal education, and the vast majority also get a job, and congratulations to them. But there are also many other young people who do not feel at home in our boxes and systems for many different reasons. Perhaps their school could not accommodate them and their particular challenges. Maybe there were problems in the family that made it hard to keep up with school. Maybe it was just hard to find the right way through the education system. There are many reasons why barely one in ten young people ends up outside our normal education system. We know, among other things. these young people as pupils in the country's production schools. Other of them finish their 9th or 10th class at VUC, while others get money from the job center and participate in activation such as: company practice or bridge building. Most of the offers are quite excellent, but they can be a jungle to find around in for the young. While both high school students and apprentices have a relatively simple and easy-to-understand framework for their education, these young people are greeted by a maze of various offers. Often one course does not start until the other ends; often the young people are met by a new adult, another contact person, every time they start something new; often the young people's income, their educational plan and the pedagogy they are met with. We're gonna change that now. With these four bills, we put together a number of different offers for this target group at one joint school, the preparatory basic education. As the name suggests, it is primarily a school that has to prepare young people for a youth education, but it is also a school that has to give young people the skills to get a good start in life. In the Social Democratic Party, we are very pleased with this legislation. We believe that both the parties of the Folketing and the government and its officials have worked seriously. And it is on the basis of this very broad political cooperation and after a preparatory work by a well-functioning group of experts that we can now deal first with these legislative proposals. I cannot possibly reach all corners of the preparatory initial training in this post, so I will choose to strike down a few individual areas that we are particularly pleased about. The municipalities are now obliged to seek out all young people under 25 who are not in education and offer them an educational plan. In particular, we believe that it will enable more young people employed to convert their unskilled work into an internship, for example. As an egu student. We are also very pleased that it will now be possible to combine the production schools' practical workshop-based pedagogy with the possibility of completing its 9th and 10th classes. Instead of young people having to choose either production school or VUC, it is now both- and for up to 2 years. I would also like to highlight the governance model set out in the legislative proposals. It was important for the Social Democratic Party that future schools should become state-owned, so that young people should not be squeezed into the annual municipal priorities. We think that an excellent balance has been struck between the right of the municipalities, on the one hand, to search young people towards these schools, combined with considerable local cofinancing and, on the other hand, the anchoring of schools in the state. Finally, I would like to highlight a minor but very important element of the draft legislation for the Social Democratic Party, namely the small amendment to the Housing Support Act, which means that parents are not drawn into housing support just because children are given a leisure job. It is an old-fashioned rule which has been based on children having responsibility for the household. It is a rule that hits hardest in families with small incomes, and it is a rule that almost encourages young people not to find a leisure job. I remember the rule from my own childhood, and I was reminded of it when Pia Louise Jensen from Brøndby Strand wrote to me some time ago. Her son got a job in Netto, and thus the rent went up, and of course it doesn't work out. Today she and her son are actually sitting up here in the gallery. Social democracy has been trying for a long time to change the rule, and that is now happening. It's very pleasing. All in all, this is an excellent day for the cooperative government of the people, for the young people who are included in the preparatory education and for the whole of society. That is why the Social Democrats can warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417151122	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. In the interests of safety, I would remind you that, if necessary, the rapporteurs have 10 minutes' speaking time. It is not a duty, it is a right. When we work together on proposals, there is that possibility. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417151137	I'll do everything I can to fill out the 10 minutes. It has actually been difficult to limit itself, because you will be so happy when we in the Danish Parliament can agree on such an important agreement about what we do for the vulnerable young people who are in Denmark. Almost 50,000 young people under the age of 25 do not have youth education and are not in education or employment. We all have some very good ambitions and intentions on behalf of this group of young people who have completed primary school but who are professionally and/or personally lacking the last touch in order to be able to take a youth education or a job. Unfortunately, however, we have not done well enough. If we look at this group of young people, we can see that many of them go from one offer to another and that they find it difficult to get settled and get a foothold at a school or in a job. It is also a group of young people who are very, very different. Let me give you some examples: there is both the autism sufferer on drugs that have been placed outside the home; there is the introvert Majken, whose parents drink and are on early retirement; there is the 12th century Josephine, who is the daughter of a professor but suffers from social phobia; there is the socially strong Morten, who is the child of a single parent and has it professionally difficult. When we look at this area and the challenges of ensuring the best possible course for young people, I would like to quote from the political agreement to tell you how complex this is and now I quote: 'Those young people who do not take the straight path need a special effort to unfold their potential. They don't always get that help today. Instead, they are faced with a complex system of preparatory offers, where the interface between state and municipality and between training and employment efforts is incalculable and where no one has the full and clear responsibility for the young. It is paradoxical that young people who most need our help and support are being met by an incoherent public sector. ▪ This group of vulnerable young people needs more simplicity. It's not rocket science. We have all had good intentions on behalf of young people, but we have come to create a bureaucratic and complex monster that does not fully give young people the support that allows them to develop personally, socially and professionally to become masters of their own lives. Based on the recommendations of the expert group on better ways of providing youth education, we have been negotiating for months on how to create a simpler path for young people who are not going the straight way. The expert group recommended that we bring together the preparatory training services in one new school. We have followed this and other recommendations. The school's name is preparatory initial training or fgu in the more abbreviated version. Young people must enter only one door forward. It creates security for the individual young person, who thus does not end up like a bouncing ball that jumps from one place to another. Fgu is aimed at young people under the age of 25 who are not ready to take a youth training course and contains three tracks: a general line, a production line and a business line. However, regardless of the line, the teaching is practical. We in the Danish People's Party have found it very important that the good experiences, among others. has from the production schools, continues in the new fgu. The production schools become the foundation stone of the future, and the practically oriented pedagogy, where you look at the individual rather than the mass, is crucial for the young people to get exactly the effort they need. The main task of the Fgu is to prepare young people for vocational training. We also need more people who go that way, but fgu must also provide training that can qualify for admission to hf and other upper secondary educations. Fgu is intended to create personal, social and professional development for the individual young people, but it is important to recognise that people are very different and also develop at different paces. Some of them will first need to develop on a personal and social level before they can benefit from the profession. During the course, the young person will be evaluated to ensure that the young person moves in the right direction and that he can continuously adjust the plan that he focuses on in relation to the individual's changing needs. We must have ambitions for all young people, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party are also very happy, together with the Danish Parliament's other parties, to be able to write a new political objective that all young people should have a youth education or a link with the labour market. Therefore, all 25-year-olds must have completed an education, education or employment. At national level, there must be a Fgu school in each municipality and about 90 schools at national level. The Fgu schools' pupils are not as mobile as other more resourceful young people. They won't come if the school isn't close. Therefore, proximity must be at the centre. Therefore, it is also important for us in the Danish People's Party to make it clear that there must also be room for smaller fgu schools around the country. Only because of economics to think in large mastodon schools will not be for the best of young people. In the work of creating the framework for the new fgu, we in the Danish People's Party have kept in mind that the vulnerable young people are very different. Time and again we have been confirmed that people are not the same, and that is why we have been concerned with flexibility throughout the negotiations. This is among other things. We have succeeded in ensuring that young people can be admitted to fgu, even though they have reached the age of 25, just as we have ensured that they can go on fgu over the two years that are otherwise a maximum. The doors must be kept open for young people who can profit from walking on the fucking road. As a general rule, vocational training is targeted. This is very good, and it is entirely in line with the wishes of the Danish People's Party. But we in the Danish People's Party have also advocated that it should be possible to create creative workshops or music at the country's fgu schools. Some young people are best lifted by being creative or by, for example, being creative. to express themselves through the music. The municipalities will be responsible for setting up a municipal youth initiative where the holistic action is in focus. Away with tunnel vision, away with silo thinking. The municipality will also have a responsibility to follow up on all young people until they are anchored in education or employment. Young people who need it are also guaranteed a continuous contact person. It is important that young people feel a firm hand in the back, pushing and motivating them in the right direction. Young people need people around those who believe in them and who recognise them. The kids shouldn't fall between two chairs. There must always be hand in hand with them until they are anchored in education or jobs. It is also important for us in the Danish People's Party to state that fgu should be the main road for this group of young people. It is not intended that municipalities should now establish a wide range of employment opportunities for the target group. The main road must be fucking. The new fucking guy will be a state institution, but with a municipal foundation. It comes, among other things. in terms of financing, 35% of which is financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB). of the money comes from a state taximeter and 65%. comes from the municipality's cash register. With the fucking state institution, we're in control of quality. It should not be the postal number that determines the path of young people. It also provides the municipalities with an economic incentive to create some very good fgu schools that lift the pupils professionally, socially and personally. However, municipalities are also given an incentive to ensure early action, and early action is really, really important. We should like to do everything we can to ensure that fgu schools are not actually needed, that students have actually been so promised throughout their childhood and their entire primary school that they actually have the opportunity to take an upper secondary education. For us in DF, it is important that you as a young person get the same thing in dollars and ear when you go to fgu, as if you are on educational aid, because when the level is the same, we ensure that at least it is not the money that decides whether a young person opts out in favour of education aid. In addition, it will continue to be possible to draw the student's benefit if the student has an illegal absence from school. With this agreement, we give teachers and managers a well-deserved skills boost and further training. If we strengthen teachers and managers, we will also strengthen the young people who have to go fuck themselves. I would also like to say that it sends out a really strong signal and calms down the new education and teachers and pupils, when today we can bring together a completely unanimous Parliament behind these four legislative proposals. Thank you all for the course of negotiations we have been through. We know there's a need for quiet out there. You out there are facing some very, very big changes, and from the Danish People's Party we acknowledge that the present and future process of change is challenging for all of you. But remember how important you are in young people's lives during this process of change. Teachers, managers, etc. Can't be without each and every one of you to make sure that Christoffer, Majken, Morten and Josefine get on the right path in their lives. And in the end, it is neither the legal text nor us politicians who make the difference in relation to whether young people are going into education. It is all the adults who are around the young who make the difference. It is the close relationships that make the difference. So I'd like to wish you a very good job out there. Then I would like to say at the end that we have been through a very long process in connection with this fgu-law, and there has been a need for patience, both here at Christiansborg, but also in the sector. We went on a break over the summer break in the Danish People's Party, at least at that time we were not ready to make an agreement, but I actually think that the break, and the fact that we have given ourselves the time it should take, has made us have a very good deal. We have taken the time to do this properly, and of course in the Danish People's Party we are very happy that we have had as many things as we have wanted to do in the legislation through. So all in all, it's a really nice day for the young people at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417152406	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. And then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, Left. After all, we are dealing with four legislative proposals, so there is double speaking time, and I can see that is being used well and well, but this is an important matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417152421	Thank you. I can then start by saying that I'm probably not going to spend the 10 minutes, so it may be that Marlene Harpsøe can have some of my minutes! But it is true that today is a wonderful day. In fact, I think that these four legislative proposals that we are dealing with now, and which you can see clearly, if you look up at the big screen here behind, are four legislative proposals that take up a lot of things, yes, I really think you can say that this is a reform. We are now creating the new preparatory initial training. It is the case that in my rapporteur's speech I will not go down in all the technical details contained in these four legislative proposals. There are very many technical details. And it is also the case that we have spent very, very many hours together in the negotiating room. We have asked a great many questions and received a great many answers, and that is why I think that all the parties in the Chamber should be happy and satisfied with what we have achieved today. I think that we have achieved our goal and have taken a huge and important step in order now to help this group of young people who, unfortunately, have been pushed around in the systems for many, many years. After all, it has become apparent that there are about 50,000 young people under the age of 25 who have neither an upper secondary education nor, for that matter, are in the process of working almost 50,000 young people who, it can be said, have been lost in the system. These are young people who, unfortunately, have all too often experienced that they have been thrown from offer to offer, and there are many of them who have also fallen between two chairs. It can be said that it is a little paradoxical that some of these young people, who may have the most difficulty, are in fact those who have been met with the largest and actually most imperceptible jungle of different educational provision. And that's what made the government start looking at this to see if there weren't things that could be done better. In fact, I would also like to take this opportunity today to thank the group of experts who did a good and thorough piece of work before we came up with a joint government proposal. Sometimes things go so fast here in Christiansborg, and you can quickly forget who actually laid the foundations for the agreement that we have today. I am very pleased that we can stand together and find a solution, and I am very pleased that back in October last year we agreed across the two blocs, but also that both the Alternative and Enhedslist have subsequently joined the agreement, and that we have thus actually ended up with an incredibly significant reform across all parties. Of course, there have been many and long negotiating meetings, and of course there have also been places where we have disagreed and where it has also been difficult for that matter to get the ends to meet. But here today, I would actually like to sign off on the fact that it has succeeded. I am glad that I am quite sincere that we have spent the time on what we have, because I believe that in the end we have also ended up with an even better quality of it and that the result has ultimately been very good here. I am glad that everyone has recognised the importance of bringing all young people along. This is not an agenda that some parties should be concerned with more than others, and with a broad agreement on the Fgu, I think we have shown that it is possible to work together across issues that are important. And I think this is an important issue, in other words, to safeguard the future of our young people. So thank you, fellow Members of Parliament, for backing it up. Now we are looking forward to the further progress, because it is the case that, although we are dealing first with these four legislative proposals today, we are working hard right here and now around the municipalities to find out where the new institutions are going to be. And some of the things that I might like to highlight here in my rapporteur's speech, which have also meant a great deal to me and to the Left, are, among other things, that we are getting good geographical coverage, but also that we are getting our hands on these mentoring schemes, which are also part of an agreement that we have concluded, that mentors are being employed around the new institutions, which give a consistent but good hand in the backs of young people who also need a special effort. Because it is a mixed bunch of people we are well aware of and it requires that there are many skilled employees around the municipalities who are now taking hold and making this happen. I look forward to seeing the map when the various institutions are in place, and I look forward to following developments in terms of creating, hopefully, some fantastic new institutions. And with that I would say that, of course, the Left will vote in favour of the four legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417153020	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, who quite kept her word about handing over some of her time to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417153033	With the agreement on preparatory initial training, which we are now to start implementing in four legislative proposals, a new training offer has been opened up, which I am sure will provide a better way of providing training and employment for thousands of young people. There is such a need for this. Former rapporteurs have already mentioned that we have almost 50,000 young people under the age of 25 who, on the one hand, do not have youth education and who are also not in education or employment. It has been a long process to arrive at the proposal for the establishment of preparatory initial training. I think, as others have already said, that there is reason to highlight the very good work done by the group of experts set up more than two years ago, which made its recommendations back in February last year. The recommendations were, in my view, a very good starting point for the subsequent political process. I would also like to say here that I am sorry that Enhedslisten has not had the opportunity to participate in the whole political process; that is exactly what I think there is really no reason to praise. Having said that, however, the Enhedslisten felt that it was a sensible agreement that had been reached, and that is why, in line with the alternative, we have subsequently agreed to the agreement. We have this because, on the whole, we believe that it is a sensible basis for the establishment of new training. It is very good that three different training tracks have been made, but also that at the same time a flexible structure of training has been created to take account of the diversity of the target group. We also think that it is very good in relation to the educational considerations that have been that there is a great deal to be done in the workshop pedagogics that we know so well from the production schools, and we expect that, in combination with general adult education, it can become a very good training offer that not only can equip young people professionally but can also equip young people personally and socially, not least the latter, I think it is also important that we place emphasis on. Having said that, it must also be said that it will not be a simple task to translate the good intention, the good framework for training into practice, in other words that it will work as intended in practice. There is a huge task in putting in place the concrete local framework for training. There is a great deal of work to be done in establishing the entire institutional structure in such a way that, on the one hand, it is close to young people and, on the other hand, it has sufficient professional sustainability, and there is a great deal of work to be done in getting the very specific content of the training right together. It is also, I think, worth mentioning here that it will be extremely important for young people who need special support also to receive the necessary support. I think it will be extremely important that the new contact system, which is one of the elements that we in the Enhedslist really appreciate, should actually also work, not least during the transition periods between primary and preparatory initial and preparatory initial and post-secondary education. There we know that there is a very considerable risk that young people will fall between two chairs, as it were, or in each case fall between two courses of study, and I think it is very important that this should work, just as it is very important that we not only have good and much like better guidance for young people in primary school, but that we also get good guidance and special educational support for those pupils who start preparatory training. If the new education is to be a success, it is also an incredibly important condition for us to keep the municipalities in mind that the preparatory initial training will be a main route for most young people who do not immediately embark on either vocational training or upper secondary education as a follow-up to primary education. We have here a few months ago experienced how the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment had placed the fgu at the very end in its description of the range of offers to be given to young people. Fortunately, I would say, and indeed, in full agreement across the board, it was quickly put into place. At the same time, however, I think it is very important for us to become even more aware of how important it is that the municipalities actually prioritise this and that they stress that it is the main road for young people, as the intention is now so clearly described in the training. In general, it is important that we ensure that the training gets the best possible start, and in this respect, I believe, it is very important that we provide the best possible basis for the boards, which will, of course, play a crucial role in the local establishment of institutions and schools. That is why I hope that in the legislative process we will be able to reach agreement within the board of directors on some adjustments, both in terms of composition and in terms of when the temporary boards will be replaced by the permanent boards. I think we have a very good dialogue in the circle of agreements, a good dialogue with the Minister, so I hope that, where there may be a need for adjustments in order to make the excellent basis for training an even better framework, through the good dialogue, we will achieve it, and I look forward to further cooperation on the establishment of training.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417153710	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. Next in line, sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417153719	Thank you. If it is true that haste is a load, the four legislative proposals we are discussing together now are marked by a very, very low level of cargo, because last year we spent no less than five months discussing both the broad lines and the small details of how the government had translated the Stefan Hermann Committee's recommendations into political practice. I was glad to hear Mr. Jakob Silverhøj refers to the Stefan Hermann Committee in commendable terms, and I would like to join in that praise. It is, in fact, the exemplary political process that has been set up to put some talented people into action, to evaluate the playout and to translate it into political practice. It was actually a really, really good move, and therefore I am also pleased that there is a great deal left of it, so to speak, after it has passed the political system. There are some who say that a camel is a horse drawn by a political committee, and that may be true, but here there is at least so much resemblance to the Stefan Hermann Committee that you will be quite happy about it. After all, the result has been the new preparatory initial training, which leaks out into the many offers we had in the past and has much, much more focus on preparing young people to either read on or enter the labour market than the offers we had before. These are four legislative proposals, each of which is quite comprehensive, and together, of course, they are very comprehensive, so although we have additional speaking time, I cannot go through them in every detail, as other rapporteurs have already done. But it's really a great day for Denmark that we have done this great reform if you want to allow the expression that it's a great day for Education Denmark, because often it's the case that we repair things that already exist, but here we do something that is completely new. And then it's a great day for that individual who doesn't fit into the many systems we have and needs a shoulder flap from a friendly hand and a clue in the right direction. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance, of course, warmly support all four legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417154005	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417154013	Thank you. In Denmark we are known for our education system. We have a great many skilled young people on their way through the education system. 'Cause kids do today. But for over 50,000 young people under the age of 25, there is a completely different reality, for they have pushed the pause button either consciously or unconsciously. They don't have youth education, and they're not in jobs. There may be many reasons for this. You have to respect the fact that some people actually need a break. Others, on the other hand, can be stuck even if they have the desire to move on if they, for example, are able to do so. do not meet the requirements for admission to eud, or if they cannot grasp the many winding paths that have so far been characteristic of preparatory education or if they have social or personal challenges. In the alternative, as other parties have said today, we want all young people to have a life of their own, a life of meaning, education and jobs, a life where it is possible to enter into positive social communities in the labour market and in society. We are therefore pleased to have been invited to this agreement on preparatory initial training, which is precisely an offer for this group of young people. We are pleased that we have been allowed to help in the future to make our mark on it. The Fgu is an ambitious idea of how we can help young people in the best possible way, both with knowledge, skills, clarification and motivation, help them to move a little further and, as I mentioned earlier, to join positive social communities. It brings self-esteem, and they need it in the long run. Therefore, the choice of education or jobs must be made simpler. On the one hand, the system is made simpler and, on the other hand, it must respond to the great diversity of the target group. It's a balance. We think this is one of the most important points in the work we're going to do with the very practical part of the implementation of these bills: that we remember who we're doing this for the young people. So in relation to what the previous rapporteur has just said before me, I would like to say that it is a great day for young people because we have made that agreement today. I really hope so with all my heart. Because there will undoubtedly be students who just seize the opportunity and who just fit as foot in the hoes of the fgu, and who just need the last push to get started. But there is also a group which may be able to feel that a new fugitive should have cut off its edges, and in the alternative we are aware that it must not be the most vulnerable young people, for example. Perhaps dyslexia or mental disability are left out of the deal. We have to keep an eye on them. As I said, we were included in the agreement, and we are pleased about that, but I would also like to make one other comment on the legislative proposals: the one about the Fgu-elev losing the right to be admitted to initial training in vocational training and going directly to the second part of the initial course. We believe that this may be a problem for some young people, and we hope that this will change in the future. After all, the pupils of the preparatory initial training are pupils who are characterised by the need for time and the clarification of the initial part of the programme. They also need to get started from the start and join together with the other pupils in vocational schools, so we hope, as I said, that this will be possible in the future and we will keep an eye on whether this will be a problem. In addition, I would like to mention, as previous rapporteurs have said, that we also hope that schools will be placed so that it makes good sense for young people. A study previously carried out by the Workers' Employment Council has shown that longer transport distances to upper secondary education mean that fewer young people receive an education. This is particularly true of young people from less resourceful homes. They're more sensitive to distance. So I hope and believe it will be good and we will keep an eye on it. As I said, the main aim of the fgu is to give young people a stepboard to move on from. All in all, we are here today with a very good offer to young people. We are happy to be there and we look forward to further cooperation. The alternative is in favour of the four legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417154539	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Then we move on to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417154550	We can do something with education in Denmark, and education can do something in our lives. Education gives us insight and vision, makes us strong and capable enough to seize the future and make it ours. Therefore, all young people in Denmark must have access to education. There is no doubt that the group of young people who are not just ready to start youth education after primary school is currently facing a jungle of opportunities and avenues that they can choose. The most vulnerable and complex group of young people are currently offering the most complex system in which virtually no one can find their way around. This is the background and political intention behind the agreement to set up and bring together the incredibly many efforts in a new preparatory initial training. In legislative terms, it is complex, as today's four legislative proposals and the many, many consultation answers and the inquiries that we are still receiving are also testimony to. However, the complex legal work is the prerequisite for the future of young people to meet one coherent effort in their municipality. There are plenty of concrete elements in the agreement that could be addressed in such a rapporteur's speech, but if I do not mention them here from the platform, it is not an indication that the Radical Left does not think they are important, because they are, and work still remains to be done to bring the laws into line. But the important thing for us today is to make it clear that the agreement on fucking us is about getting all young people with, giving all young people the right to a training plan and ensuring that the municipalities provide the young person with the necessary support and help to realise his educational plan or dream, if you like. Because I'm sure there isn't a single young person who has a dream of being supported for the rest of his life. I am sure that all young people share dreams about the future, about what to do, about what to do with their lives, and then there are just some who, for all kinds of reasons, cannot achieve without help the dream that needs help and support for their dream, and that is what this bill is all about. For me, education is value-political heart blood, for no matter where you come from, and no matter what background you have, you deserve to be able to enter the future with the hope and perhaps also with the help that your dream can be realized. The Radical Left supports the four legislative proposals, and although my rapporteur's speech was more value-political than concrete, we are of course happy to take part in further legislative work, and I wonder whether before we come to the second reading there will be a few amendments or two.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417154856	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417154902	Thank you. And thank you for the many good speeches. It's nice when everyone agrees that something is good; then it's gonna be such good speeches. While some of the rapporteurs spoke, I let my thoughts fly, and then I got such a sentence into my head: no one alone. I thought, "Where the hell is it that I've heard that sentence" "nothing alone"? And then I realized it was under my rust watch on the RUC. Then I thought I might not have to tell you about my rusture, but I'd like to tell you why I came to think of the phrase "nothing alone." It is in fact because one of the most important things for me in these four legislative proposals is that in future we will ensure that no young people are left alone. There have been too many young people who have been left to themselves in some municipal system, in which they have not been able to find their way around. There have been too many young people who have needed a loving hand, but who have not received the help they have needed, out locally. In fact, I believe that there will be fewer young people who feel alone if we get this implemented in a good way, because it is quite crucial. The first reason why I feel this way is that we are setting a hundred per cent target; that we will no longer accept in the Danish people's government, that there are some young people for whom we do not have an ambition. Either the young people have to take a youth training course, which is still the main road for the vast majority of young people, it has to be or is the goal if you do not take the path of young people getting into employment. And even if we get the young person into employment, we still have ambitions for the young person. It's important. When I think about it and the more I think about it, the more wrong it is actually that you have had an objective where you have said: there are some young people in Denmark for whom we have no ambition. So I think that's a really important step in this. Then the young people get better conditions: special support for those who need it; higher school allowance, so that young people who take a youth or preparatory education are about the same level in relation to the support they can get; dependent allowance; transport allowance; also food schemes, if we can make it work in the best way, what I hope we can. Because it is actually a very good goal for us to make sure that young people get a hot meal, especially the kind of young people who are often out in these schools. Well, then, sir. Mattias Tesfaye talked about these young people who have taken a leisure job and whose mother has subsequently been punished in the child's money, or whatever they say. It reminds me of the time I worked in Hammershus Bakery in Hereafter and worked hard out there and thought: How cool is it that I can earn my own money. And then one day my mother came and looked sad, for now she had gotten a huge tax spank, because of course she hadn't thought that it mattered how much I made at the bakery. She didn't have the opportunity to pay back that money, so they had to be pulled over the next year. I thought it was deeply unfair at the time, and I also think it is deeply unfair today. And that's why it's good that we get those rules changed. Then we will also ensure that the environment in which young people enter is not an excessively scholastic environment. I don't know who came up with that word scholastic. We were discussing this here the other day: whether it was something the Minister had come up with, if it was something, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye had come up with, or who actually invented that word of scholasticism. Now it exists, and with this speech I say that the environments that come must inherit some of the good environments that already exist in some of the educations today, where the teaching is based on workshop-based. And, of course, this must also be reflected in the new curricula for education and training. An important piece of work awaits us to be aware of. And when it doesn't have to be so scholastic, it's because some of the young people who come into these programmes think I'm doing a really good job of it being a slightly different learning environment. Then it's really important that we give the young people a hand, that is to say, the fact that they're not alone. There are already some municipalities which have a municipal youth service which, after the 9th grade, grabs young people who need to grab them and guide them in the right direction. It is actually amazing that it has taken the Folketing so many years to agree that it should actually be everywhere. This is one of the things I have the greatest hopes for, and when I'm around the municipalities, I say: This is your most important task in 2018, because if you make this happen, there will be a lot of young people who are no longer alone. And in the municipal youth service there is the possibility of mentoring both municipal mentoring schemes, but also mentoring schemes, which are in cooperation with some of those volunteers who already have fire souls today. There is the fact that the young person should not get lost because there is one entrance. In fact, in many other respects, this could be imitated when we talk about municipal autonomy, in other words, there is one entry point for citizens. Then there is the matter of guidance: that there must still be really good guidance for young people, who should not only lead somewhere but who are so independent. I'm glad we got in. I have no idea how much time I have left, but I will be brief. I think I have more time than usual here; I could hear that from the others who spoke. In addition, it is important for young people that it is not as far as they are concerned, over to these courses. I remember that the Minister was, I think, at the time of the presentation of the agreement, or it was in fact when the government's proposal was presented that it should be in cycling distance. I thought that was a very good ambition, and I also thought it was very good that we agreed that, in connection with the bicycle distance, the starting point was, of course, that there should be an institution or school in each municipality, otherwise it could quickly stay at motorcycle distance. So I am glad where they landed, because, as Mrs Marlene Harpsøe says, if we want to get young people into these educations, it should not be too far for them. Then it's also important that we, together in the Folketing, show that we're not supposed to save money on this offer. We have said, as we have said, that now we are giving these schools and institutions some rest. We give them a minimum of economics, and with this settlement they can be sure that they will have some time to work their way, because we actually want these young people and want these schools and institutions. Finally, I hope that with this form, which we discussed very much, it should be self-contained, or should it be municipal? What I think we will all do, whether you are a council member or a member of parliament, or whether you are from the Left or the SF, or where you are from is that we get some really good schools and institutions that can take care of our young people, and that that particular commitment that has existed at the educational institutions today, where the local environment is involved in the training, where the municipalities continue to engage in the training, is allowed to survive with the new institutions and schools that we need to have. And I'm sure we can achieve that. There are a lot of discussions waiting. But for once, the basis of political debate is really, really, really in order. And I think that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe is right that it also has something to do with us actually taking time for this agreement and respecting each other as we discussed it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417155603	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are, in fact, double speaking time, because there are four legislative proposals, but I noted that Mr. Jacob Mark's inner clock must work well, for after about five minutes Mr. Jacob Mark, he was done, so it must be something just lying on his spine. Here you go to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417155624	Thank you very much. With the agreement on preparatory initial training, we are creating a completely new education which replaces the current preparatory services for young people in the target group, and we make it clear that we have ambitions on behalf of all young people not only those who have already found their way, but each young person must become masters of his own house and be able to take up education and achieve lasting employment. Every five young people, seven years after the end of the primary school, have not completed an upper secondary education or acquired vocational qualifications. In the past there have been too many offers to young people, and it has been too easy to get lost in the education system and in incalculable efforts, and I understand that has been difficult for young people to find their way around. We are now changing that with the agreement here, where we bring together some of the preparatory training in one preparatory initial training. At the same time, we are asking the municipalities to set up a cross-cutting municipal youth effort in which young people are at the centre. For us it has, among other things. was important that each young person now only gets one contact person, so you only have one strong personal relationship instead of being thrown around between several people in the system. With the new preparatory initial training, we emphasise that all young people have resources. We do not offer as many different offers as before, but strengthen the opportunity for young people by providing them with good preparatory initial training to help more young people take control of their own lives, either through training or through permanent links with the labour market. Today, we are working together on the four legislative proposals, which together constitute the legal basis for the preparatory initial training, and the Conservative People's Party can support all four legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417155824	Thank you to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Then we've reached the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417155832	I'm pretty much always happy to go to work. There are good days, and there are days when the headwind is a little extra strife, but when I help to move something and create better conditions for more Danes, I am satisfied. On October 13th last year was a particularly good day in the office, because after weeks, yes, months of negotiations in both wind and headwind, I, along with a broad circle of parliamentary parties, could walk out the door at Frederiksholm's Channel with real good news. In fact, on 13 October, we arrived at an agreement on a reform in the preparatory area, a reform which will affect thousands of young people in Denmark. That reform is needed. As Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen has put it several times, there has been a collective failure in education. A group of young people have been hit by a concrete ceiling of incalculable offers and interventions. We have a duty to change that, and we do so now after a thorough preparatory work. In February 2017, the Expert Group on Better Roads to Youth Education submitted its recommendations to the Government. The government came up with its proposal for reform on 10 May last year, and on 13 October, after a large number of negotiating meetings, we made the political agreement. I would like to thank all parties in the Folketing, because it is strong that we are all behind the agreement on such an important and important reform agreement. The four legislative proposals that we have dealt with at first reading today are a coinage of this. Why is it so important now? It is because it puts a big, thick line on the fact that all young people have resources, and we believe in all young people, all young people must have a chance, and education and jobs are among the most important factors for getting a good life where you can support yourself. Young people have a responsibility for their own future and, as a society, we have a responsibility to show a clear way for young people who need a boost and a helping hand to take that responsibility on their own. The preparatory offers are for young people, and they must be valuable to them first and foremost and bring them closer to standing on their own feet and taking responsibility for their own lives. It has been the case that too many young people have lost their way in the system, too many young people have been educational nomads without a clear goal to move forward. So far we have had a jungle of preparatory offers, and it has been difficult to find around in, including for young people. We are now changing that for the sake of young people. With agreement on better paths to education and jobs, we emphasise that we have ambitions for each young person. We have cleared up the jungle of preparatory offers, and we have agreed on a framework that together will help more young people to take control of their own lives, either through education or permanent links with the labour market. As I said, we are dealing with four legislative proposals today, and they form the basis of the rather comprehensive reform that we are facing. The aim of the four legislative proposals is to establish a new preparatory educational offer for young people under the age of 25, and this is what we call the preparatory initial training or gov ernment; to set up associated educational institutions; to ensure a strengthened municipal youth effort for young people in the target group; and to implement necessary legislative changes. It is a complex and comprehensive piece of material that is behind the four legislative proposals, all in order to make the preparatory area more transparent and simple for young people and the staff responsible for guiding, teaching and helping young people. I would venture to claim that this reform of the preparatory education area is more complex than any of the agreements we have made in previous years in the field of education. Since 2013, we have made a reform of primary education, a reform of vocational training and a reform of upper secondary education, and now the journey has come to the preparatory area where we bind all youth education and interventions for young people together. We are doing an entirely new training to replace the current preparatory services for young people in the target group; we are creating new state institutions, self-serving institutions on the backs of existing production schools and parts of the VUC; we are asking the municipalities to set up a cross-cutting municipal youth effort with the young person in the centre; and we are giving the municipalities significant financial responsibility for the fgu, because it will pay for the municipalities to make a proper effort so that the young people get ready for youth education and the labour market. Many young people today have long and interrupted training courses without sufficient progression. This provides a weak starting point for a stable link with the labour market, and many young people do not receive training until late or never. Every five young people, seven years after graduation of the primary school, have not completed a youth education or acquired vocational competence, and a united Parliament will do away with that, because now is the time to increase our ambitions for all young people. That is why, as part of the agreement, we have also agreed on a number of new educational policy objectives which replace the 95-percent objective, which expired in 2016. We agree on a common ambition that all young people should have a youth education or a link with the labour market. All young people have a future and it must be clear to young people what opportunities they have and what doors they can open to move forward. This means that by 2030 at least 90% must be achieved. of the 25-year-olds have completed a youth education course. This means that by 2030, the proportion of young people up to 25 years of age who are not linked to education or the labour market must be halved. We must now start implementing a reform that we can be proud of. It will affect the lives of a great many young people, and I look forward to following the process of unfolding it throughout the country. I would like to thank you for the good discussions we have had in the Chamber today, and I look forward to any questions you may have during the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417160416	With that, we thank the Minister for Education. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417160439	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 19 April 2018. Now we need a justification for the question, and that is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417160508	In the Danish People's Party, we are very concerned that our elderly are well. They must have a safe and dignified old age. Time and again, in the Danish People's Party, we have been given more funding to ensure better care for the elderly. But there is something crucial that threatens. Three out of four municipalities currently lack qualified staff for the care of the elderly. There is a lack of social and health workers, social and health assistants and nurses. In Elsinore, where I'm from, 62 sets of warm hands are missing right now. Oh, my God! According to FOA figures, up to 40,000 more hot hands are missing in the year 2026. 40,000 warm hands! The number of elderly people doubles up towards the year 2040 and so more people need help, for example. care. At the same time, the average age of current employees in the care of the elderly is very high and many are close to retirement. In addition, there are still far too few applicants for a sosu education. All this is a bomb during our care for the elderly, that is, there are so many hands missing to help those people who need care most when they can no longer take care of themselves. As I said, older people deserve a safe and dignified old age, and action must therefore be taken to ensure more warm hands for our elderly care. This is why we in the Danish People's Party have chosen to call the Minister for Education and the Minister for the Elderly as well as the parties of the Danish Parliament for this inquiry debate. We in the Danish People's Party will start by thanking the ministers, but also the parties of the Danish Parliament for coming forward here today, so that we can take the very, very important debate on how to reverse developments, and we look forward very much to the response of the ministers and the subsequent debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417160720	We thank the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. We need an answer and we have two ministers on the table, and the first one we need to hear is the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417160736	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate on the challenges of recruiting staff in the social and health sector in the municipalities. I have looked forward to today's debate because, as Minister for the Elderly, it is important for me that we regularly discuss how to ensure that both today and in the future there will be sufficient staff in the social and health sectors to take care of our elderly fellow citizens. Unfortunately, it is well known that municipalities are facing challenges in recruiting staff in the field of social and health care today and that the challenges will be greater in the future. These are challenges that I take very seriously. Before I go down more on the challenges, I would like to appreciate the many amazing employees that we have in the care of the elderly. These are people who make a great effort every day to create a daily life of presence, responsibility and respect for our older citizens. I have said this before, but a good message is worth repeating, and in my view the employees are our gold. That's how I feel today, and that's how I've felt in the many years I've been in charge of care for the elderly. Therefore, it is also important for me that we in here from Christiansborg create the right framework for a good working environment in the care of the elderly, so it is attractive to train and work in the area. However, we must recognise that there are challenges in attracting staff in the care of the elderly in the municipalities. KL and FOA published a joint report at the beginning of January this year which maps the recruitment challenges in social and health care in the municipalities. The report supports the figures we have seen in the past and shows that there is a shortage of sosu assistants in the care of the elderly, and the report points out that the problem is getting bigger in the future. The report also looks at the development over time of the number of students on the sosu courses as well as the level of employment and the absence of sickness for the employees. The report shows that there are many part-time employees and that, unfortunately, sick leave is too high and significantly higher than for the total group of municipal employees. I'm gonna get back to the sick leave thing. The Ministry of Employment also carries out a continuous monitoring of the recruitment situation in the care of the elderly, and they state that in the second half of 2017 there is a large shortage of sosu assistants and nurses, while there are no recruitment challenges compared to the sosu helpers. This is consistent with the fact that the Danish Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment published an analysis in June 2017 showing that sosu assistant is one of the subjects where it is hardest to recruit new employees. As I also said in this Chamber in January in reply to the paragraph 20 question from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, I believe that, on the basis of the figures from the Ministry of Employment and the FOA and KL, we have a solid basis of knowledge to discuss. Having said that, it does not mean that we should not become wiser. The Minister of Education and I will therefore take the initiative to set up a mapping of municipalities and regions' problems in recruiting skilled workers in the area of the elderly. I believe that recruitment challenges need to be addressed with a number of different approaches, and in many areas we are already well underway. In order to contribute to a better working environment, the government has prioritized 500 million in this year's financial agreement with the Danish People's Party. kr. annual to a better manning in the care of the elderly. The funds must include: ensure better staffing in the care of the elderly and, as far as possible, allow employees already working in the care of the elderly to adjust their working time upwards. Under the Financial Act of the year, 70 million were also set aside. kr. from 2018 to 2021 to strengthen municipalities' efforts to reduce absenteeism. The money is put into effect through a pool, and the municipalities are seeking funding for strategies to reduce absenteeism. The work will ensure that we can gather knowledge about concrete actions that work and later disseminate this knowledge to the whole area. The pool has been published in March and the municipalities can apply until 31 May this year for funds to reduce sick leave in the care of the elderly. For me sick leave is one of the biggest challenges in the care of the elderly, among others. because the cost of temporary workers is increasing and because the other employees have to run stronger. I am therefore looking forward to following the work of the municipalities in reducing sick leave. With the boost given to the elderly, we want to support a positive development with more time and profit for the benefit of employees and older citizens. I am proud to be part of a government which, with the latest finance laws, has given priority to the elderly area together with the Danish People's Party. But an additional economy and a systematic effort to reduce sick leave does not only do it, because it is also extremely important that we, as politicians, help to talk up the care of the elderly and all the employees. We need to raise awareness about the important task that employees solve every day in the care of the elderly, because employees in the care of the elderly are extremely skilled. This is among other things. Therefore, with the National Dementia Action Plan, we have introduced the Dementia Award of the Year. The award celebrates and appreciates the many amazing employees who work hard every day to make a difference. Last year's Dementia Prize went to Pia Johnsen Nielsen from the Care Centre Klarahus in Copenhagen because she helps make life a little easier for people with dementia and their close every day. In May, we will be awarding the Dementia Prize for 2018, and I look forward to paying tribute once again to one of the many employees who make a big difference to our older fellow citizens every day. As I said, the Minister of Education and I will take the initiative to set up a mapping of municipalities and regions' problems in recruiting skilled workers in the area of the elderly. On the basis of a survey, we will invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss the issue, so that older citizens are guaranteed a dignified and safe life with the help and support they each need. During these collective bargaining times, we should also remember that in Denmark there is a tradition that wage and working conditions are regulated by the social partners through collective agreements, and we must, of course, respect this by the government and the Folketing. I have also noted that KL has proposed a recruitment pool of half a billion kroner for sosu employees and nurses to make it easier to recruit and retain employees. I shall now pass on the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417161446	Thank you to the Minister for the Elderly. Then it is precisely true that it is the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417161454	Thank you and, above all, thank you to the authors for highlighting a very important issue: how to ensure the welfare of the weakest and the elderly in our society in the future. Here, skilled so-su assistants and so-su helpers play a very important role, and as Minister of Education I will concentrate here on how we can ensure enough well-educated so-su employees to carry out the work of close welfare in the future. Social and health education is important for society. They contribute to a very important task in the health, care and care of the elderly. With effect from 1 January 2017, we have established two independent training programmes for sosu-helper and sosu-assistant respectively. This breakdown matches developments in the health sector with accelerated patient processes in hospitals and changes in the distribution of tasks between hospitals and municipalities. Unfortunately, it is still too early to evaluate the two courses, but the Ministry and the social partners are following developments closely to ensure that the courses meet expectations. It is extremely important that our education is of high quality. It was therefore a very important objective of the reform of vocational training to raise the quality of education and training. Particularly in the field of sosu, we can see the results of the high ambitions. Before the reform, only 58 per cent were assessed. of teachers in the main area of care, health and pedagogy that more than half of the pupils had the necessary academic qualifications. Following the reform, this figure has risen to 81 per cent. by the teachers. This is a significant development and it is a positive development. An internship is an absolute must if you are to have an exciting training course and a good start to working life. In August 2016, the Government concluded a two-year agreement with KL, Danske Regioner, FOA and LO, which obliges employers to provide a minimum of 4,700 internships for the sosu assistant students and 2,200 internships for the sosu helpers students per year. Last year, the municipalities and regions reached the minimum level of the so-su assistant training. In sosu-helper training, it doesn't look very good. Here the student approach did not reach the minimum level of internships. In the spring of 2018, we will be negotiating a new agreement on the number of internships in the area, which will reflect the demand for labour. The negotiations are currently awaiting the conclusion of a new agreement. We have seen a decline in the approach to the sosu programmes. One of the reasons for this is the stricter admission requirements, but it may also be due to the fact that the second part of the basic course became mandatory for virtually all pupils. This is probably also about private finances for a large group of students. There are many mature students who train in the sosu area. Some of these students may have already formed a family, and it will have an impact on them whether they are going to SU in relation to the basis they have. That is why I am very pleased that some municipalities have begun to recruit the students from the beginning of the basic programme, and I hope that more municipalities will use the opportunity in their recruitment of pupils. But we also need to bring the very young students. It must be attractive for them to apply to training places, and we must be better able to tell young people that a sosu education is a good route to both internship and job. It would be quite obvious to turn sosu training into benefit courses. I have therefore encouraged KL and Danske Regioner to contact the Ministry so that we can discuss the possibility of designating the programmes for benefit programmes either in 2018 or in 2019. I expect KL and Danske Regions to return after the conclusion of the ongoing collective bargaining. The search curve is also broken, so it is now 19.4 per cent. of pupils in the 9th and 10th classes seeking vocational training. But that's not good enough. It takes a major change in culture to challenge young people in their educational choices, so that they go against vocational training and not per year. automatic chooses a secondary education. The government, together with the contracting circle, has already initiated adjustments to the reform and new initiatives. Some initiatives have already shown good tactics, and we have the results from the others to the benefit of us. For example, I have. an agreement was reached with DF on a new practical dimension of the training preparation assessment, and this is a very important step in the right direction. In fact, this will raise the awareness of pupils' practical knowledge, also in relation to the so-called so-called training programmes. Finally, together with the social partners, we have concluded a tripartite agreement to develop specially targeted AMU processes. They must, on the one hand, give a professional boost to unskilled people in the social field so that they can eventually become sosu-helpers and, on the other hand, give experienced sosu-helpers a professional boost in order to become sosu-assists. There is no doubt that the sosu area is important. That is why we in the government also have a targeted focus on it. Good and attractive education is for the benefit of all, both the citizens and the students who attend the courses. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417162003	Thank you to the Minister for Education. Then we start with the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417162015	The Finance Act guarantees historically a lot of money for the elderly, one of the headlines said when we in the Danish People's Party signed a Finance Act for 2018 with the government. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative They leave, among other things. for better staffing at nursing homes, a more free choice so that older people can choose food arrangements for themselves, and more focus on ensuring a dignified death, for the elderly deserve a dignified old age. However, as I also mentioned in my explanatory statement, we lack hands in this area. According to a study from FOA and KL, we will be missing up to 40,000 social and health workers in 2026 • 40,000! It is a bomb during our care for the elderly, and we simply have to do a lot about it. We believe, first and foremost in the Danish People's Party, that we should talk the subject up. It is an incredibly important subject to be able to take care of those people who most need help in a situation where they do not have the opportunity to do their own thing. We have to help those people who can't. But why is it that there is so much shortage of social and health workers? I mean, that's one way of doing that. be because of the working environment. We hear, among other things. on a high level of sickness absenteeism, as the Minister for the Elderly also mentioned. We hear about employees running around making their own free time available for daily work. We hear about employees who have routes, they have to go out on • i.e. they have to drive from one home to another to help older people but where these routes are in less time. That means that when you're driving from Mr. Knox... Hansen at 1:00 a.m. So you're going to be with Mrs. Nielsen at 2:00 p.m. 13.50. That doesn't make sense. We must ensure a better working environment, and we must ensure better working conditions for employees. One of the things we also hear as being a problem is that as a sosu helper and as a sosu assistant you are deprived of your professional skills. Some time ago I had a visit from some so-su assistants and so-su helpers, and they said quite clearly that this is not good at all because they are being deprived of their professional skills. They said: We don't want to be the ones who just come and have to lubricate some liver paddles; that's not just what we're trained for; we're also trained to care for the elderly. I think that is very important to bear in mind, otherwise professional pride will disappear. It is precisely that professional pride that makes you want to stay in the profession you are in. What we also see is that there are practical problems. We see, for example, that there are municipalities that really want to hire social and health assistant students, but they just can't get to finish that student time because they lack the mandatory 3 months in a somatic department. be a lung medicine ward in a hospital. And because the regions do not have the same need to get pupils in, they say no, and then you have a programme where you cannot complete the training as a social and health assistant. It's a very complex area, and it's not that simple. More initiatives are needed and problems need to be identified. This is among other things. in relation to how we ensure that more people take a sosu education. I have a proposal for adoption which I will be reading shortly. After all, I and the Danish People's Party have long been in demand for us to draw up a survey of what is actually the problems out there. I can then hear that today the Minister for the Elderly has succeeded in saying that now, among other things, is coming. the mapping. This is very good and I am quite sure that it is because we have gathered a majority here in the Danish Parliament behind a proposal for adoption which I will now read on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there are current recruitment challenges for social and health workers in the municipalities. KL and FOA's December 2017 report show that 73 per cent of the population in the EU live in the EU. of the municipalities report a shortage or high shortage of labour in the area of the elderly, and 49 per cent. reports a shortage or a high shortage of health workers. The Danish Parliament argues that there is a lack of concrete government initiatives and expects the government to undertake a mapping of municipalities and regions' problems in recruiting qualified staff, including an assessment of how social and health education can recruit more pupils. The Folketing also expects the government to convene the parties of the Folketing to discuss how we reverse developments, so that older citizens are guaranteed a dignified and safe life with the help and support they each need. • V 50).
ParlaMint-DK_20180417162633	Thank you. This proposal is then included in the further debate. There is one brief comment, at least for the time being. It is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Dansk Folkeparti, no, sorry, SF, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417162649	I'll take the last one. Thank you for that and also thank the rapporteur for calling this debate. I think this is a very good initiative. I noted that the rapporteur mentioned the lack of training in somatics as a reason why it may be difficult to get enough social and health assistants, and wonders whether the rapporteur also thinks that perhaps we really lack the Minister for Health. Because the somatics and psychiatry, which have also given rise to major problems in terms of having enough internships for social and health assistants, have been a persistent problem throughout the time of the training. However, does the rapporteur agree that both somatics and psychiatry are important areas of internship for a social and health assistant if we are to think about the close and coherent health care system, and does the rapporteur also think that it might be appropriate to involve the Minister for Health in this further discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417162747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417162748	Well, I can agree entirely with Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Both the psychiatric area and the somatics are really, really important in ensuring that we get some well-educated social and health assistants. It is therefore also relevant that the Minister for Health should be involved in the work and mapping that must be done. And, of course, I also expect this to be something the government will ensure. We also write in our proposal for adoption that it is the government that has to do this mapping, so I expect the relevant ministers to be involved, and the Minister for Health is also relevant in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417162825	Thank you to Mrs Marlene Harpsøe. Then we have reached Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417162834	Thank you. Thank you to the ministers for their statements, and indeed very much thank you to the Danish People's Party for having called the question here today. In the Social Democratic Party, as in the Danish People's Party, we have long been concerned about the trend we see very, very clear, where municipalities are getting harder and harder to recruit social and health workers. The study from KL and FOA has already been referred to several times from today's platform • shows that 73 per cent. of the municipalities have problems recruiting trained staff, and at the same time the search for the sosu courses has declined massively recently. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen efforts to ensure recruitment and, moreover, to strengthen efforts to ensure the maintenance of social and health workers in the municipalities, to a large extent in municipal care for the elderly, where the majority of employees are sosu helpers and sosu assistants. From our point of view, there are two fundamental challenges that we need to address if we are to ensure that there are enough trained staff and good and worthy care for the elderly. First of all, we must ensure that it is attractive to work in municipal care for the elderly, yes, that is to say, in fact, in the public sector as a whole. Many who work in the care of the elderly are happy with their work; they get up every day, go to work and make a huge difference to other people. They like their jobs and do it proudly. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case for everyone. There are too many who experience another reality where there is a strong and also too strong race. They feel pressured and the figures speak their own sad language; one in three employees find that the elderly do not receive dignified care and care; six out of ten workers in nursing homes find that the standards have deteriorated. Most recently, we have seen studies showing that there are municipalities where there is only one night shift for 24 nursing home residents. Indeed, studies show that four out of ten sosu employees are seriously considering quitting their jobs because of the circumstances. We are pleased that the elderly in the country's nursing home and in the care of the elderly, thanks to the Danish People's Party, can look forward to more staff in the future as a result of the 500 million increase. kr. This year's Finance Act for a proposal that we have also tabled ourselves, and that will not make it any worse. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for carrying it to the negotiating table and carrying it through with the government. But we have to say at the same time that that money is merely clapping holes. Since the general election in 2015, when Lars Løkke Rasmussen became Prime Minister, according to figures from the Ministry of Finance, 2,300 fewer people have taken care of the elderly. Meanwhile, the number of elderly people has increased, and that is why we also say very clearly on the part of the Social Democratic Party that when we grow older, the money must keep up. Public budgets must follow what is termed the demographic trait, so that we can ensure welfare. There are many sosu assistants who further train for nurses and thus train themselves out of their profession. We even have well-established credit courses for this purpose. And further training opportunities are a good thing, but we must also ensure that there are good career paths and good opportunities for upgrading and continuing training, so that, as a social worker, we do not have to train ourselves out of the profession if we want to improve our skills and have more professional responsibility. The municipalities have a great responsibility here. The same is true when we talk about the working hours of sosu employees. Very many sosu employees work part-time, not because they do not want to work full-time, but because they cannot be allowed to do so. There is therefore also great potential in terms of getting more sosu hours if more sosu employees go from part-time to full-time. We have municipal autonomy in Denmark, which is why it is up to the municipalities themselves to decide whether the posts they open up should be full-time or part-time jobs and how small the part-time jobs should be. However, we believe that Christiansborg's side can make a great appeal to the municipalities to look at this possibility and possibly to be inspired by the City of Copenhagen, where people have tried to make their own decisions about their weekly working hours. It was the whole part that is about making it attractive to work within the subject. Secondly, we need to ensure that there are more young people who want to take training as a sosu helper or sosu assistant. Unfortunately, we are seeing a massive decline in the search for sosu training. I don't have the latest figures, but they're violent numbers I've seen back from February. Of course, when you choose your education, you also look at what working conditions you will then have to work under, and therefore a large part of the job here is also that we aim to create better working conditions in the care of the elderly, so that it becomes more attractive to work there. But it is also a question of the quality of sosu education. We do not make it more attractive to take sosu training by doing what the government is doing, namely saving on vocational training and thus at the sosu schools. From 2016 to 2021, sosu school managers will find savings of around 140 million. kr. It means very concretely that I have discussed with sosu-school leaders that you have to fire teachers. This leads to less teaching time and thus to lower education. It goes without saying that it is not exactly the right medicine to give if you want more young people to apply, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party will drop the savings in vocational schools, including sosu schools. Then there are a lot of other things to do in relation to the bridge building between the folkeskole, the fgu and a whole lot of other things that the ministers also mentioned. This applies both to the Sosu schools and to the other vocational training programmes, and here I am not an expert, but have great faith that when we get the statement and study we get from the government, there will also be a look at it. So there are many places to go to ensure better recruitment and better retention of social and health workers. It is just a question of political will, which is why it was good that the Danish People's Party called for the question here, and it was good that we got a broad majority behind a proposal for adoption which requires the government to act now. We've been talking about this for a long time and on several occasions. So I look forward very much to the political discussions that the government says they will convene, since the Folketing has thought it was a good idea. And I understand from the Minister for the Elderly that these discussions can come soon because we actually already have much of the knowledge that needs to be done. That's what the minister said. That just means that we can get started rolling up our sleeves, rather sooner than later, and I will look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163457	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163501	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I just need to hear quite specifically how many percent of the financial framework for care for the elderly will be raised if there is to be a social democratic government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163516	After all, we have said very clearly that overall growth in public budgets must follow demography, that is, population growth with more elderly people and more care-intensive people, and that is as concrete as we have been.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163533	It is not, after all, an extension of the economic framework; it is simply an update of the economic framework. So I can conclude that there will not be an extension of the economic framework, there will be an update of the economic framework if there is to be a social democratic government.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163549	I think that is simply language gymnastics which I am unable to understand. In other words, when you look at the economic growth, as the current government has said they think there should be, at 0.3 per cent, and you look at what the Ministry of Finance estimates it takes for growth in public budgets to meet the demographic trend, we are of course 0.6-0.7. There is somewhere between a whole and a half billion, unlike there a year. Whether it's an update or whatever it is, sir. Henrik Dahl calls it, I shouldn't be able to say, but at least it's money that can be felt, both at the beginning and at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163621	Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163625	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. I have a follow-up question with regard to what the rapporteur said in his speech, namely that 86 per cent. Working part-time. The rapporteur then said that they cannot get up full-time or several hours, and I would really just like the rapporteur to elaborate on that. What is the reason why they cannot be allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163649	Well, that's something I know about FOA departments all over the country traveling on behalf of their members in relation to the municipalities. I myself am constantly appalled when I hear how few hours people are gradually appointed in some municipalities. I think the worst example I've come across was when I was in Esbjerg to meet with the FOA department where they had a specific case with a member who could be hired 7 hours a week, and then he could come with his hat in his hand and ask for extra hours, so it was something with a salary that you could live on and pay your rent. It is a great paradox, it can be said, that on the one hand the municipalities find it difficult to recruit trained employees, and that some of the trained employees they actually have their hands on and would like to make a lot of effort to maintain, then they are employed so few hours a week. I understand that 7 hours is really hard, but in general I am sure that if we had a statistic about this, we would see that part-time jobs are not only increasing, but they are also becoming more and more part-time in relation to hours. This is a major problem for the individual, but it also means that there is potential for the municipalities here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163756	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163758	The reason I'm asking is because I don't have the facts about it myself. What is the reason for having trained staff in the municipalities, and they have been employed part-time, but you are not using the ones you have to increase the number of hours, which also means that you could reduce some of the deficiency? So the question is whether you will not take several hours yourself or whether it is because the municipalities will not give more hours or where is the paradox? I am therefore looking forward to it being included in the survey, so that we can dig a spade stick deeper and find out what the facts are in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163835	Well, some of this is also about how to do the most effective security planning on paper, so you don't have any waste hours, whatever that means. In the specific case in Esbjerg, but I have now heard that elsewhere too, the argument is simply that it is too hard to work full time in that subject. So it says something that you can use that explanatory statement. There are not many other industries where you would use the reason why people couldn't be full-time without all lamps flashing, compared to what it is for a working environment you let people work in. So I warmly support the fact that the government takes it into their mapping, i.e. what it is for barriers that are too full-time and what it is for arguments against full-time it seems to me would be very beneficial.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163918	Then there is a question from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417163921	I would also just like to thank Mrs Astrid Krag for the rapporteur's speech. And then, to follow up on Mrs Karina Adsbøl's question, I just think quite openly that we can talk about it or discuss it here: can it really be ruled out that there are also so-su employees who are actually working part-time of their own free will, and then next to supplementing with a vicariat, for example. in another municipality, because it might give some more flexibility in planning working time and maybe also give a little more in the payroll? Can that be ruled out?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164002	No, it certainly cannot be ruled out. So, in my own short career in the care of the elderly out on Amager, before I was elected to parliament, I had a colleague who did just that because she had the opportunity to do so financially, and then appreciated the freedom that was in not having many fixed hours, but could turn it up and down when needed. I think that's just a few of those who are part-time. And I'm sure we can also get numbers from the FOA that show that very many of those who are part-time would like to have several hours, maybe not quite up to full time. But there is also a very big difference between whether you are on a 20-hour part-time or a 30-hour part-time, in relation to both what you have of money for yourself and what you end up having for your old age etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164039	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164050	Thank you. As rapporteur for children and education in the Left, I am very pleased that we are having the opportunity today to debate some of the issues which are at least of great concern to us in the Left, namely the provision of skilled labour, which is in demand in many parts of our society in these years. I have also spoken about this many times before, because right now, the shortage of labour and skilled labour is one of our society's greatest challenges and, unfortunately, the challenge seems to be growing even bigger in the future. One of the places where there is a shortage of skilled labour, which we are just being given the opportunity to debate in this Chamber today, is in our care for the elderly and our health care. There is a lack of social and health workers in the municipalities of the country, and I would like to emphasise that this is an issue that we in the Left take seriously, because it is absolutely crucial that we can acquire the right skills in our care and health care and for our social efforts around the country. It deserves the elderly, it deserves the sick and those with special social challenges. Our government has already launched a number of initiatives to improve the situation of the lack of labour. We have among other things. with the 2018 Finance Act together with Dansk Folkeparti set aside 500 million. kr. a year for better staffing in the care of the elderly. We have even set aside 70 million. kr. in 2018-2021 to reduce sick leave in the care of the elderly. But we have not only allocated additional resources. We have also put a huge focus on the importance of vocational training. Our government is generally working to make it more attractive for young people to take vocational training. We have, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Nothing's finer than anything else. In recent years we have seen a great many young people opting for this general high school path, and there we have a common task across the parties in raising vocational training also. Our government has not finished looking at how we can do this and how we might make it even more attractive to take, for example. a sosu training. Right now, you're one of them. in dialogue with KL and Danske Regioner on the possibilities of making sosu education an advantage and thus helping to improve the practical possibilities for future sosu's. And I would say that our work to recruit social and health workers is one of the things we need to continue. That is why I am also pleased that we have arrived at a joint proposal for adoption and I can say that the Left supports it. I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the joint proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164430	Thank you. There is one comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164432	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for a fine review of the areas of action. However, I would just like to point out that it is good to focus on the need for more resources, but some staff must also be trained so that we can benefit from it. When the rapporteur mentions this benefit education, that is to say, making social and health education a benefit education, then there are also considerations about thinking adult students back in, and also an actual adult pupil's salary, because it is a fact that at the time of the last change in education, we lost all the adult applicants because many think that it is incalculable with a basic course at SU, when they are perhaps well established and without being sure that they can actually go further on the course afterwards. Are there any considerations in relation to that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164526	For us in the Left, it's really, really important that we get more people to choose these sosu courses too. I do not wish to deny that this is also one of the issues on which we may be able to debate, i.e. whether or not there should be better opportunities in some way than also to have more adult education. As the SF's rapporteur is also aware, we need to sort out the issues in some way, and then we have to see why it is difficult to get young people, but also a little older, to choose this path. Then we will have to talk about whether this might also have to be changed in relation to the possibility of getting more people to choose adult education as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164613	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164617	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and thank you to the Left for your support for the joint proposal for adoption. I think it is very important that we can stand together, that there should be a mapping now and that we should take action. So thank you for that. In fact, we are already taking action in some areas. In relation to vocational training, we have a focus on the need for more people to apply to vocational training. And, of course, there are debates in the public school circle about some educational initiatives. It is going a little sluggish, and we are in fact very much in agreement, the Left and the Danish People's Party, about things. So what is the assessment made by Mrs Anni Matthiesen in relation to when we can fully achieve those negotiations? Because it cannot be fast enough to get more people to apply for sosu training.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164708	I fully agree with Mrs Marlene Harpsøe that this is a matter of urgency. That is what it does in general, in relation to getting more young people to choose vocational training. We hear almost every week that the various industries are looking for more professional labour, and that is why it is one of the things we have and must also focus on in order to achieve it. I feel this way myself I know I'm an impatient soul that sometimes I want things to be resolved by tomorrow. But we have just dealt with four legislative proposals in the past, where we spent a very long time on it, and I have to say that it should take a little longer if we then ensure that the agreements we reach also have a good quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164801	Thank you. Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164804	I fully agree with that. And thank you for your answer. Now that we are talking about the four legislative proposals that we have discussed today, which are about the new preparatory initial training, it is possible for the new fucking people to focus on vocational training, and hence also sosu and the public labour market, which demand labour. What does Mrs Anni Matthiesen think about the possibility that as many of these different fgu schools as possible may create definite sosu courses, i.e. sosu workshops, if you can call them that, in the new fgu, to ensure that more people are looking for the sosu path afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164844	I really think, as we have discussed it earlier in this House today, that our joint Fgu agreement offers so many good opportunities for these young people. And I do not wish to deny that there may well be some lines that are obvious, in other words, where the focus is precisely on health and thus perhaps also on sosu education. At the same time, I would like to say that we may need to be careful not to make it too narrow. Well, I think it is important that we do not just call it a sosu line or a sosu road, because in this way we run the risk of too many young people opting out. But the health route, and hence perhaps also the sosu road, I think could actually be a nice way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164930	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417164935	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to know how the rapporteur sees it in relation to flex workers and people who get sick. Indeed, we see examples of many people who have a health education, for example. nurses and other people, and who get sick, where one has little thought that the municipalities should not take them as far as possible, but that they should go to the private sector. That is actually a pity, because many of them are nurses or assistants or something similar that could actually be lured into the system. So how does the rapporteur view the possibility of getting municipalities to get them into the area where we are lacking people?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165009	I really think that we have an obligation to dig into everything now that we should also have a survey done. So, what is the reason for the difficulty in getting enough staff? I do not wish to reject anything in advance because, as has already been said, we are going to lack a great many extra hands in this area. That's why I don't want to close any doors in advance. Now I think we should wait together for the survey and see what it will look like, and then we will have to sit together, which is also set out in the proposal for adoption, and discuss these things and how we can achieve objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165046	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165049	Thank you. I am also very much looking forward to those discussions, and it sounds just so good that it can be relatively soon that we have them. I am here with some figures showing what the re-prioritisation contribution means in the individual schools. I was a little concerned about that in my speech, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left what she thinks it means for the quality of education and, therefore, for the reputation of education, for example. at SOSU Sjælland, located in Ringsted, will save 18.2 million. kr., when we reach 2021. At SOPU in Copenhagen the figure is 17 million. kr. At SOSU C in Brøndby it is over 13 million. kr. Does the rapporteur of the Left believe that this means something to the quality of education?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165135	Making a re-priority contribution in the field of education is, after all, a political choice. After all, for many years we have avoided making savings, it can be said, both in cultural institutions and in the field of education. That is why a political decision was taken. It was also well thought that there might be some scope for change in some work processes or, for that matter, to make some improvements in efficiency, and thus also for the education sector to contribute some money, which could then be given priority to other areas, among other things. to be able to make cancer packages, etc., which have been some of the things that have meant a great deal to us in the Left that an effort has been made. So it's a political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165227	Thank you. Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165231	However, it was not an answer to the question of whether the rapporteur of the Left considers that it will mean something for the quality of the training that young people can get when they need to be fired and saved money here. I might not get an answer to that, so let me ask you something else. In fact, I believe that this means something for the opportunity that is available in schools to combat apostasy. One thing is how many people are looking for, how many are coming in and how many can be recorded, but another is how many are falling away. Will the rapporteur of the Left help us in this statement that we are going to have from the government also to look at what are the tools to combat the dropout in the sosu schools, and of course also very much at what these financial savings year by year, which in the sosu area alone amount to 140 million? kr. Until 2021, does it mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165318	To discuss how much money you really want to spend in the various areas, I can say that I actually believe that if we had a money tree in the backyard, we would all like to spend even more money, including on vocational training for that matter. Now that is the case, and I think the Socialist rapporteur is also aware of this, because she herself has been in government at some point, that those money trees do not exist, and that means that priority must also be given to them. So when you want to make an extra effort in some areas, among others. In the hospital area, you also have to find the money somewhere. In relation to apostasy, I do not wish to deny that this is something that can be discussed. I think that may be some of the things that the Minister for the Elderly is better acquainted with. Well, what exactly do you have to dig into the survey? So it is perhaps more obvious to ask the Minister about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165410	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jacobsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165414	Thank you. In the field of vocational training, we are generally of the opinion that those who ultimately need to use the trained should also be involved in training them, in other words that they should take them into practical training. Does the rapporteur of the Left recognise that we have somehow made a mistake here when we say that the sosu assistant students must go through an internship in a regional offer and at the same time in the municipality, bearing in mind that the municipalities have a much greater recruitment need than they do in the regions? In this way, it can be said that the regions have no incentive to train all those they actually need in the municipalities. And can the rapporteur of the Left see that we need to link up the system so that the municipalities can actually get those assistants out to the other end, even though the regions act as a limiting factor, in relation to how many people can be trained?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165520	As a general rule, we are deeply dependent on both regions and municipalities taking responsibility for hiring and ensuring that there are subsequently trained staff to handle precisely the tasks in the municipalities and regions. At this very moment there are negotiations and discussions with the KL, and it is clear that this is where you also have the opportunity to knock a little on the table and say that they must now assume an additional responsibility. Otherwise they will also shoot themselves in the foot in the end if there are no trained staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165603	Sir. Jeppe Jacobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165606	I do not think that the problem is the KL, because it is in fact those who have the greatest need for social and health assistants. The problem is that we have created an education which requires that we get past a region which needs social and health assistants to a lesser extent. How far, if I may say so, are the Liberals prepared to go into regional self-government and to force them to help ensure that adequate training is provided for social and health assistants who will actually have to work in the municipalities when they are finished? Are you willing to take action here to ensure care for the elderly in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165641	Well, I have no doubt that we in the Left are willing to take action. But I also think I can honestly say that coercion probably doesn't like us very much. But I think that through dialogue and by tightening the screws a little in other ways we can do something to get the regions to take greater responsibility as well. But we don't like coercion very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165707	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165709	It was actually the rapporteur's remarks about a money tree that led me to speak. Because there are no money trees, but there is a policy, and the government is also leading this, where, since the government came into force, a number of tax rebates have been consistently introduced which have very much benefited the richest. For example, you have... reduced the inheritance tax for billionaire and millionaire heirs to family-owned companies. We have made luxury cars cheaper and we have done other things which cost money and which have clearly benefited the richest. So if you don't have a money tree, because it doesn't exist, you might be able to pursue a different policy where, instead of getting the money out of tax rebates like this, you used it for example. Increased welfare in the municipalities, which would also make it more attractive for young people to have a desire, for example. to become social and health assistants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165803	In fact, I have read this week that if you measure it in terms of giving tax relief to the richest, then it was under the former Red Government that even higher tax relief was obtained for the well-earned. I do not dare to say whether what was in the newspaper I read is correct, but I just think that it may also be important to say in this Chamber today that it is not the case that we would have liked it to be such that we have made very, very many tax concessions which have come to the benefit of the richest. Perhaps it is especially those with small incomes who have benefited from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165849	Sir. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165852	That is true, and we did not always agree with the tax policy pursued under the Social Democratic led government from 2011 to 2015. I believe that what the rapporteur refers to is an article in the Jyllands-Posten which shows that the tax agreement that the current government is behind is a little less biased than the one that was made in 2012. However, it must be said in the defence of the Social Democratic Party that it is not my job to defend them that the proposal for a tax agreement originally presented by the government would have been even worse than the tax agreement adopted in 2012. But is it not true that we could not spend the money on tax rebates for the richest? You could actually use them for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417165932	I simply do not think we will agree politically on this. In the Left we feel that it is not a either-or, but a boat-and-a-boat. We also want good care for the elderly and good health systems and a good hospital system, good schools and so on. However, we still believe that there must also be the possibility of tax reductions and tax reductions which, for that matter, can also benefit the weakest families.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170002	Thank you for that to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it's just sir. Rune Lund. He's got to find up here now. Maybe it's the tax discounts that confuse Mr. Kim. Rune Lund. But now we're gonna say, "Here you go, Mr. Simpson." Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170044	Thank you. I always have a lot of papers in my place for these debates, and sometimes papers can stay away. Thank you to the authors for taking the initiative in the debate. It has to be said quite simply that it is a threat to our care and health care sector that we have so much shortage of sosu assistants and that we can see a future in which the lack of skilled staff in the social and health professions will increase if we do nothing. That is why we need to do something, and that is why today's debate is extremely relevant. It is both about educating more people and attracting more people to an important and exciting subject, and it is also about maintaining the employees we already have. It is therefore quite appropriate that both the Minister for Education and the Minister for the Elderly attend today and, as has also been shown in the debate, the presence of the Minister for Health could have been relevant today. For unfortunately, the number of so-su students has fallen in the last four years. Unfortunately, the reform of vocational training is one of the reasons. From May 2015 to May 2016, the number of students with a training agreement or an internship in the sosu area has decreased from 18.449 to 14.844, corresponding to a fall of 19.5 per cent. In fact, this is not because there are no internships, but because the number of applicants has fallen dramatically. It has been said in the context of the reform that a requirement of character should increase recognition and make more people seek it. But we can only note that it has not worked. On the contrary, it seems to be a large part of the problem that we are facing now, namely a great lack of so-su helpers and so-su assistants. From the Enhedslisten side we therefore want to remove the character requirement again. It is also important to improve pay and working conditions in the care of the elderly. Social and health workers and social and health assistants are proud of their profession, and with good reason. They do vital work in home care, nursing homes, and hospitals. But their important work is not matched by recognition, either in terms of fair working conditions for carrying out the work or in terms of proper pay. Today, it is the employees in the social and health professions who pay a large part of the price for welfare being shaved. There is a screwed-up pace and a laborious working environment. Many people feel compelled to work part - time to keep to the job, and it costs both wages and pensions. Some come in before working hours start, or they go later than they are paid for, and it is simply to get the ends to meet. And when they receive their paychecks, they can see that they belong to the employees who receive the lowest wage. It simply needs more recognition and it needs to be reflected in better pay and better working conditions. We also know that there are many sosus who work part-time, even if they want to work full-time, and it should be quite simple to give the right to full-time for those who want it. No one assumes a safe working environment. One main explanation for the fact that many work part-time is that the work is too hard. It is not right for employees to pay for the poor working environment with a part-time salary and therefore also a part-time pension. In the Enhedslisten, many months ago, we proposed combating inequality between men and women by allocating 5 billion. kr. in a special equal pay pool. The funds we have proposed have been earmarked to combat unequal pay. If, for example, it doesn't work, it doesn't work. In addition, there is a need to increase the number of people employed in the public service who have the lowest wage, which will include some 270,000 employees, mostly women, and this will result in approx. 21,000 kroner. more in salary a year before tax, if you are full-time employed. There is a need to employ significantly more people to ensure a sound welfare and a sound working environment. But that is related to the question of recruitment. That is why, in our opinion, it is a question that bites itself in the tail: if we do not succeed in ensuring better recruitment, working conditions will become worse and therefore recruitment will also become more difficult. It can turn into the famous vicious circle, and therefore it is crucial that we act. That is why we, the Enhedslisten, also support the proposal for adoption that has been put forward so that discussions and negotiations can begin in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170533	There are brief comments. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170536	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. As I heard, Enhedslisten actually wants to remove the character requirements for sosu education. But I am just thinking: is there not a risk that you will find it difficult to cope with the training if the professional requirements you meet when you start are simply difficult to meet? Or how does the rapporteur view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170609	The experience gained at the time of the vocational training reform was, of course, that many people at the time completed an education without having started the training with a view to meeting the requirements of character which apply today. That is why it must be said that those people would not have been able to carry out vocational training at the time if the requirements of character which apply today had been applied at that time. So for me, and for Enhedslisten to see, there is no doubt that the fact that you have made the character requirement has not helped to raise the education that the argument was otherwise, but has actually contributed to fewer coming in, and hence also fewer being trained in the end. After all, some pupils have to go into an education first and then get started on some of the things that you might say they should have learned in the past, and that is also true, but for some it is still the case that they start an education after primary school, where there is no requirement of character that does today, they end up completing and taking an education after primary school; that is what we actually saw. There have actually been some reduced opportunities today, and we have no doubt that this has an impact on this area as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170724	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170725	On the other hand, what we are dealing with is that there is a great apostasy, and unfortunately there are many places. Some of this apostasy may also be due to the fact that one has not really been prepared well enough for what is actually required when one starts training. And there I can be nervous that if you suddenly remove the character requirements, you will actually increase the apostasy even more. I do not know whether the rapporteur can agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170800	I agree, insofar as and this is what we have proposed to you: it is a question of proper guidance. And, of course, it is also about enough resources in the education system, and that, for example, there are. does not make green harvester savings of 2%. Every year we are strongly opposed to something that we want to abolish, because education is what we have in our country. That's what we have to make a living on. That is what is the main thing in our small open economy. But the quality requirement as such has not contributed to anything good, other than that fewer people take an education. In fact, we have also seen that, as a result of that reform, the drop has increased. So if that is what one would like to achieve by making a character requirement, it is certainly not what has been achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170847	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417170849	First of all, thank you, sir. Rune Lund for the rapporteur's speech and for the commitment to supporting this joint proposal for adoption. That is really, really positive and thank you for that. I would like to continue where Mrs Anni Matthiesen left off, because I got a little curious about this because Enhedslisten seems to think that the character requirement of 2 in Danish and mathematics should be removed when applying for vocational training. We have previously seen how there has been an abnormally large dropout on vocational training before introducing this 2-figure requirement in Danish and mathematics. We introduced it precisely to ensure that when you got out of primary school, you had the professional level to be able to take a vocational training course. Now Mr. Rune Lund, that you want to remove it again, but don't you do yourself a bit of a disservice when you do it? In that case, it is not to be expected that young people will at least have the professional level in order to be able to take up vocational training. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171002	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171002-2	I would really like to answer the same thing as I did to Mrs Anni Matthiesen: if the character requirements which apply now had been in force before the reform of vocational training was made a few years ago, there would be many people who have actually carried out vocational training today who would not have been able to do so, because they had never been admitted. And that means that some people who have completed vocational training today would never have been able to do so. This is, of course, the clear example of the fact that the character requirement that has been introduced is simply too square and prevents people from getting started with vocational training and acquiring the skills and learning that lie in vocational training. Then it is true that one could then ask whether those competences should not have been acquired earlier in the school system. Yes, that is true, but we do have young people who do not have it but who are still able to carry out vocational training. That's what history tells us. And I have to say that with the agreement that has been made at the time, which is still in force, young people are actually being prevented from taking vocational training, and that is something that we want people to do more than they do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171110	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171111	These are, of course, some interesting points of view, as Mr. Rune Lund says. I just have to say that I totally disagree. But I would just like to listen to the transitional requirements which are then also today for vocational training, which are laid down by professional committees: Is Enhedslisten also against them? It is not so easy today either to become a carpenter or an electrician etc. The trade committees have some professional requirements which they have set to meet in order to get to the main stage. Is that something that Enhedslisten wants to loop?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171144	I can at least say that in general we have no plans at all to water down the professional level anywhere in the education system, but I have to say that I do not quite understand what Mrs Marlene Harpsøe says when she says that she disagrees with me. One cannot disagree with the figures in relation to the fact that those people who have previously completed vocational training but who did not meet the requirements of character today would not have been able to start vocational training today. That is, as it were, the facts. It is not about disagreeing or agreeing with me, it is quite simply the case, and that is also why the character requirement is so wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171219	Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171220	I would also like to thank Mr Seligman. Rune Lund. Now I know that Enhedslisten wasn't part of the circle behind this early retirement and flexible job reform, but I would like to know, as with the question I asked recently, how Enhedslisten sees the opportunities that exist in connection with the health professionals who are in the municipalities, that is, the possibility that they might get back to the care centres and into the care area and no longer be the focus of when they get well, they will be sent out into the private system. Is it more money for the municipalities, or how does Enhedslisten see that it could be done in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171254	First of all, we were clearly opposed to the early retirement and flex-job reform, because the possibilities for early retirement and the conditions for flex-jobs were drastically reduced. However, in general terms, we are in favour of a inclusive labour market where there is a possibility that with the skills you have, you can enter and contribute in the way you can now. It should not be such a system where you hunt down the unemployed and the sick and the unemployed and do bed practice and resource sequences that are endless without any prospects of getting to work. This is a reprehensible way of treating those people who are so unfortunate to be affected by, for example. unemployment or sickness. But of course we must do everything we can. For those who are waiting for a flex job and who want a flex job, we must look at the possibilities of creating as many of them as possible. This applies to the private sector, but this also applies, of course, to the public sector, including the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171356	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171357	I would certainly agree with the rapporteur. It is a complete hole in our head that we are talking about having some people, nurses who get into some sort of process, so that they gradually get worn out and lose their appetite for it, if there are these health-care options where you make some simple tools that make them able to get back to the care centres and other places very quickly. Because that's where I think there's a lot of potential, so it's pretty good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171425	But it also requires that we have some conditions within, for example. health care or in hospitals where nurses are not running themselves to death because of the pace we are seeing today. We have seen how a nurse today, due to productivity increases, among other things. with the productivity requirement of 2%. annually, runs more than 40%. faster than was done in the early '00s. We are simply running so fast today that things are not connected, and that is why it is good that in the context of the Regional Agreements for 2018 it was agreed to grant a 2% derogation from the productivity requirement. For this year. However, this is a political battle which we have yet to bring to an end and which is still relevant to health care workers and, for that matter, also to employees working in the area of the elderly in the municipalities. There is not a 2% productivity requirement, but there is also a strong race. Things are simply not connected when you look at how busy they are in relation to the staff resources allocated.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171531	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417171544	Thank you. I would imagine that there are many politicians who do not have a very strong desire to join the Detector, although Mr. Rune Lund has certainly just done her very best to get there. Because the question of what social and health workers actually serve has been thoroughly addressed in the Detector recently, and so I will be a little curious about what was found out. What Detector found out was that a so-su helper has a so-called net pay of approx. 24,600 kr. a month and a so - called total salary of about DKK 31,700. And the difference is whether you include, among other things. vacation allowance and pension. If the total wage is taken into account, about two thirds of Danish employees earn less. I'm just repeating it because it sounds so counterintuitive I can see, sir. Rune Lund is trying to listen to what I say: about two thirds of Danish employees earn less than a sosu-helper serves. In other words, they are in the best third. I believe that one of the things we can at least do is not to talk down wages in the sector. I think that is very, very important, and I think we should all help each other with that. After all, the issue of pay does not matter when we are discussing the recruitment of social and health workers. But when a job has a salary that is in the best third, my experience at least says that then it should not be the salary that was the greatest of the problems we face. And that is why I think it is necessary instead to look at a number of other things, in other words to look at how education works, as we also mentioned. Do they have a high level of professionalism? Is there a motivating everyday life, that is, has the course been organized in a motivating way? Mrs Marlene Harpsøe is absolutely right that all studies show that there is a direct link between grades and the risk of apostasy. It has been established many times. But there are other reasons for apostasy, because you can organize an unmotivating study day, and that will of course increase the risk. So, of course, that is something you have to look at. I think it is important to be aware that there must be sufficient internships and that it must also be communicated so that it does not become an anxiety one has just built into his choice of studies and something that deters any applicants from joining. Fortunately, we have a very good government that is already working on these issues. The Minister for Education has already mentioned this. The reform of vocational training has a positive effect on professional competence and the agreements on internships work. It is also important that public jobs are well-managed and that they are well-managed, and they are, to a large extent, already well-managed. However, we must also be aware that the Minister for Public Innovation is also working to ensure that the public sector is even better and that management is even better. It is the case that phenomena such as stress and such common discomfort in being at work and also parts of sick leave really, very often have something to do with poor management, and therefore it is of course very important to pay attention to the issue of management. But so, both in terms of pay and in terms of creating good education and jobs, a great deal is already being done. I agree, of course, that it is very good for us to have a comprehensive survey, but I also believe that the time is our ally when it comes to recruiting. It's going to be better in the future than it is now. I personally believe that if things were to change seriously, decentralisation and deregulating the area might be the right way to go. Perhaps there would also be room for many kinds of actors. But I am also aware that there is no political will to do so here in Denmark, so I take it cold and calmly. The way forward is the path of small improvements, and the government has long since embarked on this, but I am very pleased with the debate today and thank you for having been raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172025	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There was just one for a brief comment. It is again Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172035	Thank you. I simply wonder whether the rapporteur thinks that we have a huge recruitment problem in the field of social and health care, where it is precisely not possible to recruit enough staff. Does the rapporteur agree that we simply have to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172055-2	That is, of course, the premise for the debate and the premise for the adoption that we all agree on, so it is entirely self-evident.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172104	Thank you for that, and Mrs Kirsten Normann again.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172114	Then I would just like to hear the rapporteur's reply so freely from the liver without having to go into details with figures. I can find some quite different salaries from those mentioned by the rapporteur along the way, regardless of what Detector says. But with an annual salary of DKK 273,000. For a newly trained social and health assistant, does the rapporteur think that health workers are extremely well paid?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172132	As will be known to all politically interested people, this is a very delicate issue with pay issues in the public sector, which it is not a good idea for me to stand and spread around here in Parliament's speaking chair, that is to say, agreements and something like that. I have examined what Detector has arrived at, and if the questioner would like a trip to Detector, she can repeat her claims with a loud, clear voice, because then it may be that Detector is calling.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172202	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172205	Thank you. I was aware that the rapporteur mentioned that such a less rigid regulation of the area could have great potential. It is true that the Minister for the Elderly, together with the KL, recently reviewed the entire older sector in order to find all these hopeless rules. It's a job that resulted in a whole lot of nothing. It turned out that there were not a lot of rules that could be abolished so that everything could go much easier. I just want to hear what kind of rules the rapporteur thinks can only be abolished in the older sector, so that it becomes much easier to be employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172247	It is just generally the case that decentralisation is the best medicine to make things work. It has been proved numerous times.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172257	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172259	This has been said for many years, that is to say, the fact that we simply have to debureaucratise and decentralise, and then it all gets a lot easier. But that's just the thing about being concrete once in a while and then maybe pointing to some things where you say that that's inappropriate. Because you've tried it with this big report. And then I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of something that they have forgotten or overlooked in this great work of finding all the difficulties that could be pointed out so that it could actually be better out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172328	After all, all reports are made on some set of premises, and I am sure that on the terms set out, it is a very good report. I say, of course, that there is probably no political will to really embark on decentralisation, and that is why it is a kind of future music that I am trying to review here. But decentralisation is what works. There is little political will in this country, and that is why things are the way they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172354	Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172356	Thank you to the rapporteur. I got a little curious when the rapporteur started talking about poor management. What is the rapporteur thinking? Is it municipalities that need to be better at management? Is that in relation to KL? Or what is the rapporteur thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172412	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172413	Like the previous questioner, I have allowed myself to draw so much from my general knowledge of organisation and the public sector, so it is only what can be read out, namely that experts in public management say that there is this connection. I don't think any of us have an interest in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172438	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172440	However, the rapporteur points out one thing which does that, with regard to the KL, they are asking for some funds and other things. Is it then that the rapporteur is thinking that perhaps what should be said to the KL is that some of these funds should perhaps be channelled into better management, especially in the care sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172500	After all, general management work has been started, and I am sure that something will come of it. However, many times there are some assumptions that make it difficult to reach political agreement on making major changes. We are a country that makes tiny changes and not so much else. But it may well be that there is a political will to make major changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172524	In doing so, we would like to thank Mr. Henrik Dahl. The next in line is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172535	Thank you. Niels, who lives in a foster home in Aarhus, has previously said in a broadcast on Denmark's Radio, and I quote: "Best as you think Jane will come, someone comes in through the door that you have not seen before. Then it'll be dinner, and then there'll be a whole different face. It's hard to make a personal contact. It is not satisfying in human terms. Niels has had more than 100 different helpers in 2 years. So that story has been brought on Danmarks Radio. There is a huge shortage of sosu staff, as we have also heard here today, and thanks to the Danish People's Party for taking it up here in the Assembly Hall. In future we will have large generations of older Danes, and at the same time many employees will retire. The paradox, as we have also heard others mention today, is that the number of seats in the Sosu schools has been reduced because the municipalities previously considered that the number of seats reflected the need for employment. Obviously it doesn't. When the new training came into force January 2017, the number of seats on the sosu helper training was reduced by 76 per cent. The decision on the number of training places is political. So the issue we are discussing today is not just about the economy. It is also about the link between training places and the needs of the labour market and the dimensioning of education which does not always correspond to the future reality, and therefore I am also pleased that, for once, we have two ministers present in the Parliamentary Chamber today, in other words both the Minister for the Elderly and the Minister for Education. Because it is rare for us to have this coherence created in the debates we have here in the Assembly. There are several challenges in relation to this problem, for there is also a lack of applicants for the sosu schools and for the sosu courses. In 2017, 1,150 seats stood empty. Working with people is admirable and meaningful, but it is not just about talking up this area, as I do, for example. I think the rapporteur of the Left said so. It is therefore also a question of investing in vocational education and training and focusing on the fantastic teachers and pupils we have in schools; it is a question of developing schools rather than dismantling them. So, of course, it is also about the economy, and let us invest in vocational training rather than cutting them year after year. Finally, I would like to say that we support the proposal for adoption, which has been read out by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and again I would like to praise and say that it is good to see a text for adoption in which all parties, from the Enhedslisten to the Liberal Alliance, if I may say so, are included. So I think it's nice. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172857	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172859	Thank you. I think it was a little tempting now to ask how much more the alternative will invest in vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172912	In our last financial act, we have rolled back the 2-percent savings, plus that we have additional investment in vocational training. So it's part of our financial bill play that we made last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172927	Thank you. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172929	Now I know that it may be difficult in this House today to know what will then be included in next year's draft financial legislation by the Alternative; I do not think I will have the rapporteur reveal that. But can the rapporteur perhaps say something about where the money came from? I mean, where did you take the money from? Because that's how you have to have the accounts together. So where's the money taken from?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417172954	We have made an overall financial act, so it is not the case that we have just taken them from somewhere, and I think it will be very comprehensive to stand here and account for pluses and minuses and our entire financial act. So I actually think that, in relation to the idea of where it has been taken, I have to say that it is an overall budget. To stand and say that we have just taken it away from it, I do not think it makes any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417173022	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. We move on to the next, which is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417173034	First of all, I want to start by thanking the Danish People's Party again, because you are constantly focusing on and also keeping up the government's problems and challenges in recruiting social and health workers. Then there are a great many of the rapporteurs who have mentioned a great many specific challenges, and I will not mention all these figures again. There are a lot of people who have based themselves on this KL and FOA report, and we have read it with concern in the Radical Left too. There is no doubt that the problem is urgent, and that is what I can hear from all the parties in the Danish Parliament agree on. But one can then ask oneself the question: why is it that nothing is happening? Everyone agrees that it is also necessary for more young people to want to take a vocational training course and, in relation to today's debate, to want to take a sosu training course. Nevertheless, the government has chosen to save on the vocational education and training programmes, and if you add the figures from 2016, 2017 and 2018, you can see that the government has saved a total of 72 million. kr. at the sosu schools. I'm sorry, but it sounds a little hollow when you're out at the same time saying that you take the problem very seriously. So it's at least one place we could start. At least we could start by stopping the savings in sosu schools. On the radical side, we agree with the Danish People's Party on the problem, that it is great, that it is acute and that we must do something. However, the problem is so great that we cannot sit around and wait for the development of admission to the relevant courses to increase. Because while we're waiting in here, real elderly and sick people are waiting for other people, qualified staff, to take them by hand, care and help them. Therefore, we would like to raise the issue that we also need to look at attracting qualified foreign labour. It is clear that there may be linguistic challenges for some if one has just come here, for example as a German, and one has to work with elderly and sick citizens, and on the radical side we also believe that one should be able to speak Danish before working as an employee in the care sector. But it is not impossible to learn Danish, and I am quite sure that my mother-in-law, who is in a nursing home, will appreciate that there are the staff that are needed, for example. there are sufficient night shifts in her nursing home, even if a few employees had to speak with a little accent. The problem is serious. It is far too serious for talk and simple solutions. We need to do something significantly different than we are doing today, and we are on the radical side ready to discuss all possible solutions. We are pleased and satisfied that the government has today promised that they will map the area, and then they will convene all the parties of the Folketing for discussions and negotiations on what to do about this very, very big problem. Finally, of course, we agree with the proposal for adoption. Then I would like to conclude by thanking the Danish People's Party once again for the work that has been done in getting all the parties of the Danish Parliament to join in a joint motion for a resolution that we are now getting something done. First, we will look into the area and then we will get put down and discuss all possible solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417173419	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417173428	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this question debate. It is a very good initiative and thanks to the rapporteurs, each of whom has already contributed with lots of examples of challenges that require action. I would like to reiterate the example that the social and health schools must be exempted from the huge savings. But that is precisely why I also think that, as the raisin in the sausage end today, I can start a completely different place. When I got my first job as a very young person as an unskilled elderly person, it was because it was completely impossible to man all jobs with skilled staff. However, my employment was subject to the condition that I would be part of a rotation scheme in which, when it was my turn, I would take training. That's how I became a nurse. That was quite an eye-opener, I would like to say, because although I had been thoroughly trained in a lot of functions as an unskilled person, everything from switching bandages on wounds to catheter care and injections with insulin, I found along the way that there was a very big difference between knowing how to do the job and knowing why you have to do the job in a very specific way. The difference meant briefly and well that I was subsequently able to reflect on the symptoms myself and thus also was able to react to things that had to be reacted to when needed. That is why education is such an enragedly important prerequisite for quality. Since then, I have helped reform education and we have received social and health education afterwards, and that was very good. However, despite this, recruitment to health has been a challenge all the years, which has been sought with more or less success, and we have also seen with my eyes two quite obvious challenges. All too often we hear that the social and health workers themselves experience that others think that they are just wiping others in the back, I think you should say when you stand on the speaking chair of the Folketing. And if the young people look at the salary, there isn't much to lure with here, let alone the sick absence. As the Minister for the Elderly also mentioned, no one is actually dreaming of a working life where they can look forward to high absenteeism. Social and health education simply does not have the best image among young people who have to choose a youth education. Unfortunately, young people are not in line for social and health education when they leave primary school, and relatively many of those who still choose this path to education have an ambition to use the education as a springboard for medium-level higher education, for example to become a nurse. This is also a good thing, but it also means that the food chain for social and health education needs to be strengthened in order to avoid a shortage of social and health workers and, in particular, social and health assistants. The recruitment of adults to education has stalled. The recent reform of social and health education in particular has unfortunately resulted in the disappearance of adults. The compulsory basic course at the SU without any assurance that you will subsequently be admitted to the formal part of the course is too big a mouthful for established adults. The number of applicants has therefore fallen dramatically, and we therefore need to take this seriously. That is why we must act at two levels, I think. The faded image must be repaired by creating development opportunities. In practice, young people should be able to see the many career opportunities in the hospital, elderly care, psychiatry, adult and disability sectors. And we must ensure recognition of the training programmes by proving that there are opportunities for development and that the training courses are an independent subject area. The social and health assistants are therefore not only less educated nurses, but a subject which has a look and ability to take care of important areas of action. When, for example, it doesn't work. has succeeded in overlooking a patient who had not been given food for 5 days or when a patient cannot have a bath, it seems to me that the lack of the professional skills of social and health assistants, which the hospitals must demand to be repaired. If we are ever to hope that the close and coherent health care system will work in practice, it will require social and health assistants who have practical experience in various sectors. Exactly the same applies to nurses. For far too long, we have refused to implement the practical transfer of tasks. Unfortunately, the violent debate on 1813 was such an example. The training of nurses has just developed in a way that makes it realistic that the duties of doctors can be transferred to nurses, and tasks for which nurses are responsible can be transferred to social and health assistants. In this way, perhaps, the problem of lack of doctors could also be solved. If we succeed in this effort, we can more easily overcome my second proposal for action, namely a special effort to re-scramble adults: adult pay, job rotation and specially targeted efforts, which must qualify universally for direct access to the main courses, are methods that can be used, and I think these are necessary efforts. SF supports the proposal for adoption which was read out by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and let me stress in particular the point of calling the parties for a discussion on the critical recruitment situation. I think this is a very important area of action. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174003	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I do not immediately see any rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, so we go to the ministers. And I understand that it has been agreed that it is first the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174027	Thank you for today's debate. I think we have had a good discussion of both challenges and possible actions that can help meet recruitment challenges today and in the future. As I said in my opening speech, I take recruitment challenges very seriously. This is also why the government has already launched a number of actions. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have prioritised 500 million with the 2018 Finance Act Agreement. kr. annual to better staffing in the care of the elderly, with a special focus on enabling employees to move from part-time to full-time. In addition, 70 million have been set aside. kr. from 2018 to 2021 to strengthen municipalities' efforts to reduce absenteeism. Finally, with the National Dementia Action Plan, we have launched this year's Dementia Prize, which helps to talk up the care of the elderly and all the employees. A number of initiatives have also been taken in the field of education, as the Minister for Education has explained. I therefore believe that the government's policy in this area shows that we have addressed the recruitment challenges facing the municipalities. And now the Minister of Education and I will take the initiative to undertake a mapping of the problems of municipalities and regions in recruiting qualified staff in the area of the elderly, and we will, on the basis of the survey, invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to discuss the issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174211	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174215	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. We're looking forward to this mapping, which is why my question is: when does the government expect to have this mapping in place, and what will the content of it be? Because, as has just been pointed out in today's debate, 86 per cent of the total is spent. by the social and health staff employed part-time. Is this also something that will be included in the survey, i.e. what the background is for so many people to be employed part-time? Is it because you do not want to hire them full-time, or is it because you use unskilled staff to keep budgets down? Or what is the reason for this? Is this also something that will be included in the survey? And as I said, I'd like to know when the mapping is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174301	Thank you for the question. In other words, we want a thorough study, and of course we also include today's good input in the considerations that are when the mapping is organised. So, in relation to when it will be finished, I would say that I cannot tell you about that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174322	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174323	Anyway, we're looking forward to the government doing this mapping as soon as possible. And the Minister also mentioned that there is of course some knowledge about this area, which can also be used in the survey. So I would like to hear from the Minister when he says in his speech that the Minister takes this very seriously: what dialogue has the Minister had with the regions and the KL on this problem and challenge in recruiting health workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174353	In February I had a talk with the chairman of the KL and talked to him about this particular problem and they take it very seriously. And it has been suggested by KL that we should have a pool of 0.5 billion. kr. for recruitment, which has been taken along. So there's no doubt that KL is also aware of this big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174423	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174425	Thank you. In reply to the question, the Minister for the Elderly mentioned that we need to talk about the care of the elderly. I agree with that. We need to talk about how rewarding a job it can be to make this effort, but when the examples come up with road maps that are not linked and about unreasonable demands on employees, about employees who spend their spare time on their work to get things together, is the Minister not afraid that you will end up as comic Ali if you stand and talk about talking about an area that clearly does not need speech but needs funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174513	Well, I'm also glad that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has just gone into this problem and among other things. in the 2018 Finance Act, has set aside 500 million. kr. In addition to this, there are 70 million unemployed in the Community. kr. over 4 years to work on reducing sick leave. It is precisely where you go in and take responsibility and tell with the Danish People's Party that we have a problem, and we have to face that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174547	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174547-2	I am very pleased that the government has been sensitive to these problems with extra funds. But we already see that the first municipality, the Municipality of Bornholm, has been out to say: We are planning new savings in the area of the elderly. How far is the government willing to go in relation to saying that when you think that extra money should be spent, extra money should be spent in the municipalities? Is it willing to take action against these municipalities with extra earmarking of their funds if they meet additional funds to remove them again at the other end?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174622	At any rate, I think that the catalogue of the austerity proposals that lies is extremely unworthy of care for the elderly, but it is a catalogue, and now we have to see whether local politicians really want to do this. I believe that the fact that you can only have a bath every two weeks is not worthy of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174650	Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174652	Thank you to the government, thank you to the Minister for the Elderly for supporting this adoption. After all, it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party have for a long time been pushing for a mapping and real action by the government in this area. So thank you for that. I would like to follow up on what my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has just said. Jeppe Jakobsen asked about this particular savings proposal in the municipality of Bornholm, which is that the elderly have saved a bath away, and so the elderly just have to be washed with a couple of laundry napkins. What I am thinking is whether the Minister believes that, when there is such a saving proposal as is being made here, it is something that means that more people want to apply for sosu training, that is, if they know that this is what they are being met with in the care of the elderly, or if the Minister thinks that it might actually be that it makes more people apply for sosu training? It's been said a little bit naughty.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174753	I am convinced that our many fantastic staff in the area of care for the elderly cannot see themselves in what has come in that catalogue over from Bornholm, and I am absolutely convinced that not many people can see themselves in it. But it is a proposal and I am convinced that the politicians over there cannot see themselves in it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174822	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174824	I am glad that the Minister is saying this, because I believe that such a proposal makes some people frightened away from being in the care of the elderly at all. Something else that I hear scares people away from being employed in the care of the elderly, this is where the professional skills are taken away from you, for example. as a sosu employee. Does the Minister have any comments on that? How do we get rid of this? For it is clear that if you have trained to care for an elderly person, you would like to do more than only lubricate liver pie sandwiches if the minister understands what I mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174855-2	I certainly understand that, and there is no doubt that trust also means a great deal, that is, that we should have confidence in our employees and not have so much control, but understand that there are a lot of dedicated employees who will really do the best for those they are dealing with. And then we must also show that we believe that they do. I would also like to say that, thank God, I also see very, very many places that this is a success.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174922	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417174924	Thank you. And also thank you from me for the commitment to really want to do something about the area. And I look very much forward to further discussions. In reply to the question, however, the Minister for the Elderly mentioned that absenteeism was a huge challenge and is a huge challenge and that funds have also been set aside, I can hear the Minister explaining now, to try to do something about this sickness absence. This is not the first time you have tried it. I wonder whether the Minister may perhaps be able to reveal what the Minister himself thinks there is the cause of the very high absence of sickness and whether the Minister also has a suggestion as to what might be done about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175004	For the time being, that is why we have now set aside the 70 million together with the Danish People's Party. kr. over the next four years. So it's a pool, and then the municipalities can offer some strategies for reducing sick leave, and when you have the specific knowledge, you can spread this knowledge. So right now, the pool is out, and until 31 May this year, the municipalities can apply for these funds, and then it'll be exciting to see what you're getting at. There is precisely a huge challenge with sickness absenteeism in many areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175055	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175058	Thank you. Actually, I think I understand how this money is set aside. And I would just like to ask the Minister to answer the question then. What does the Minister himself think may be the cause of the great absence of sickness, and can the Minister reveal what the Minister himself thinks should be done? This is not the first time that efforts have been made in relation to sickness absence, so it is a little interesting whether the Minister will also reveal what considerations the Minister himself is making in this particular area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175131	Well, I guess, among other things. and that the 500 million. kr., which we have given each year to make a better manning, can affect sick absence; you get more colleagues, and there is a little more breathing space in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175149	Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175150	I would like to ask the Minister for the Elderly about the quality assurance of the 500 million. kr.: How does the Minister ensure that they are used in the best possible way? Then I would also like to know what you think about the management in the municipalities. Because I have examples that employees have been told that if they are critical on Facebook in relation to their workplace, it is firing basis, and others have been faced with other things. As far as the bad working environment is concerned, the best management is important, and if the KL does not understand it, how does the Minister intend to bring that agenda up, in other words, in relation to that issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175230	A management commission has been set up to look at management, because there is no doubt that it is very important for the individual employee that they have a visible leader, that they have a leader who takes the lead and shows the way in the work. I look forward to seeing the matter later this year in terms of management, because it is a very, very important thing, including in terms of employee satisfaction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175255	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175257	What then does the Minister think about the fact that some municipalities believe that women of different ethnic backgrounds can easily get into the care of the elderly, that is, because they have this social responsibility. But many of those women, you might say, have problems with Danish knowledge here, and it will also be a major problem because of their schooling, in other words, in terms of documentation requirements and all these things. So what does the Minister think about the reports coming from these mayors who think that this is obviously a way to solve the problem? What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175326	I think it is incredibly important that we bring in employees who have received a good education and understand the fundamental values in our area, precisely how we can make a good effort towards the elderly and understand what they need. And that is why education is extremely important, among other things. In this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175353	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175356	Thank you. I would just like to hold on to the first point, as my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has done. Carsten Kudsk asked about how you're going to follow these 500 million. kr. for better standards in nursing homes and home care. When we sat in government, we had some unfortunate experience in allocating the same amount for better standards in the day care sector and could not subsequently find the money resulting in better standards in nursery and nursery schools. It would be a real shame if the same thing happened to this money, which has to go to secure more employees in the area of older people. Can the Minister explain that, too, I heard Mr. Carsten Kudsk asks how you plan to follow that money, so you're sure they're either going to upgrade from part-time to several hours, maybe even full-time, or to new appointments?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175443	They will be followed and the different municipalities will have to report every year what they intend to spend money on and what they have spent it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175455	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175457	It's gonna be exciting to follow. Then I would say to the Minister that it is indeed nice to hear the Minister distance himself from a savings catalogue in a specific municipality, which I think we can all agree on sounds quite up and at least very far from having much with... [Sound emission]... Then I got the sound again, it was nice. When the economy of the municipalities is under pressure in this way, we just have to look forward. I discussed this with the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. How does the Minister for the Elderly feel about being a minister in a government that will not allow the money to accompany the bourgeois welfare as there grows older? What does the Minister think this is going to mean that every year every year between a whole and a half billion people will be missing in the municipalities with the economic policy that the Minister's own government is proposing to lead in the years to come? Now we are not talking about the previous financial laws, where the Danish People's Party has carried money for the elderly area in the negotiations, but the line that the Minister's own government stands for, where there will therefore be a gap between a whole and a half billion a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175558	This government is giving priority to the area of the elderly. We have shown this repeatedly in the last financial laws, and we will, of course, continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175610	Thank you. So there are no more brief comments. I would like to thank the older rapporteur and we shall give the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175624	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the debate. Once again, I would like to acknowledge that we will have the opportunity to debate this matter. I would like to thank the authors for focusing on a very important issue in which we all have an interest. As I said in my introductory speech, intensive work is being done all the time to ensure both adequate applicants for social and health education and, above all, the development of good, relevant, high-quality education. That work has been going on for a long time. This is done in dialogue with the KL and the professional committee, and I can promise that this work will continue, because we must ensure that there are sufficiently trained with the right qualifications and competences to address the needs of the future, thus helping to ensure the welfare of the individual and of the weak groups and the elderly in general. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175710	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175713	Thank you. I would like to ask the question I put to the rapporteur of the Left. She was kind enough to refer to the ministers, and I would now like to ask the Minister about this discussion about what it means for the sosu schools to be able to combat apostasy, where, within a period of time, they have to save a total of 140 million. kr. because of the re-prioritisation contribution. Is this going to look at the economy of the Sosu schools and the quality of education, and then the fight against apostasy for those students who actually enter the programme, to be part of the mapping that the government is now setting in motion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175750	Let me just see if I have understood the rapporteur's question correctly, but the very limited saving that fell into this financial law should have no effect whatsoever on apostasy. When I talk to sosu students, they put the emphasis on things like transparency in their education, that there are some teachers who are aware of them and that they can see a course ahead of them. I think it is very important to agree with some of the aspects of the structure of education when you have chosen an education, namely that adults make sure that there is a course that makes sense and that you can see for yourself. At least that's one of the things I hear from the young people. And that should certainly be possible within the current framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175838	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175839	I can hear that we have two ministers, each of whom thinks that many of the answers are already there, and that is so wonderful if it can also be confirmed in the survey, where I assume that other players will also be asked, for example. also ask the sosu schools and the employees who work in everyday life with apostasy here. So let's not go into it any more now, I'm sure we can get something elaborate in writing from the government, when you've sort of created the framework and the terms of reference for this mapping. So let me just ask here at the end whether the Minister of Education can tell us any time horizon here. We have had to wait more than a year in the past for a working group set up by the Minister for the Elderly. I very much hope that we can get some indication that it's not that long we have to wait for this mapping.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417175925	Thank you. Now I don't know how the Minister for the Elderly feels, but I don't like putting words in my mouth. I haven't said anything about the answers already. There is much that can be done with the current level. That doesn't mean it's good enough. We can easily screw up the incentives so that young people in general have even more desire to choose vocational training. We can do that, and we are working on it. We are in the process of analysing what opportunities there may be for strengthening vocational training even more. We can also do this by considering the practical/professional subjects even more in the training. We have promised one another in the public school circle that we will do so. So there are also answers ahead. We have to work with them together across parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180007	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180009	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. Now I have to be careful about putting words into the Minister's mouth, but I think the Minister said in his rapporteur's speech that internships are a must, and the Minister then said that there was a lack of, among other things. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he intends to follow up on that part. The second question I would like to ask is what ideas the Minister has taken on the matter of mapping and what it should contain, and precisely in relation to involving several ministries of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180052	Thank you very much. That is absolutely correct. I said that internships are important and that there must be a link between supply and demand, and among other things. That is why we think it would be sensible to appoint this training in favour of training, because it is the case that benefit education is both a way for the social partners to bind each other up, that there is something particularly important here, but it is also a signal to young people that there are opportunities here. So it's a perfectly obvious thing to do. In relation to the survey, the analysis, or whatever we would call it, we have started, and we are doing so together with the Danish People's Party, and of course we are constantly discussing with our collaborators how we should organise the analysis so that we get a picture of the challenges that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180138	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180139	I am thinking of that too, of course, of other ministries of the Council of Ministers, because that is, of course, what we have to do here in a multi-disciplinary way. I would like to hear from the Minister what the Minister himself thinks the survey should contain in relation to precisely ensuring that there are also internships and that we ensure that there is a good framework for those who have to take the training. Now it is many years since I myself took the training as a helper and assistant, so I think that a lot has happened since then, but then we had three internships, were out in three internships, both in the somatics, in the psychiatry and in home care, but it is also about how we organise the framework for the students who are going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180221	Now I am a minister at the moment and not a consultant, as I have been in the past, and that is to say that I am not doing the actual mapping. It's some people who are beating up at what's doing it. And they go out and examine what supply and demand look like, which screws are to turn on, and then they present it to us politicians so that we can look at what we think the solution should be. So how exactly the actual mapping is being prepared, we have very talented officials to handle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180250	Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180251	We have a great challenge in getting more people to take a sosu education. If the Minister was faced with a young person today and had to give him his warmest recommendation in relation to taking a sosu education, what would the Minister say?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180311	I would say that it is an education that allows one to work with care, work with people. I myself have had the pleasure of working for a period in a nursing home, a psychiatric nursing home, and it is rewarding in everyday life to be able to work with people, to be able to make a difference and to experience the proximity that is in relation to citizens. So I strongly recommend that. Then it is also the case that a great deal of technology has been introduced in the field of so-su training. It's been moving a lot since I was young and chosen education. This means that if you are interested in technology and modern ways of dealing with things, there is also ample opportunity here to unfold.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180351	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180351-2	Thank you. It was actually very nice to hear this commitment from the Minister, in terms of why it is so important to take a sosu education and what can be done. We have also set up something called a sosu-eux, and it has to be said that there can be an unsolvable potential in terms of getting more people to look for sosu education as an eux, where you not only get proof that you have taken the sosu training but also get the gymnasium level. I would like to ask the Minister what we can do to get more people to go that way instead of choosing high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180428	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180429	After all, I have a very great love for the eux, which I sometimes with a glimpse in my eye tend to call the Eud Frogman Corps. Well, it's hard work to take an eux, but it's also rewarding because you get both a delivery note and a hat, and it's a great opportunity for many young people. You should also know that if you go into the eux, it is the case that you not only have to get by in the book; you also have to get by in the practical-professional. But it will be exciting for some young people to go that way, and we are constantly working on strengthening the eux. And you can imagine that there is also a potential to strengthen it in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180508	Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180509	Thank you, Minister. What will the Minister say to the mayors who will come to the Minister and say: let me tell you, we have a lot of women with a different ethnic background and we think this is a great solution? Could the Minister say that we are making some kind of light to get them into the older sector because there is a need? Or will the Minister's answer to the mayors be that women will have to go through the education system like everyone else?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180536	Yes, I would say that women of different ethnic backgrounds are not dumber than all sorts of others, and therefore, of course, they should not be treated as such either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180546	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180547	It is good to hear it from the Minister, because you get a little feeling that there are some mayors who think so little that now we have many women with a different ethnic background who have this social attitude, and then maybe we can just put them into the older sector in an easy and simple way. But as I can hear from the Minister, they must be up-qualified like virtually everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180615	Of course they do. In other words, citizens, no matter where they come from or what hair color they have, enter the education system on the same terms. In other words, obtaining qualifications can be hard work. On the other hand, it pays off, in this case, by getting a rewarding job with a good salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180627	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180628	Thank you. Does the Minister of Education think that it is an appropriate situation when one sector, namely the regional sector, can limit the supply of work by another sector, in other words in the municipal area, or will the Minister work to ensure that the municipal authorities can of course recruit the people they need, regardless of how many trainees other sectors might wish to take in?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180656	It will be very technical, that is, how to move through education. It could be one of the places you had to look at. But it is also the case that when there are the elements in the training there are, they are there for a reason. That is because there are some things that we want to show the young people and that we think are important they understand. It must therefore be up to a professional analysis whether the elements of the training can be rebuilt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180718	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180719	After all, it is one of the ways to go, that is to say, that you can build on the training. One way could be for the governments to take this so seriously that they used some of the tools they have to get the regions to take their share of responsibility on themselves, for example. in the context of an economic agreement. Is this something that the government is willing to say, so that this problem is actually so great for our future welfare society that we will press the regions to take their share of responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180744	I do not have enough knowledge at this stage to see what it is then for some handles that would be the best. But when you are in a situation where there are people missing, who are taking a certain education we have tried that many times in history; then there has been a shortage of doctors, then there have been lack of engineers, and then there has been a lack of one and the other and then we try to look at what we can do. And I don't have the complete overview of which handles would be the best. I have mentioned some of them and some of the things we are doing. However, with regard to what the rapporteur says, I simply lack yet more knowledge to see whether it would be the right tool in relation to other tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180819	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. And I should just like to ask whether the rapporteur for the questioners wishes to speak at the end of her term of office. Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180839	I just want to say humbly thank you. I'm a really, really happy DF today. I would like to thank you for being able to bring the whole parliament together on this proposal for adoption, because it is so important that we act in this area so that we ensure more warm hands for the care of the elderly. So thank you for that. I look very much forward to further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180904	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposal for adoption will not take place until Thursday 19 April 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180936	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417180937	Thank you. This proposal, just as the President also said, aims to reduce the electricity tax, and this is something that has been agreed in the agreement reached by the government with some other parties, among others. Radical Left and Danish People's Party, back in November. In isolation, it is a good idea to reduce the tax on electricity for heating, and this is because we need to use more of our green power in some of the places where we use black energy or other fuels today it could be in the heating sector. That is why the Social Democratic Party is also in favour of a targeted reduction in a tax which stands in the way of the green transition. That was also the reason why the Social Democratic Party agreed to bring forward this reduction so that it will take effect more quickly, and we are, of course, still behind it. I would say that, unfortunately, this is only part of the solution because it is intended to ensure, for example, that you invest in heat pumps in district heating, but there is no one who is yet jumping up and investing in a heat pump that lasts for 20 years because there is a low tax for two years. That is why we have a joint, bottom-up task in the forthcoming energy agreement or where the negotiations now have to take place: to ensure a permanent tax reduction in this area, so that we actually ensure that we use the green current in our heating sector. With the comments that we are not finished yet, the Social Democratic Party supports the targeted reduction in the tax, because it is in fact also part of the green transition and a step on the road in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181134	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181141	Thank you. As I have said, this draft law is about reducing what is called the electric heating tax. It is part of the business and growth agreement from last year, which Dansk Folkeparti was part of. And as Mr. Jens Joel also said, it has been brought forward with a later agreement with a little more parties. The Danish People's Party is part of both agreements, so we naturally support the bill. It is very good to get something done about the electric heating charge, as it helps a green transition in Denmark and helps to promote electrification of the district heating supply, and it also provides an incentive to use surplus heat to a greater extent, which may also be very much needed. And then there is the added advantage of it that it provides cheaper heat for the Danes, which also makes good sense. We also believe that this is something we need to look at more in the forthcoming negotiations on an energy reconciliation, because it makes great sense that we use electricity more in our heat supply and, in general, use electricity more instead of fossil fuels. After all, we have a large amount of renewable energy, which is really positive, and the question has been how we get more out of that energy for many years, and there it is at least one of the answers here. I do not think it will solve everything because it is, after all, a limited reduction that is happening with this, but it is, after all, a step in the right direction, and we in the Danish People's Party think that is really positive. That's why we warmly support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181313	Thank you. And there are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I do not immediately see any rapporteur from the Left, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181345	Thank you. After all, this proposal is about a reduction in the electric heating tax resulting from the agreement reached on 12 November 2017 on a business and entrepreneurial package. After all, it is a package that contains many boring elements, not least cuts on DSB. It is a package which means that something is being taken from the disposal room, which should actually have been used for welfare, but which is now being used on other things, among other things. some inequality-building initiatives in relation to a share savings account, which is also a tax rebate that benefits those who have the most unilaterally, in the same way as we have seen in many other initiatives that this government is behind. The electricity tax must then be reduced, and we really do feel that it is generally positive, in the sense that it will do something like heat pumps more attractive and promote the use of surplus heat in companies. However, it would also be advantageous in the way that has been chosen to link it up, because it is a general reduction, that it would also be beneficial to those who use ordinary electric heating, i.e. electric radiators. So the reduction can also contribute to lower heating costs for households with electric heating in this way. If it were us who should have made this proposal, we would have made a more targeted solution to ensure that households with electric heating choose a heat pump solution for their heat consumption. In fact, there is also the problem, and perhaps that is where the agreement is precisely with the general approach and with the amounts set aside, that it does not solve the problem of heat pumps in the collective energy supply, in other words in district heating, as Mr. Jens Joel also mentioned it. This is another issue, however, which shows that the way one has chosen to do it is not particularly targeted. A general reduction in the electricity tax does not seem reasonable to us in this way, but it is certainly clear to us that the question of energy taxes will, of course, be an important part of the future energy agreement. You can see this problem in a number of ways. It can certainly be seen that some of the funding that contributes to this comes from some sources of funding that we absolutely do not like. The very way it is screwed up, we do not think it is targeted enough either. So, overall, we don't think this bill and the way it's screwed up is the best way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181651	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181656	Thank you. I am very pleased today, and I am, because I have been allowed to be rapporteur on the treatment of L 217 instead of the normal tax rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. The proposal is, of course, about tax reductions in the energy sector and, as the Liberal Alliance's energy rapporteur, I think I can, without saying too much, reveal here today that the Liberal Alliance will also be very concerned about lowering taxes in the forthcoming energy negotiations. The proposal here lowers the electric heating tax by 15 øre from 1 May of this year to the end of 2019. By 2020 it will be further reduced by 5 cents, and the electric heating charge will then be permanently reduced, but only by 10 cents, from 2021 onwards. It is always nice to be the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance when tax reductions can be implemented, which then also makes it cheaper to be a Dane. But it is also an important step towards a more efficient energy sector in Denmark. We have the challenge in Denmark that while we have converted our electricity generation to very much come from wind turbines, the demand side has not really followed. A large part of the wind energy produced cannot be used, and this is reflected in very low electricity prices outside the peak periods. Yes, we often have to pay to get rid of the excess electricity. And if it is to make sense to have such a large wind capacity as we have in Denmark, then we also have to switch the downstream side so that the electricity produced can be used to a greater extent outside the peak periods. Here, among other things, can be found. After all, heat pumps play an incredibly important role. In the Climate Council's latest report on the transition towards 2030, an overview figure shows that individual heat pumps have great potential to facilitate the transition towards 2030. On top of that, it is a very cheap socio-economic path to go down, and increased use of large heat pumps is also estimated to have a great potential up to 2050 and be socio-economically cheap. So it is obvious to me that with the proposal here we can bring more balance into the Danish energy sector, both for the sake of all the Danes' purse and for the sake of climate, and that is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181933	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181941	Thank you. Now the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says that it will be very important for the Liberal Alliance in the forthcoming energy negotiations to reduce taxes. I'd like to know if Mr. Carsten Bach can mention something else that is important for the Liberal Alliance in the forthcoming energy negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417181953	There are many things that are important for the Liberal Alliance in the forthcoming energy negotiations, among others. I would call it a 180-degree turnaround of the 2012 agreement, which is far along the way such a planned economic technology-specific state aid for wind energy. We would very much like to have a fight with that and move towards something that is more technology-neutral. This is among other things. one of the things that the Liberal Alliance will also be concerned about in the forthcoming energy negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182030	Sir. Jens Joel apostates. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur, and then we move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr President. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182038	Thank you. Several rapporteurs have explained very well many of the essential elements, and I would actually just like to draw a few out and then make a final comment. I very much agree with Mr. Jens Joel, when he tells us that a permanent arrangement will be more interesting, and it has to be somewhere else to get to the • this is a good impact. In relation to the negotiations we took part in at the time, I was able to see that the Radicals have set a good footprint in order to ensure, among other things, that they do not. this in the agreement, and that is something that can be achieved by saying 'yes' to a compromise. The compromise was too big for us, so we could not be in the agreement, but there were many good elements in the agreement that this is part of. I would like to thank the Radicals and those who have perhaps also supported this agreement in the agreement itself. The reduction in taxes here is excellent, but we need a permanent arrangement, and I think it is a good thing that we are getting a drop here, but we look forward in the alternative to being invited to negotiations on a new energy agreement. And the more drip that comes, the harder it can be to do something really changing in the deal that is then invited in. So, while we are happy about this, we also hope that there will not be too many drips before we reach negotiations where more will be invited, because then, like fence posts, there may not be so much to come after. We would like to see some radical changes in terms of creating a better green transition. My consideration of the bill, which I said I would make, is perhaps in relation to the initial one, where it says that we will make it cheaper to be a Dane, and then we will ensure a green transition, because it is perhaps a paradigm that we need to talk a little more about. I mean, does it really have to be cheaper to be a Dane? It's probably not very popular to say it has to be more expensive to be a Dane. But imagine, if for a time there is a need to make it more expensive to be a Dane on a few points, so that in the long term you will have a richer world, a richer everyday life, a richer nature, whatever it may be. So I think we should be careful to use the expression that it must be cheaper to be a Dane, while at the same time saying that we must also ensure a green transition. For in the long term I fully agree with that, it will be both better and cheaper and much less costly to create a green transition at home. But it requires investment in the short term. So it's not that we want to make it cheaper to be a Dane that we do this and say yes to this component of the agreement and reduce taxes. It is simply because we believe that in the long term it is quite right to create a green transition both here and internationally. I do not want to say that it is counterproductive that it should be cheaper to be a Dane when we are making green conversion, but in the short term it is essential that we do not blind people and say that it does not require investment. You can hear that from time to time if you are not very open about the fact that it takes massive investment to make the right thing for Denmark when we are going out also worldwide and retain the leading position we have in the green transition. As long as we are not all going to think that the green transition is the most important thing in the world, but is not really ready to invest. That would be a shame, because then we will lose a bit of credibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182346	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182348	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the rapporteur's speech and also for the support for reducing the electricity tax. One thing I didn't quite understand was that the only thing you were a little opposed to was that it would be cheaper to be a Dane and that, on the contrary, it might be almost more expensive to be a Dane. I was just wondering if the rapporteur could not elaborate on what areas it is rather than be more expensive to be a Dane. I really think that this is just to the right with one positive case, so you get more incentive to get something out of the surplus heat from companies and to get more from a green switch • many of the things that I have actually noticed that the alternative is in agreement with. Then why is it necessary that it should be more expensive to be a Dane when, as a starting point, you really think that it is one positive thing that is in this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182430	It is just before I say that it was bait to get this question that I said it. I think it is essential that we are transparent as politicians when we adopt legislation and when we advocate political positions. There I think it is crucial to say that if we maintain that for a shorter period of time for some reason it will be cheaper to be a Dane and that is very pleasing but in the long term much, much more expensive for us, either because we erode our nature and environment or because we erode our welfare system or whatever it may be, it is infinitely unimportant for us in the Alternative that in the short term it becomes cheaper to be a Dane. It was probably something I would have written as a textwriter in an advertisement for Netto or somebody else, but not when we talk about what the green transition is for. That is why I should like to say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182518	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182520	Thank you. But I do think the good thing is that all parties in the Danish Parliament would like a green transition... we need to take better care of our climate... and that's really positive. But if it also becomes cheaper to be a Dane at the same time, if you're greener that's the conclusion of this; it's just cheaper to be green than to be black, if you can put it that way, in terms of energy, it's positive, isn't it? Then it's funny that you almost get the argument for the opposite in that you have to understand that it actually has to be more expensive. Here it is a higher unit, one might say, that it is both green and cheaper. That is surely the aim of a good green transition, namely that we can actually do it in this way, and I really do not think there is any reason to argue against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182600	No, I fully agree, and we also agree to the bill. I just think it is essential, when we talk about green conversion, that budgets should be included in the short term so that in the long term it will be a really good business. In the short term, this bill is also in my view a good business, and it certainly does not matter that it will be cheaper to be a Dane. However, I think it is generally a pity that in politics we often forget to let investments follow the big vision. It may be here, it may be in the IT area where you see a large package being presented, and then there is not really any investment with. If it is a change that is needed in order for it to be good in the long term, then I would rather it be said immediately rather than afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182639	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182640	Thank you. I would like to follow up on my colleague's question, because I have suffered the same amazement. If you lower the electric heating charge and there is a Dane wondering whether he should have a new guy or a heat pump, then the calculation will be better for the heat pump than for the new oil boiler, and thus he has a greater incentive to take the green solution. Isn't it just to solve something in relation to the green and to make it cheaper to be a Dane? One might say that choosing the green solution makes it more attractive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182710	Yes, and it may be that I said it vaguely. Well, in isolation, we think this bill is really good, and that's why we say yes. But I think it is important to point out that it is not an end in itself for the alternative that it should be cheaper to be a Dane when we talk about green conversion. In the long term, of course, it must be both cheaper, better and more interesting and sustainable to be a Dane when we invest properly in the green transition. But this bill says that you do this because, among other things, you do it. then becomes cheaper to be a Dane. That is not the incentive for us. We are willing to impose taxes on consumption in general. That is to say, if I were to stand and say that it was to make it cheaper to be a Dane when we were making green conversion, then I would not be transparent and honest. Because we are willing to impose taxes on all kinds of consumer goods, not least on energy consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182754	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182756	Yes, the rapporteur made it sound as if it were a negative thing that it would be cheaper to be a Dane. Is it because you would rather compensate for some high taxes at the same time, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182805	I think this is mostly a rhetorical discussion. I think a rhetorician would agree that's not what I said. I said that it is important to point out, both as a voter and as a politician, that if we say that it should be cheaper to be a Dane, it is certainly important to say whether it is in the short term or the long term that we are talking about. In this specific case, we agree that it's just nice that it's cheaper for the Danes and that it's nice that we have a green transition. I spoke in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182830	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417182837	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Alternate. René Gade for the rose that his speech started with. Because it is true that in the autumn it was one of the main concerns of the Radical Left when we negotiated business initiatives to get this tax off the ground. That is why, of course, we are happy to support the draft law. It is the case that for a number of years, through tax dollars, we have had more power from renewable energy, and we have had great success with this, we have built a huge sector that creates a lot of jobs, and today a lot of power is CO2 But then it is also weary not to use that power to make heat or transport. And this has something to do with our taxes in particular, because for a great many plants producing heat, it is simply cheaper to choose fuel where you burn some of it. And that alone has something to do with the charges. Because if you look at it economically from the point of view of society as a whole, it would be a good idea to use some of the power we have produced ourselves. And for the climate, it will mean that you will not get greenhouse gas emissions, and for the environment it will mean that you will not get particulate pollution, that is, if you could not burn some of it and instead use the power we have produced with renewable energy. Therefore, it is a good idea to lighten this tax because it will make it more profitable for the individual plant to use power to produce heat instead of burning something off. That is why it was a matter for us Radicals, and that is why we are pleased to be able to give our support to the draft law here today. And we also hope that the forthcoming negotiations on an energy agreement can make this relief permanent so that we can really invest from it. Because in this draft law it is only for a number of years that it will be relieved. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417183043	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417183048	The bill is a implementation of the government's growth package of November 2017, which was made together with the government parties of course and DF and Radicals. It was not a package we on the part of the SF were very excited about on the whole, because it was a package that was financed in a very biased way: money was spent from the room, which otherwise should have been used for welfare, there was a round-shavening of DSB, and there were tax rebates for the already most wealthy. In fact, an inventory showed that it was one of the most skewed initiatives that had been taken for a very, very long time. However, one of the good elements of the package was the proposal for a reduction in the electricity tax, which we are discussing today. But I also have to say that it is simply not a way of making agreements, as has been done by a government, when you make an agreement with a party on PSOs. We went in and negotiated an agreement which we did not really support, we wanted a different result, but we went into the negotiating room to make the agreement better in a more green direction, as we saw it and then a revenue was created, and there is the general gentleman's agreement in the Folketing and in our parliamentary system, that the money will then be put into effect together later, and then it does not look like anything to spend that money in a very, very skewed entrepreneurship package a few months later. Then I've said it, and it's no surprise to the tax minister that I feel that way. This merely creates a precedent, and if, on another occasion, an agreement was to be reached where there were many knots, but where it was said that one would try to draw it in a better direction, that is to say that one's mandates should work, would one be able to trust that an agreement was an agreement? I think that is a pity, because, despite our political differences in this area, we should be able to rely on the fact that when we make an agreement, it is also the case. This proposal, however, is on many stretches very well. A lower tax on electricity for heating will help to promote the spread of heat pumps and displace fossil fuels from the heat supply, and it is also important, as several have mentioned, that we have a lasting reduction in the heating tax, and that is something that we naturally also expect in the forthcoming energy negotiations and in the project presented by the government to be given a central role. Then there is also the whole question of surplus heat from the industry, which several of the consultation answers also mention, namely that district heating companies using the excess heat from the industry in heat pumps are subject to a surplus heat tax, which is quite crazy, and that is something that we will also look at in the agreement. I have some questions for the Minister that I will ask when he comes up here, but despite the fact that the process has been incredibly unsightly and we cannot in any way support the autumn package of which this is part, we have also agreed with the government that we would like to support this individual proposal, because we think it is important, and that is why we will also vote in favour and hope that the spending of some money that has been found in the community will not develop into a bad habit. But we support the proposal. I agree with my colleagues from both the Social Democratic Party and the Enhedslisten that it could be knitted better together, but in the many answers given by the Treasury and from the tax minister to the consultation parties, the repeated answer is always: we look at that in the energy negotiations. So there are many loose ends that need to be tied together when we first sit around the negotiating table, and we look forward to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417183516	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417183523	Thank you very much. This is a really good bill. As several rapporteurs have already said, we are lowering the electric heating tax, as we agreed in the context of the business and entrepreneurial package. In addition, however, we are also advancing the tax reduction so that it will already apply from 1 May. So it's really good. Our electricity is becoming greener and greener, which is why it is also important that we politically support a process in which we gradually increase incentives to create increased electrification of our society, so that we can replace energy sources that use fossil fuels, with energy sources that are electric and so that we can make better use of the production we have of electricity. Compared to the reductions in CO2 such a thing as housing we are really busy. With the agreement that we have reached widely in the Folketing on the reduction of the electric heating tax, we also increase the incentives for households and district heating plants to convert and use the green electricity further. And that is, of course, the lead we must continue along, because that is the way to achieve the green transition. Of course, it cannot be left alone, so we must also constantly focus on how to make our current greener and greener. And here we are well on our way, but we are not there yet. The Conservative People's Party has helped to set ambitious targets for the green transition in Denmark, and we must of course stick to them, and we must ensure that we gradually achieve our final goal, which is that Denmark should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. It is important that we achieve this goal without being more expensive to be a Dane. And with the proposal that we are dealing with now, we are actually achieving both. It will be cheaper for households and for Danes to heat their homes with electricity, while at the same time we use the excess heat better for heating and we move Denmark in a greener direction. So, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417183738	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417183744	Thank you and also thank you for allowing me to come on, although for once I misinterpreted how long it took before I came on. As many people have already said, this bill is about lowering the electric heating tax, and I have become aware that not all people may be fully aware of what the electric heating tax is. See, the electric heating charge is the tax rate for the electricity used to heat a house, and it can be both heat pumps and to heat the water up. So this means that it benefits ordinary Danes and it increases the incentive to invest in getting heat pumps in the house or in district heating. Because that's what we're lowering the tax with. Exactly how much do we lower the tax? Well, we'll lower it by 15 cents from 1 May of this year, i.e. if not very long and then until 31 December 2019, compared to how much it is today. From 1 January 2020 until 31 December 2020, the electric heating tax will then be reduced by 20 cents compared to what it is today. Then it changes again so that it is only reduced by 10 cents forward from 1 January 2021, compared to what it is today. So it is a lowering forward, which is not limited, but it is not as big as it is at first. For the Left, it has been really important that we have had a reduction in the electric heating charge... we are really happy with this solution... and it has been for several reasons. One is that it helps to make it easier for Danes to choose the green solution, the heat pump at home or to heat up renewable energy instead of fossil fuels. The second is that at the same time it also helps to make it cheaper to be a Dane. We think that both are two very good things, i.e. that it both makes Denmark more green, but that the Danes also have more money for themselves. The tax reduction means that for an ordinary parcel house heated with heat pumps, as early as the end of 2018, 650 DKK will be saved. on the heating bill. It's such an average figure from the Treasury, and it's pretty good this year already. So we think this is a really, really good solution that both helps the Danes and ensures that we get more green energy. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184010	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we give the floor to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184016	Thank you. After all, there is not so much more to say than what the rapporteurs have said about the presentation of the draft law, and of course I fully agreed with the latest rapporteur. The last rapporteur is usually the Conservative rapporteur, but in this case it was then the rapporteur of the Left, and I fully agree with the arguments put forward on the legislative proposal that we are dealing with now and the facilitation of the electric heating tax, which has been proposed and which helps to support the green transition. In relation to the debate, there has not been a great deal of debate. There have been some questions about the alternative, and I do not want to deal with them, because they were not with me as a minister. I have to say to the SF rapporteur that I have, and I have done so, and the Minister for Finance has also acknowledged that it could have been done more beautifully, and we have had a discussion on this, and we have reached agreement on a better process another time. Having said that, I am pleased that the SF can also support the proposal. The only party that then does not support the proposal is the Enhedslisten. I had hoped that the day would come when Mr. Rune Lund could support one of the government's tax concessions, and I do not really understand it when it is also a green tax relief that in this way both ensures that it is cheaper to be a Dane, but also supports the green transition. But I hope I'm an optimistic person... that one day the government will succeed in getting a tax relief that we can get Enhedslisten to vote for, and we have more things on the drawing board. So I guess that day will come before the parliamentary term runs out. However, with the words in which my last remark has been made with a glimpse in my eye, I would like to thank you for the discussion here today and look forward to future committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184222	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184225	Thank you. In the consultation form received from the Ministry of Taxation, the Ministry of Finance writes in a reply to HORESTA that a dialogue is being initiated with the European Commission on the possibility of a targeted reduction in the hotel's space heating charge for both electricity and fossil fuels. Why the last of it? We need to move our energy consumption from the black to the green.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184256	After all, there has been a desire from the tourism industry in relation to the space heating tax, which particularly affects the hotel industry, where you are in competition with a number of neighbouring countries, where they have differentiated VAT rates in the tourism and hotel industry and a number of other competitive advantages that make it more attractive to hold conferences in Sweden than in Denmark or south of the border instead of north of the border in relation to our German neighbours. Therefore, they have a desire to improve their framework conditions, and one of the elements is to get relief from the space heating tax. So far it has been thought that we could not, but now it turns out that we may be able to do so within the framework of EU rules. Then, of course, it is a political discussion whether to do so and where to find the money for it. When you examine both, it is because we cannot unequivocally separate the green energy from the non-green energy. Things are flowing together a little, and I think that is why we are examining it together, and there is no desire to support through the toll route that hotels should use fossil fuels rather than green renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184404	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184405	I understand what the Minister said. It was just the wording that was interesting, i.e. that one considered reducing it for both electricity and fossil fuels. But I have another question. All VAT-registered companies are reimbursed most of the taxes on energy, as energy tax for what is called process purposes can be refunded down to 0.4 cents per year. kilowatt-hour. As far as process purposes are concerned, this means that companies will receive energy almost free of charge, or in another way, of course, they will be taxed virtually down to zero. Is that fair? Why don't we get back together? Should companies not also contribute to process purposes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184459	I believe that there is a professional recommendation of this in the tax department's AT analysis, and I also believe that the Environmental Economic Council and certainly the Climate Council, which is generally a little too enthusiastic about tax increases, point to that. That is not the policy of the government because we have a tax freeze and because there are also other considerations than the concern for the green transition. We must be green and we must support the green transition, but we must also ensure that our industry does not move out of the country to countries where there is no energy tax or where it is much lower. So in this respect, we in the government do not find it attractive to increase the fee for process purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184538	Then it's mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184540	Thank you. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who said that there is a permanent, but a little less, tax reduction in this. And that's right, too. But I also believe that the tax minister will agree with me that nobody buys a heat pump, for example, because it is almost so that we have to get it done in such a way that it will pay off in the future and that you can actually expect that it is not just for the next two years, it is a good business. Then the tax minister can't say anything about how much relief should be permanent, so that we sort of break the basket and get the right incentives so that we get the heat pumps in?
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184621	Well, I can say that I bought a heat pump myself, and it was of course about the desire to use less energy for heating because it is energy efficient, but it was also about that it was a good business. I think that if you are to support the green transition, it can of course be driven by ideals and visions and desires, in terms of what is good for the climate and for the world, but it is also important that it is economically a good business. If it is a good business for the individual, it is certainly not to the detriment of the green transition. Where exactly the point of fiction lies, I cannot and I am sorry to reply to that here from the platform, but of course I would like to give a written answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184701	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184702	That's fair enough. I have a heat pump in my house in Aarhus, but now I don't get a reduced charge on it, because it runs over the same electricity bill as my light and refrigerator and something like that because I haven't registered it as a heater. I was, of course, in search of whether the tax minister is going to make the level, if I may say so, of this agreement permanent. But if we are to take it either in writing or later, we have to wait in excitement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184733	In other words, the government has to present its energy proposal, and when the government, without saying what the content of the energy proposal is • proposes to lower the electric heating tax, it does not come from the fact that we do not think it is a good idea to make it permanent, then it comes from the fact that we have not been able to find money to make the last reduction permanent. That is why it is obvious to tackle some energy negotiations. However, priority must be given to the funds for this in the context of all the other priorities, including the production of eligible green electricity.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184811	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184813	I would just like to make it clear that we are in fact in favour of tax exemptions when it comes to the green changeover, which I think the tax minister knows very well. In fact, in connection with the debate on electric cars, we do not think that there should be registration fees for electric cars, even if it is a Tesla, which can be a very expensive upper-class car • we actually think that it should be exempt from registration fees, but there is another view of the government. So there are certainly examples where we choose the green rather than the red, if you will, but what is our problem is that we do not think it is targeted enough. My question will also be whether the Minister believes that this relaxation will be sufficient to make it profitable to invest in this for a private household. Jens Joel asked the Minister, but the Minister could not answer that because I do not think it will be. The same applies, in fact, to heat pumps in the collective energy supply of district heating. And that's a sign that you haven't done this purposefully enough. Then I also have to finance the growth package, for example. We know what this is, namely a reduction in DSB, and it also affects the green transition; and as far as room for manoeuvre is concerned, it is money which should have benefited welfare, saying that we also have to look at what initiatives are being taken and at the same time look at where the money comes from, and they come from some sources of funding which are deeply problematic, also in relation to the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417184942	Yes, I do recognise that Enhedslisten's view is that electric cars should be exempt completely. What happens is that when the government then presents something, it never represents one party's pure policy, it is a compromise, and there I think that Enhedslisten is good at • Enhedslisten is good at many things • in tax matters to look for the hair in the soup instead of saying that these things are actually moving in the right direction. It is true that it may well be that we need to reduce the electricity tax more in order to make it profitable and that we can make it more targeted, but that is a compromise, and that is what politics is all about. That is why I think it is a pity that the Enhedslisten has decided not to support this resolution. I respect the fact that you want to have the clean goods, and I would also like to have that, but it is unfortunately difficult to get in a parliamentary system with so many political parties as in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417185036	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417185037	But so, Enhedslisten is part of the current energy reconciliation, and there are also things in what we didn't think were optimal, such as. the commitment to biogas. It is not a flower that has grown in our garden, because there is virtually no CO2 in connection with offshore wind farms. So what the tax minister's saying isn't exactly right. But here we are dealing with something where it can be said that the fact that it is not targeted enough could perhaps be lived with, but then there is the funding, which is being drawn from DSB, from a deterioration in employment efforts and from money, which comes from the room for manoeuvre created by the deterioration of, for example, the situation. early retirement and flexible jobs, and which the parties responsible for the deterioration have promised the electorate would be used for welfare, but which is now being used for many different things, for example. This. So it is really in connection with the whole package that you have to make pluses and minuses up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417185132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417185133	Yes, and there are our balance points so different. But I do not agree with the basic premise that something is either tax relief or welfare. If, in a reform, the tax is reduced for everyone who is in work, then it is everyone who is working both private and public employees who are allowed to keep more money themselves. If you do not spend the money on lowering the tax, you can spend it on giving more money to the public employees, and whether you give a tax relief or more in wages to a public employee, then it does have the same effect, except that lowering the tax on work typically has some other dynamic effects. So I do not agree with the premise that Mr. Rune Lund is under the question of whether it is either welfare or tax relief. However, this is a long debate which is also slightly beyond, perhaps not the time we have here today, but perhaps the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417185223	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180417185244	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 18 April 2018, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
