ParlaMint-DK_20181107130008	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education and Research (Tommy Ahlers): Bill no. L 88 (Proposal for a Law amending the Social Security Act and the Law on State Adult Training Aid. Bill No. L 89 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Danish National Research Foundation. Minister for Children and Social Affairs (Mai Mercado): Bill No. L 90 (Proposal for a Law on the Family Court) and Bill No. L 91 (Proposal for a law amending the law on parental responsibility, the law on the conclusion and dissolution of marriage and various other laws. Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 30 (Proposal for a decision to give greater weight to the best interests of the child in matters relating to asylum and residence permits). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181107130109	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 8 November 2018. Before embarking on the explanatory statement of the question, I would like to remind you that, like other questions, it is part of the new experimental system in which the rapporteurs are at the forefront of the Assembly. And I can tell you do. As you know, urgent questions must be settled within two hours. Apart from explanatory statement, replying and rapporteur's speeches and ministerial speeches at the end of the first round, there will be room for approx. 1 hour for brief remarks and answers to these. In this hour of brief remarks, the time for the rapporteurs to make a brief comment of up to 1 minute for each of the two ministers' replies and for their replies has been included as a new feature. This means that I am going to disappoint a lot in the course of the debate when I have to cut short remarks to ensure that we can get through the whole range of rapporteurs within the 2-hour limit. It goes without saying that today it is particularly important for everyone to respect the limits on speaking time. Everything's gonna be okay. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107130252	Thank you. Everyone was shown shocked and surprised by the footage that went over the screen last week from a camp for Filipino drivers in Padborg. After all, housing and accommodation in such a messy and primitive environment are not everyday in Denmark and should not be, just as you cannot live on monthly wages, for example. 6,500 kr. in Denmark or for that matter in other European countries. However, there may not be any reason to be so surprised, for this is not a new phenomenon, and in no less than two consultations in March and October 2017, this problem was raised with direct reference to the fact that the Polish subsidiaries of Danish hauliers announced in among others. The Philippines after drivers, who flowed to Poland and other Eastern European countries, where work permits seem to be hanging and hanging loose. When we now see that cheap drivers from outside the EU suddenly receive a work and residence permit in a Member State and using EU rules for international transport, including cabotage rules and rules for combined and third-country traffic, then also can drive truck transport in, among others. Denmark, then, is not as claimed, because there is a lack of available hands in Europe, on the contrary. There are some 20 million unemployed, including many young people, who would probably like to drive a truck if this could be done for fixed pay and working conditions. Basically, it is not about driver shortages, but about providing as cheap labour as possible. Now Romanians and Bulgarians seem to have become too expensive. Both the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Employment have acknowledged that there is a problem here, but have also referred it to the solution via the European Union and the negotiations currently taking place on the road package. We, and this is the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the SF, therefore propose in our proposal for adoption, which will be read out later, how we think the problem should be addressed in the road package negotiations. However, we have also tried to point out that we can also do something in this country, namely strengthen controls on road transport, including the part that is being carried out by more and more foreign hauliers and drivers in the form of cabotage, combined and third-country services.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107130506	Thank you. Then there is a reply from the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107130515	Thank you for that and thank you for this urgent question on the conditions for foreign drivers. As Mr. Henning Hyllested mentions, is the basic reason for today's debate very shameful. Frightening because it stems from a case where we see foreign drivers piled together in very little space and under conditions that are completely unacceptable according to Danish standards. It cannot be right for us to see such conditions in 2018. I would also like to say from the start of the debate that the government strongly rejects the fact that foreign drivers are living in such conditions. This is totally unacceptable. It is highly questionable that some companies apparently have a business model to exploit and speculate in the rules on free movement at the expense of decent pay and working conditions. It is reprehensible, regardless of whether it is a Danish employee EU citizens or a third-country citizen. For me, it is not the intention of EU cooperation that we should accept smart business designs that give unfair competition to the fortunately many companies that are in order and that ensure their employees decent pay and working conditions. The only good thing to say in this case is that the joint efforts of the authorities between the police, the Labour Inspectorate and the tax authorities on the front are working. The authorities have handled the case, and I am satisfied with that. A joint effort by the authorities is absolutely central, and the other day the action clearly shows this. On the specific case, we know that, as part of the Joint Authority's efforts on 30 October 2018, the police, the Labour Inspectorate and the Danish Tax Administration carried out a joint action on the location of a group of Filipino and Sri Lankan drivers. The company had come to the authorities' eye for tips from 3F, a Filipino media and Center against Trafficking in Human Beings. It is stated that drivers are employed by a Polish subsidiary of a transport company in Denmark. Drivers have explained to the police the terms and conditions of their stay in Denmark, and the police have searched the company's office. No charges have been brought in the case at this stage. The police investigation is aimed at possible trafficking in human beings and against possible violation of the tax control law, and therefore the investigation has not yet been completed. Since there is no work situation or workplace, the Factory Inspectorate has not been able to establish a breach of the health and safety rules in the area of involving drivers. We know about the accommodation conditions themselves that drivers lived in pavilions where eight people had been accommodated per year. Pavilion. They had access to the toilet and bathed in another building in the area, but these were unsanitary conditions. Drivers were in possession of passports, employment contracts and other documents. Now we are just awaiting the results of the specific investigation and what it shows. Of course, however, we need to look at whether our rules and controls are adequate. I would like to start by saying that, as you know, the government is in favour of the free movement of EU cooperation. After all, it is in many ways a gain both for employers and for workers. For me, it is absolutely crucial that Danish companies can recruit the workforce they need, even outside Denmark's borders. It is clear that one wonders why it seems that Poland has laxly granted work permits to third-country nationals on this matter. If third-country nationals stay in the EU and come to Denmark to work, it must be done in a way that does not end up in a situation where there is a breeding ground for illegal labour or social dumping. It is out of the question that work carried out in Denmark must be done under orderly conditions. This means that laws and rules must be respected and companies and employees must accept the rules of the Danish labour market. And we, as politicians, also have the responsibility to ensure a sensible framework for the work of the authorities and thus also the Danish labour market. The social partners are responsible for ensuring wage and working conditions, inter alia: through collective agreements. That is precisely what provides a well-functioning and flexible labour market. So what does the government do to secure orderly relationships? Keyly speaking, since 2012, there has been an effort on the labour market in which the joint authority's efforts play a crucial role. It is an effort which basically has broad support for among the Danish Parliament's parties. I am pleased that all parties in the Folketing usually participate in the quarterly meetings of the Ministry of Employment on the results of the joint efforts of the authorities which are being presented here. The government prioritizes efforts for orderly conditions. We have confirmed this in a large number of financial agreements, and most recently with the 2018 agreement. And then, as part of the ongoing financial law negotiations for next year, we will also significantly strengthen the efforts for orderly conditions where strengthened control efforts are at the heart. The government is giving priority to a number of areas of action, in which I would first like to highlight the joint efforts of the Joint Authority, the Danish Labour Inspectorate, the Danish Tax Authority and the police on joint and coordinated control actions. In fact, joint action has proved to be an effective tool to get hold of companies that do not comply with the rules. The case of Filipino and Sri Lankan drivers is a good example of this. Secondly, control in the field of transport has also been a key element of police action in this area, and control has also been a priority since 2012. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the special supervision by the Labour Inspectorate of major infrastructure projects where there are particular challenges with the working environment. That is, for example, the case. Seen with the subway construction. Fourthly, we have established cooperation with authorities in other countries where we can and must do more to ensure that more foreign companies in Denmark comply with the rules. It's at the moment. concluded agreements with Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Slovakia and Romania to strengthen regulatory cooperation in the field of secondment. In the context of the agreement with Poland, I can inform you that the Labour Inspectorate has already contacted the Polish authorities in order to ascertain whether the company in question in this case is actually established in Poland and is not to be understood as a mailbox company. Fifthly, we have strengthened the RUT register. The RUT register is the focal point of the effort and has been continuously improved both technically and also with more information requirements and controls. Most recently, we have also introduced the possibility for the Labour Inspectorate to issue periodic penalty payments in the situation where a company persistently refuses to join the RUT. I would like to emphasise that the government will continue to develop the RUT register, and we have started work on this, and we will also continue to do so in cooperation with the social partners in the work on implementing the revised Posting of Workers Directive. At the same time, it should be examined whether there is a possibility of developing a specific register solution adapted to the particular circumstances of the transport sector. Sixthly, we have also adopted legislation that implements the EU enforcement directive and that supports the work on orderly matters. In this work, a fund has been set up to ensure the salary requirements of posted workers, and the Labour Inspectorate has been given the opportunity to examine whether foreign companies are actually established in the country of origin or whether they are mailbox companies which abuse the rules on secondment. Seventhly, the revised Posting of Workers Directive, which ensures better conditions for posted workers and which takes account of the fact that salaries and wage formation are a national competence, was adopted earlier this year. The implementation of the directive will take place in close cooperation with the social partners, and in this context I would like to remind you that in October 2017 before the EPSCO Council on, among other things, the Transport Minister and myself. The Posting of Workers Directive had discussions with the rapporteurs of the Transport Committee, the Employment Committee and the European Committee on Posting in the Road Sector. In this context, there was broad support for the government's line that posting in the transport sector should be dealt with in the context of the debate on the road package. In conclusion, I would also like to sign off on the fact that this matter has been highlighted. It is essential, I think, that there is a call for guard when there are critical conditions, so that the authorities are also alerted to this. I have noted that, among other things. 3F has done. I would also like to sign for the authorities' efforts to have acted quickly. At the same time, however, I would also like to call on the employers of the transport industry to speak out on the matter and to contribute to solutions so that we avoid similar cases in the future. A key and crucial element of the Danish model is that the social partners contribute to finding solutions. This is typically the case with an agreement between the parties, as part of a tripartite agreement with the government or as joint recommendations to government and parliament for a possible solution. In the first place, together with the Minister for Transport, I will be holding a meeting with 3F and the employers' organisations on the matter at hand as soon as possible. We hold the meeting to get a dialogue going and to hear what they intend to do to prevent Danish companies from operating as in the specific case. The government gives very strong priority to continued efforts to ensure orderly conditions at home and also at European level, in other words in the EU, where the Minister of Transport will be able to tell you more about the negotiations on the road package. We need to maintain targeted control in those industries where there are, in terms of experience, most problems with regulatory compliance, and we need to ensure consistent and continuous enforcement. That is why, of course, the government intends to invite the parties of the Folketing in a short space of time to discuss the matters which are the subject of the urgent question and which are being discussed here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131442	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131446	The minister mentions a whole series of measures which are believed to have been taken which are certainly also taken in the fight to stem this. Nevertheless, we have to note, and it is not just today, because we have been able to see for a very long time that the problems are still here and that they are really increasing. The situation we're in now with this Filipino camp and the conditions they've been running under is totally grotesque. So we just have to say that the many initiatives and the long time spent on it have not succeeded in getting to grips with the problem. This is where we stand, and that is why we have taken the initiative here, because something has to be done now. We cannot keep talking, nor can we just keep waiting for the European Union. That is why we have both an EU track and a track on increased controls, as the Minister also mentioned, in our proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131558	There's just a brief delay. I don't think it happened anything but a bag or something fell from the gallery. We just need to get this straight. There's no personal injury. There's a nice parliamentary officer taking care of it. Then we can move on. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131621	Thank you. After all, there is no reason to hide the fact that successive governments have taken various initiatives, but we still have to see that there are challenges. You can see that in the way this case is uncovered. Now, sir. Henning Hyllested has not yet had the opportunity to read out the proposal for adoption, which is why it would seem very misplaced for me to conclude on the basis of a proposal for adoption which I have not seen. However, I would like to report now that I do not believe that the proposal for adoption that has been circulated in public will face opposition from the government. But it is of course with the reservation that I do not know whether it has changed since I last saw it. I haven't been part of that dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131707	The incident before, of course, gives me the opportunity to point out that you must be careful when you are in the gallery. We're not gonna have anything in our head, so please be careful. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131721	After all, the minister says that successive governments have taken various initiatives. That's absolutely right. And what is rather spectacular is that, despite the fact that we have seen that there were major problems with social dumping, even of quite grotesque proportions, this government has taken a number of measures which have reduced the controls that should be applied. While under the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government priority has been given to the control efforts on the roads so that we could avoid this kind of social dumping and driving on unfair terms, this government has in fact continuously cut down on this, so there is 40%. less for heavy vehicle control than under the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government. Does the government and the Minister not regret, in view of this quite unfair situation, that savings have been made in such a vital area? It is a relatively few million kroner; it is not something that overturns the national budget. Isn't that the wrong place to save?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131833	First of all, I do not have the opportunity to relate to the 40%. I think that will require further clarification, and it will then have to come in written form from Mr Beazley. Rasmus Prehn. In fact, in the Finance Act that was made in 2018, we have taken further initiatives to counteract a large number of the things that we are seeing now. This is among other things. in relation to the efforts to ensure orderly conditions. But I wouldn't want to hide that from you, too, without being asked that there is a need for increased effort, no doubt about it. There is also a need for even closer cooperation between the authorities. I am almost three times a year hosting a technical review in which we go through the results, and unfortunately there is something to be found. This is in relation to the tax administration's efforts, but for that matter it is also in relation to both the Labour Inspectorate's and the police's efforts. We will also be discussing this with the parties of the Folketing. Although we cannot deal with a proposal for adoption yet, I believe that there is something in the proposal for adoption which will also give rise to discussion with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131934	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107131937	It is a good thing that the Minister will now meet with 3F and do some other things to get this area covered. But what's the reason why it was supposed to take so long? Well, in 2017, I called the Transport Minister twice in consultation on this first time and a half ago, where I told you in full detail what this traffic was all about. I brought advertisements from newspapers in the Philippines, searching for drivers who would then be sent to Europe. I was exposing exactly what was going to happen. It's been a year and a half, and now suddenly something has to happen. Why is it that you didn't react when you got information? They've been open to everyone for the last 18 months and a half.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132014	It is probably not for me to have to deal with what has happened in a conciliation where I myself was not present. I recognise, of course, that I have been a minister in many areas, but after all I have not yet been the Minister for Transport, nor do I have an ambition to be. What I want to make clear here today is that the government is taking this very seriously, very seriously. I myself have repeatedly had the opportunity to invite the members of the Danish Parliament, including from the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing, I have also noted that Mr. Karsten Hønge has been present where we have also had discussions. But I am not in a position to answer what has happened in previous consultations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132051	Thank you. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132055	Thank you. And thank you for many wise words from the Minister. I note that there will be talk of what changing governments have done over time. I know about what the minister here in front of me has done over time, and I can read out what has happened over the ages before that. And what I note is that an effort has actually been made and that it has been taken very seriously. There have been different levels of means of control, yes, that is true, of course, but everyone has taken it seriously and yet the problems continue and may even increase. That, of course, is something I am a little puzzled about. Is the truth not really that the whole concept of social dumping was unknown in Denmark before the accession of a number of Eastern European countries to the EU combined with the free movement of workers? That is one question. The second question is: is it not perhaps time to review the blind worship of the free movement of workers, which has been cultivated by successive governments for many years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132203	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132203-2	If we go back a number of years, I think it was when Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, was also discussing the accession of the new EU Member States to the EU and hence the free movement of workers. I do not think that the consequences of several Member States were discussed there too. However, I do not want to hide the fact that the issue that I think is important in this respect, as this case also demonstrates, is that an EU country acts as an entry into the European market and we see that it is used as an entry ticket to work under conditions where you might be talking about DKK 15. It's an hour. This is precisely a very big challenge, and that is why we also have to deal with the fact that third-country citizens enter the European Union and potentially work in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132304	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for this minister. Then it's the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132317	Thank you. Like the Minister for Employment, I would also like to begin by condemning the conditions under which foreign drivers have been accommodated with a Danish road haulage company in Padborg. I am also impressed by the stories that foreign drivers have told in the press. It is therefore also important for me to emphasise that these are completely unacceptable conditions. I strongly reject them, and this is not something that we cannot and must not accept taking place in Denmark. There is now an investigation into the matter and I am sure that the relevant authorities will fully clarify the matter. I note with satisfaction that the authorities moved out and put an end to the conditions under which the drivers were accommodated by clearing the entire camp area. I see this as a clear proof that the joint action by the authorities in this area has an effect and that we are able to deal with such issues. In my own area as Minister for Building, the building regulations provide for residential buildings, and I note that the provisions of the particular case were not complied with and that the company did not have a building permit for the accommodation used. In other words, what was going on at the company was illegal, and that was put to an end. I am very pleased with that. As the case stands right now, Filipino drivers have probably mainly been operating international transport throughout Europe, and therefore it does not seem to be a question of cabotage. This leads me to the more general issues that have been raised in this case, which are about how citizens from third countries can come to Denmark to do work and whether there is no gap in legislation. To that I can say: yes, there is, but it is not a gap in Danish legislation. It is about the basic rules for the free movement of services in the European Union, in the context of countries' ability to conduct their own immigration policy. If not Poland had issued approx. 600,000 work permits for third countries, including over 65,000 for drivers, we would not have this problem. As Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, it is a condition that I cannot do anything about, but there is something I can do and which I will do and which I have done. It is to ensure that, for example, when it comes. Filippines to Denmark via a Polish work permit and through the free movement of services, then they do so under orderly conditions. During my time as Minister for Transport, we have introduced temporary parking in the state highway works to ensure more orderly conditions, and there have been proposals in this House for significant tax increases for illegal truck parking. At the same time, I have built on the work on better EU rules for the carriage of goods by road that other transport ministers have initiated before me. As Minister for Transport, I have helped to establish the road transport alliance, which is at the heart of raising the Danish priorities in the EU in the ongoing negotiations on the road package. Since the proposals in the road package were made in May 2017, I have travelled around Europe and held meetings with my fellow transport ministers to promote the Danish priorities, which are very clear. We do not want a further opening up of the cabotage market as long as the social differences between the Member States are as great as they are today. We want to see a safeguard against systematic cabotage. We want cabotage rules for combined transport. We want the use of mailbox companies which are created solely to circumvent the rules to be curbed. Overall, we want more fair and equal conditions of competition to be created in the road transport sector. As things stand now, there are also some sensible proposals in the road package. There are, among other things: a proposal to establish a common European register for posting in the field of road transport in the so-called internal market information system, IMI. Here all companies must record a number of information about drivers and vehicles, so it will be possible to check the information when vehicles are stopped in Denmark. It will thus strengthen the scope for control. Now we have to see whether agreement is reached on this proposal this year, and otherwise I am prepared to look into whether we can advance the establishment of such an information system in Denmark. I would also like to mention that when I started as a minister, one of my first cases was a subpoena from the European Commission on the Danish cabotage rules. Here I stood firm on the Danish interpretation, and in April this year Denmark was acquitted of infringement by the European Court of Justice. In both the negotiations on the road package and in the handling of the cabotage case, it has been important for me to have a close and ongoing dialogue with all parties in the Folketing. We have regularly held meetings where we have discussed the Danish position on the various proposals and status of the negotiations on the road package. In fact, we have a meeting on the calendar again next week, Tuesday 13 November. The meeting was put on the calendar exactly on 13 November, because on 12 November I am going to Brussels to meet my colleagues in the road transport alliance, and I therefore have the opportunity to give a very fresh briefing to the transport rapporteurs the following day.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132838	Thank you. I see there was a long way to go. Yes, there was just a minute that I had to stop reading). Yeah, just like that. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132850	Fortunately, the minister says that he also thinks that it is unacceptable conditions under which it has happened. It is, of course, pleasing, and I do not think there are many who can be in doubt about it, but it must be said, nevertheless, that this is happening. Despite all the rules, directives, regulations and what they say, it is going on. The Philippines are actually in Padborg and they are accommodated under the conditions they are and they are driving under conditions that have nothing to do with Danish conditions. Then the Minister says it is a gap in the rules of free movement. It is not a gap in the rules in Denmark. Well, that really questions the European Union and the whole of that free movement. The minister says you can't do anything about that. Well, then it just goes on, and then we're really in the Lord's field. I would also like to know what the Minister means by fixed conditions. Well, one thing is the accommodation conditions, and I think we could quickly agree on that is awful conditions, but another thing is the pay and working conditions that the Filipinos have driven to DKK 15-20. In class, is the relationship arranged?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107132958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133000	We can only ban things once. It was forbidden to set up such a camp, where Filipino drivers were accommodated, and the authorities took action against it, and it was stopped. All sorts of things that are banned today are happening anyway, but what we need to measure is whether the authorities hit it and stop it. And in this case, they did. Then Mr. Henning Hyllested: What about the pay conditions here? Well, sir. Henning Hyllested knows that wage conditions in Denmark are not regulated by rules from the public authorities, but by the social partners and their agreements. So that means that the authorities cannot enforce what Mr. Henning Hyllested may call Danish wage conditions because it is not the task of the authorities in Denmark. It is the task of the trade union movement, and it is the task of the social partners to ensure that the framework that ensures Danish wage conditions in Denmark is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133057	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133102	The Minister says that we can only ban things once, and that is absolutely right. But is it not true that better control is also possible? So, the more you control, the more you are able to catch those places where some break the law. I hope the Minister will agree with that. In this light, can the Minister not regret the fact that the current government has cut back on the resources available to control precisely this, so that it takes longer to find the errors and find the offences that have been committed?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133132	But I'm not aware that the government has cut back on control. This, of course, is also linked to the fact that it is the police that carry out the checks, and I am not the master of the police, but I remember a Finance Act where additional funds were set aside for control and plate scans, etc. at the border. I also remember a Finance Act where we have set aside money to enforce parking rules in the Danish resting places, so that it is not possible to hold there for more than 25 hours, and so that it is not possible to keep your weekly rest of 45 hours there, but instead it must take place in a place where it is lawful to keep your weekly rest. So I don't recognize that this should have been cut down. I have only helped to increase efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133213	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133216	In the past, the Minister for Employment made a very sad announcement, namely that it was a year and a half ago that virtually everyone who cares about this has been made aware that there is this Filipino fin, and with only peripheral interest in the labour market, however, one must keep oneself informed about this sort of thing. But at least the Minister of Transport will remember that we have had the two consultations. This means that a year and a half ago the Minister of Transport was informed that this Filipino fin existed. I explained exactly what was going on in this traffic that was announced in the Philippines. In Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Ukraine it was the same traffic. Why should it be a year and a half before we see that we are taking things really seriously now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133252	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133254	I can inform you that Filipinos acting as drivers were already known in 2013 in Denmark while SF was in government. That was the case with the then Minister for Transport, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, let me know, and later SF had Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr as Transport Minister. So it's not new with the Filipino fin. It's not something that's happened in this government's time. This has happened while SF was in the transport minister's office. This has happened while the Social Democratic Party had the post of Minister for Employment. So the problem exists, and I recognise that, but there are rules on posting for Filipinos working in Denmark. It is then up to us which of the relocation rules we will enforce in Denmark, and in Denmark we have chosen that we do not have rules on salaries that the authorities can enforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133342	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133344	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Transport for the clarification. The Minister mentions something about a common European register that we could use to extend control over, and if that is not possible within the European Union, perhaps we could take the lead ourselves. Can the Minister elaborate on what such a system might look like and how we can act on it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133405	After all, the Minister for Employment and I have to meet with 3F to see how we can help the trade union movement handle the responsibility of the trade union movement to keep track of pay and working conditions in Denmark with the instruments that are the Danish model, where the social partners handle this. There we will listen very openly to 3F's requests whether you could create a register in Denmark that could help with this and under what conditions it would have to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133438	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate itself, and that is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133459	Yes, a great deal of outrage, we must say, and it is certainly a good thing that it can give rise to it, but in our opinion it is difficult to act, and that is why we have taken the initiative at all on this urgent question. Yes, yes, there are negotiations in the European Union and there is an effort to be made here, and yes, yes, it is good that we are participating in the road alliance and are trying to assert ourselves there, but the compromises that I have heard are coming through the Austrian Presidency on so-called bilateral transport and the possibility of loading and loading in connection with transit, without the rules on posting being applied, and that is to say, without driving under Danish pay and working conditions, when it comes to Denmark, sounds quite ominous. So we have not made any progress, just as it will be as difficult and perhaps even harder to enforce the rules as it is today, and we therefore attach so much importance to the application of the rules on posting, that is to say that it is Danish pay and working conditions that are being run by when goods are being transported in Denmark, with the exception of actual transit, where no loading and loading are being held and perhaps also good old-fashioned export driving between two countries. That is what the proposal for adoption states. I will read it out in a few moments and at the same time that Denmark does not give up on this point and, of course, cooperates with the road alliance on it. We think it is an important signal to send out to unscrupulous hauliers, especially those of those who like Kurt Beier Transport, but there are others too, pushing the rules and drivers to the limit. So you get slum camps like the one in Padborg out of that, you get hourly wages of DKK 15-20. in the hour out, you get social dumping out of the worst drawer. But in reality there is nothing new. In no less than two consultations in March and October, as Mr. Karsten Hønge has pointed out that this problem was raised, and the Minister of Transport acknowledged that the more he thought about it, the more he thought it had to be so that Denmark itself decided who should work and drive a truck in Denmark. It is also crazy that because one Member State, in this case Poland, seems to lack drivers, they can open up drivers from other countries outside the European Union. For the time being, it has been 65,000, but with the secondary effect that the drivers concerned, through the EU rules on international transport, including cabotage, combined and third-country services, can drive around throughout Europe, including Denmark, and suddenly there are 100 Filipino drivers in Padborg under slave-like accommodation conditions and into slave-like pay and working conditions. Thus, the European Union's internal market in the free movement of labour has become a free market for the whole world, for all workers around the world, at least when we talk about the driving sector. I do not think that was the intention from the outset, but that is how it has developed, because the single market is the cornerstone of the European Union and is being cheered on by all sides. At the same time, we have closed our eyes to the unfortunate effects, to say the least, of the fact that a number of Member States in Eastern Europe do not set high levels of pay and working conditions and do not have any problems in importing cheap foreign labour into their country. With the proposal for adoption, therefore, we are putting the blame on, on the one hand, the negotiations on the road package in the European Union, in which we stress that Denmark must stand firm on the demand that freight transport in Denmark should be carried out in its many forms as an agreement, as is also stated in the goods transport law, and, on the other hand, on the demand for increased controls on road transport. A total of 15-20 million has been allocated. kr. a year for an extra effort in heavy goods vehicles control, but in the view of Enhedslisten, that amount should at least be doubled, and that, of course, is also a signal to those who are currently negotiating finance law. When the Minister of Transport says that this is not something we can come for and that this is the task of the trade union movement, it is, of course, not right in my opinion. Of course, the trade union movement cannot carry out the task of covering thousands of international transports that cross the border every day, driving around the country and driving out again. That's one of them. That is why we have the law on the carriage of goods, but that is also why we have the rules on the posting of workers, and it is therefore EU rules that we can, of course, also come up with by means of regulatory control. Now I have to read out the proposal for adoption, and it sounds like this: Proposals for adoption In EU negotiations, the government must place decisive emphasis on Danish pay and working conditions in the context of third-country journeys to, as well as cabotage and combined transport in Denmark. The goal is controlled, not free movement! The government must ensure: V 5.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133952	I just want to know who is behind this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107133954	Social democracy, Danish People's Party, Enhedslisten and SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134001	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is, of course, part of the further debate. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134020	20 kroner. in the hour or perhaps even less, overnight on a dirty and hollow foam rubber mattress thrown on the charge of a truck, grotesque, unhygienic conditions both in the toilet and in the context of cooking, forced to work, even if you are ill, denied access to medicine, even though you have been promised the opposite. This has been the reality for a group of Filipino truck drivers in a slum camp in Padborg with the Danish trucker Kurt Beier. The Philippines have been lured here to Denmark on completely false terms. It is the case that Poland has almost had a system import of cheap labour from third countries and has used it here to dump the entire European labour market. This is a totally untenable and unreasonable situation. We Social Democrats will in no way accept this kind of slave-like condition that has taken place in Padborg. We will not accept that what should otherwise be the European Union's vision of free movement has ended up being used for some form of underpayment and undermining of our Danish pay and working conditions. We Social Democrats are concerned that we should have fair movement. Not only must we have freedom of movement, but the way it has developed has taken us one step too far. We are deeply concerned about this. So this is the most creepy kind of social dumping we see in this situation. We therefore find, as we have also indicated in our questions to the government sometimes, unfairly yes, almost grotesquely that the current government has been rather passive in relation to this. Now some fine speeches are being made, and thanks for that, and there are positive words in them, and thank you for that, but the matter is, of course, the one which I have also indicated in the questions I have put to the Ministers that, despite warnings that this was an increasing problem, despite evidence that there was increasing social dumping, the resources for heavy duty vehicles have been reduced. Then it is true that the Minister has taken some new initiatives in relation to accommodation in rest areas, and we have also praised that, and we have also signed up for it here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but the overall amount of resources available for police and other authorities to go out and do control, the whole effort in relation to social dumping, the government has systematically turned down. That is why it is a good reason for us to say that things are not going forward. Priority must be given in this area because, as the Minister has said, nothing more can be banned than once, so what it is about is controlling something more, and then it is a little strange that we have had a situation where we have found that this was a problem which got bigger, and then the government's answer has been that we should rather turn down control. We need to increase control, and there we Social Democrats are very pleased that there is close cooperation with a majority in this Parliament that wants something else. It is a majority consisting of the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party, but also of the Danish People's Party. So a broad alliance in the Danish Parliament, which together with us Social Democrats would like to take this more seriously, which will stop social dumping, which will not put up with slums and which says that we need to have more control in this area all the way through, and that is why we are also pleased with the proposal for adoption that my colleague Mr. Henning Hyllested has read before. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the parties who have participated here for their hard work in finding each other. It is clear that we are parties that are different, yet we have been able to reach a common understanding and it has been a positive experience of the constructive cooperation that lies here. So we in the Social Democratic Party welcome the adoption here and we can see that there are good tactics in terms of strengthening control, but additional pressure must also be put on the work that the government has to do in the European Union to secure a road package that has the elements needed to ensure compliance with the Posting of Workers Directive when driving in Denmark, so as to ensure proper Danish pay and working conditions. The Minister has said several times that it is not us politicians or society who can determine wages, no, we are happy with the Danish model. However, I would like to stress that, after all, there has been a law on the carriage of goods which laid down something in this area, and that is where we have tried, including by a majority in this Parliament, to get the government to restore the legal status that existed before the Supreme Court ruling, and that is where I think that work has gone too far. There the government could take this opportunity to call again and ensure that we have a legal situation that we had before the Supreme Court ruling.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134521	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134524	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn for a dedicated speech. It was almost unstoppable. After all, this is a matter in which there is broad political agreement that what we have seen in Padborg is totally unacceptable and that we want to have orderly relations. That is why I am a little annoyed by what I think I sense, namely that Mr. Rasmus Prehn and perhaps others are trying to make such an edge, painting a picture that the government almost doesn't care about this, but that we others would like to do something. It's a fake picture. As the Minister has told us, it started here in 2013, and then something started to be done. After all, every time illegal acts have been detected, it has been investigated by the police. Well, when you see something illegal, you report it to the police, and then it gets investigated. We have too few roadside checks, yes, we agree on that, and I will go into this in more detail in my rapporteur's speech, but it cannot be said that they have been downgraded by the government. I have seen that there was a broad political majority with, among other things, one of them. Social democracy, which wanted the police to give priority to something else, for example. The fight against gangs etc. Then it takes away the resources you, among other things. can be used for roadside controls. So let us now find common solutions to this serious problem instead of saying: we are some who are a little better than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134633	I am very pleased with the statement by the Left that this issue is also being taken up. I do not want any conflict; I would like to see broad cooperation. That is what we Social Democrats are like. By the way, that's how I know Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, so thank you. But when I draw it up anyway, it is because we have tried to point out that there was a problem and we have tried to point out that it is too bad to turn down the money for this area because there are some errors. That is why I share my frustration with you and point out that we have actually said that it was a pity to turn down the controls on cabotage, for example. That's where the numbers speak for themselves. What I have been told is that, in 2015, when we still had a social democratic government, 27 million were spent. kr. On this one, where you're down to 16 million. kr. So this is a reduction in control in this area. After all, it is not to create a bad atmosphere or to make me disagree with any of those with whom I would like to cooperate, it is just because it is the numbers that speak this clear language. So you've turned it down. And there is a mood in society where you say: Well, of course we have to have arranged relationships, but does it mean so much now? We have seen that there is a large Danish slaughterhouse which has used it here on a fully informed basis. That's why we're gonna have to hit the table and shout, 'cause it's no good treating people like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134745	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134747	We are in complete agreement. One should not be able to speculate about making money on the wretched working conditions of others. We are in complete agreement on that. And then we need to find solutions within the framework we have. On the one hand, we have an EU framework to which we have to relate and which we are fighting together on the Danish side, among other things. In order to improve the road alliance, we will discuss this in more detail in the debate and we will have a Danish law on the carriage of goods, which was also mentioned. But is Mr. Rasmus Prehn does not agree that it applies only to Danish registered trucks, whereas foreign trucks are not regulated by the goods transport law?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134820	That is where we have talked about the Posting of Workers Directive instead, and we have included this in our proposal for adoption. Now it was because the debate came up in connection with a criticism of the Minister, who mentioned that it is also an element that can be addressed. For we also have examples of Danish hauliers who then take the opportunity to drive with lower wages. We could rectify this by having a legal status in the Code of Conduct such as that which existed before the Supreme Court ruling, which says that agreements cannot be required. That would make sense in this area, because there are therefore too many examples of social dumping, and what we need is proper, reasonable Danish pay conditions so that you can support a family and pay your rent when you have a job as a driver.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134858	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. Then it's the next rapporteur, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107134908	Thank you. I note at the outset that there is apparently a certain amount of recycling in the choice of words in the various rapporteur's speeches. It's actually thought-provoking. But my own speech will also emphasise this, because it is shameful to have to stand here today and talk about today's topic. It is shameful because in my naivety I actually thought that slavery belonged to another time and continent, but there I was so wrong. The conditions in Padborg that we have heard about may not be slavery according to the definition of the Danish Language Board, but in practice it is difficult to find a better expression: 200 Filipinos in barracks, which may be described as slums, cooking under unhummy conditions and a general hygiene standard that resembles a Roskilde Festival late Saturday night. The only gratifying thing about the matter is that it has led to debate, among other things. Today, but the unfortunate thing is that there are probably several similar camps in Europe that have not come to public knowledge. Why do I think that? Why am I saying this? More than 108,000 work permits have been granted to non-EU citizens in 2017. In other words, drivers who are hired to companies in Poland or Lithuania and who can then drive legally or illegally will not recover very well throughout Europe. Of course, an EU country will have to get that labour itself if it is deemed necessary. Let's say so. However, the right of EU countries to issue work permits combined with the sacred freedom of movement of workers means that an army of extremely low-paid workers in Europe can virtually legally undermine the entire European transport sector, or rather, the transport industry will succeed, because it is they who are doing the trick of bringing in drivers, but whoever really gets it undermined is the ordinary driver who just wants to work for a decent wage under working conditions that belongs to a civilised world. The ordinary Danish truck driver and probably also the German, Dutch and Swedish truck driver must therefore live in a labour market where he must compete with, for example, a Filipino who, forced by need for months, lives in his cab, goes to the toilet in various shrubs and forests and, by the way, feeds himself for an hour's pay of DKK 15-20. It is simply totally unacceptable that we should be witnessing this. The specific case of the Filipinos in Padborg is bad enough, but of course we are interested in hearing from the Danish People's Party how the government intends to tackle the problem itself, namely that free and unrestricted movement of labour is the very source of social dumping in general and also in the extreme cases that we see here in the Filipino case. A proposal for adoption has been put forward, which I find groundbreaking. Yes, control must be stepped up and EU rules must be enforced, however poor they may be, however difficult and complicated they may be, but, above all, the time has come to break free movement. Yes to mobility, but controlled and controlled mobility is the way forward if we really want to eliminate social dumping. So I look forward to the debate and then I look forward to finding out whether the government is ready to seriously stop social dumping or whether EU rules are more important than Danish workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107135227	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107135230	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I think these are important and serious and necessary words that the rapporteur says. I am just stumping over the fact that it is the free and unhindered movement of labour that is the problem and will give the rapporteur the opportunity to reflect. Because is it freedom of movement that is the problem, or is it the unbridled, capitalist, irresponsible, indecent companies that are taking advantage of this freedom of movement? Because, as I see it, it is the control that I am also talking about in my rapporteur's speech that is necessary here. However, I would like the rapporteur to clarify whether freedom of movement is really the fundamental problem here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107135319	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107135321	Well, I mean it is. So, social dumping can be defined in a multitude of ways. In my universe it is so that if Danish workers are outperformed on their livelihoods in Denmark by foreign workers who are here fully legal, then I see it as social dumping. If we have these cases where there is underpayment and where you work under harder conditions than Danes may be used to, then it is a degree tighter. Then that's what I'd call really unpleasant social dumping. What we are seeing here is a combination of really unpleasant social dumping and, by the way, all the adjectives that the rapporteur himself brought up about greed and so on. So there are many degrees of social dumping, but the free movement of labour is the mother of all problems when it comes to social dumping, because we have massive pressure on the Danish labour market because it is so good because it is so well regulated and because we are so highly paid to say it popularly. So the pressure to enter legally or illegally is simply too great. So, yes, it is the free movement of workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107135429	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. We need to get the next rapporteur. It's sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107135440	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the authors of this debate. I think it is a good thing that, in the wake of what we have seen in Padborg, we are having a broad and general debate about this. What can we do to prevent this? What can we do together to stem this that we don't want? It is a debate which, as I have said, has started because of the situation in Padborg, where Filipino drivers have lived in extremely poor conditions and far below the minimum wage in Denmark, far below the minimum wage. None of us wants to look at that; there is broad political agreement on that. That is not acceptable, and everyone here is concerned that there are fixed conditions. But it is the case that this is an area regulated by EU rules, and this gives us some challenges especially in Denmark. And why does it do that? Fortunately, we have what we all love, namely the Danish model, where we in Denmark do not legislate on minimum wages. This is done in other countries of Europe. Then there's a law you can enforce about this. We don't have that in Denmark. We have the social partners, who agree on terms and conditions of employment, and, as a starting point, it is also the social partners who have to keep an eye on the proper conduct of this. So it is a little more difficult here than in for example. Germany, which has legislated on a minimum wage. That doesn't mean we shouldn't do anything. I very much welcome the announcement by the government here that right now we are having a talk with the social partners about this, with the 3F and the employers' organisations. What can the government do in cooperation with the parties to strengthen control of this in order to get organized matters? Because these things are not something we legislate about. It's important to hold on to it. It is also important to look at what we can do to prevent. Control is a good principle. I've been in the army for years. There is something that says that trust is good, control is better. Because we humans can sometimes do some stupid things if we're not controlled. That's our nature. This is also true here. But that's where we have to keep our tongues straight in our mouths. You can make something like that by drawing a picture that if you just get lots of roadside controls, then this problem is solved, but it isn't. This hasn't happened on a roadside. It's something that's going on in a place somewhere down in Padborg. And if you learn that something illegal is going on and that they are breaking local plan, housing legislation and everything else, you have to report it to the police. Then the police arrive immediately, I assume, and move out. In any case, they have done so here where it has been reported. Roadside controls are different. We also need more of this if it is to the Left, because it is important to ensure rules on driving-rest time, and that you pay your taxes to drive on the Danish roads and all the other things, i.e. that the vehicles are in order etc. We also need more of that, but it should not be the police, because it is so easy to keep passing tasks on to the police. We all want them to do more of one thing and the other, and at the moment they are busy with football thugs and gangs. So it's easy to just say that we need more police, because we only have what we have at the moment, even though we are building the police. So instead we want a Danish version of the German BAG, the Bundesamt für Güterverkehr, and we have been down to talk to the Germans about that, and they want to help us implement it. Then we get a special corps that are experts in carrying out that control. It may be former truck drivers, and it may be former road hauliers who will have the task of controlling this, and then the police can free up resources for other things that are badly needed. So we're in on more control, certainly, but we just shouldn't think that roadside control solves everything. Then there is the EU track, which was also mentioned. After all, the government has taken great care to influence the EU's road package on the Danish side, and there we also broadly agree on what needs to be done. For example: should it end up with that when driving with foreign cars in Denmark, cabotage, combined driving etc., it should be on Danish pay terms. We are in complete agreement on this, and the government has put on the saber and is fighting for it. The government must also be commended for keeping us regularly and closely informed in the conciliation circle. We have another meeting next week on that. So I think it is good that we are together to fight in the EU track, because much of this is regulated at EU level. So all in all, I would like to make it clear that these are unacceptable conditions. There is broad political agreement that we must prevent it and we must contain it. It takes place at EU level, on the one hand, and at national level, with more effective controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107135904	Thank you. I would just like to say that it is only the rapporteurs who have the opportunity to speak in this debate. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107135913	Thank you for a wonderfully committed and vibrant speech. There is no doubt that the rapporteur of the Left really is passionate about this too, but that is why we in the Socialist Group are a little puzzled that more concrete action has not been followed up. Now the rapporteur of the Left says: we want a special road police, inspired by a German model and so on. Well, what's the status on that? Why hasn't anything happened? I think the rapporteur has been talking about this for three years now and nothing has really happened. What has happened, on the other hand, is that the resources that have been allocated to actual control have been turned down. It may be on the side of the road, but even if you live in a Filipino camp in Padborg, you drive a truck on the roads and can be taken by the police there, so I guess that makes sense. Well, why have resources turned down in this important area when you are so concerned about it, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is and even talks about having a special road police force, which has not yet arrived either?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140007	Well, I think so, sir. Rasmus Prehn knows that there has been a very, very sharp priority to police resources. We have too few police officers in Denmark, we are building the police force, and in the situation in which there are shooting gangs in Copenhagen there have been some terrorist threats and other threats, the police have had to re-prioritize, and I dare tell you that is the reason for the figures that Mr. Rasmus Prehn is coming with us, and no doubt he's right. It's a shame, but when there are shootings in the streets of Copenhagen and elsewhere, I guess that's something the police have to give priority to than roadside control. That is why we are concerned in the Left with having a special corps that are not policemen. It may well be that a policeman should be associated in a raid, but it should not be the police who have the lead, but some others who have the resources to do this. We are very concerned about that, and I can reassure Rasmus Prehn that it is inside the engine room. It's working on things, so it's gonna come, especially if we win the upcoming parliamentary election, what I believe we're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140100	Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140105	I mean, right to the debate on BAG: well, that's very good, but we actually have a team of experts in this area, because we have heavy duty car police. They just don't get used to what they're good at. They're used for everything else. And it is a purely formalistic discussion whether we should have one or the other corps and whether it should be called BAG or it should be called heavy duty car police. I really don't think that matters. It is a bit an attempt, I think, to avoid the very discussion that says that this is about when you drive a truck in Denmark, it has to be done on Danish pay and working conditions. When Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that here in Denmark we have contractual relations, so we can't really come for that, so it's not right. That is simply not true. After all, the rules on posting say that you must drive according to wage and working conditions in the country in which you are driving, and Article 6 of the Code of Goods Driving can then be applied, because you have to drive to the applicable agreement. So that's not true. I'm telling you, sir. Is Kristian Pihl Lorentzen really saying that the trade union movement must be able to carry out the task of drawing agreements on thousands of international transports every day? It's an impossible task.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140220	Well, I think 3F has shown here that they're keeping a close eye on it. It's 3F that we can thank that this has come out in the light, so they've done exactly what they're put in the world for. As far as the Posting of Workers Directive is concerned, it is not the case that when you drive cabotage in Denmark, it is on Danish pay and contract terms. That is precisely the problem, and that is exactly what we are trying to change with the European Union's road package. So that's where I think, sir. Henning Hyllested misses a bit. But it is not a diversion that we are talking about BAG. The difference between BAG and a Danish version of BAG is that they cannot be called out to gang shootings, because they are not policemen. But they are really good at controlling trucks and that there are fixed conditions, so it is really important. It's not a diversion, it's a real attempt to strengthen this control.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140304	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140305	You could just make a political decision that heavy duty car police are not used for tasks other than those they are very good at, because that task is also important and huge. 3F has just taken the lead, as the rapporteur also says, and has pointed out some rules, but they are, of course, dependent on the existence of regulatory control. It doesn't depend on whether 3F is able to do the job of drawing up agreements for these thousands of international transports. That is precisely because there is a reference to the fact that there is a regulatory control over the rules that are being applied, not least the rules on posting, which say that Danish pay and working conditions must be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140340	That is why, of course, we also need to strengthen roadside controls, on which we fully agree. And we also agree that if 3F finds out about some camp where people live in poor conditions, then you have to report it to the police, and things happen fast. Not only have the police responded quickly, but also the mayor of the Aabenraa Municipality has intervened quickly. So it works, but it requires you to get a message about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140400	Thank you. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140402	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for his wise words. I can hear that this is something that the rapporteur is very concerned about and that he has a great deal of knowledge in this area, respect for it. In my own rapporteur's speech, however, I spoke a little about the free movement of workers as the real source of the problem. When I hear the rapporteur, who says a lot about a special police unit and more control, I would like to ask: has the rapporteur himself not thought that, as the free movement of workers has developed, we will have more and more problems which will then result in more control? And no matter how much control there is, more control is needed. Has the rapporteur not considered whether it is time to set foot in relation to the free movement of workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140449	No, I haven't considered that. Overall, I believe that the free movement of labour contributes to making Europe far more prosperous than we would otherwise have been. It presents some challenges that we have brought in some Eastern European countries which have a much lower wage level than we have in Western Europe. This presents great challenges, and that is precisely why we have common rules on cabotage and so on, and we now need to make them clearer and easier to enforce. That is what the road package is about. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen is himself involved in the negotiations where we go to the waffles with the government. So, no, the free movement of workers must certainly not be abolished, but until there is a fairly equal level of wages in Europe, we must of course have this transport fence in so that there is no wage dumping in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140532	Here you go, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140534	I am now not sure that it is all drivers in Europe who have become prosperous by the free movement of workers. My feeling is that Danish drivers are under great pressure. After all, Denmark has the difficulty of having a very, very small geography, and that means that even when all the rules relating to cabotage are complied with, it is possible for foreign drivers to sit on the whole market in Denmark if they want to. It doesn't help Danish drivers. So if you try to see it from a slightly national perspective, does the rapporteur not understand at all that even if all the rules are respected and all the road packages are approved and everyone thinks it is fantastic, then there are Danish drivers who are either forced down on a salary they cannot live on or simply forced into another industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140616	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140616-2	It is part of history that there are also Danish drivers who drive trucks in Sweden and other countries and earn money there. And I think that basically benefits all of us, because transport is therefore cross-border, and it should not be the case that we are about to change drivers at the border. So, yes, it has come to be that we are driving across Europe, but it is precisely for this reason that it is important that we work together to make the road package operational and concrete, so that this is under control. Because it is not there at the moment that you can bypass the rules and be creative. That's the problem. Finally, I would also like to say that there is a certain amount of morality in this, because one thing is whether it is legal or illegal, but there is something called morality, and it is not my morality to let people work under the conditions we see down in Padborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140657	Thank you. Then that's the last question in this round for us to make it all, and that's sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140701	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that there are also Danish drivers driving abroad. Can the rapporteur mention a country where Danish drivers are undercutting local drivers?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140712-2	No, I don't think I can. Because we are very well placed with wages in Denmark, and that is fine. That is what the social partners are negotiating, and I leave that to them in confidence. But I would also like to say that if there is such a picture that some people come and steal the work from the Danish drivers, I do not think that is true. I have heard a figure that there are between 500 and 1,000 drivers missing in Denmark, and if there were no foreign drivers, and they have to have proper conditions, then our industry will suffer seriously, which has a huge need to have products and raw materials transported every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140747	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140749	So the conclusion is that that argument, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen brought on the track, does not last, because one cannot compare the salaries of Danish drivers who work under orderly and regulated conditions to decent wages, with the discount wages we see foreign drivers driving for in Denmark. So the argument doesn't stand. The last thing is a very short question, as I can hear Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen say many good things: Does this mean that the Left agrees with the proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140813	Yes, we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140819	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107140828	Like most of us in the Liberal Alliance, the conditions we've seen in this camp in Padborg are very problematic. It is therefore a good thing that we have done what we can by the authorities and cleared it. At the same time, we think it is important that this does not become a picture of foreign labour in Denmark. There are approx. 360,000 foreign nationals with income in Denmark. Overall, they work under agreements to about the same degree as Danes. In the industrial areas where the conditions have been studied, they earn the same as the Danes, and they contribute net to the Danish Treasury to a large extent. That's why this kind of grotesque individual case shouldn't be a shadow for the overall picture. Foreign labour strengthens Danish prosperity. When the Filipinos can end up in Denmark for these very poor pay and working conditions, it presents a general challenge in the EU: that there are not robust rules enough about who is being admitted into the EU. The idea of free movement of workers is not that cheap labour can be imported from Poland into Denmark. An open Europe requires that conditions be controlled in relation to third-country citizens, both in terms of labour and in terms of refugees, and here we see the European Union's greatest current challenge. We are also voting in favour of the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141004	Thank you. There are a few comments and questions. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141008	I'd like to know if Mr. Joachim B. Olsen continues to believe, as he said some time ago, that social dumping is just another expression of healthy competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141019	As several speakers have said, there is therefore no clear definition of social dumping. Well, some people use it as soon as they see competition. We have, for example. in the context of the negotiations we have had on increasing access of foreign labour to Denmark, where wages of less than DKr 400 000, well above the minimum wage agreed by the social partners, are also referred to as social dumping. So it is a concept that is widely used, there is no concrete definition of it. In this particular case, I think the word might cover well enough, but there is no fixed definition, and that is the kind of garbage phrase that the left is using on everything they do not like.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141108	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141109	So the concept of social dumping fits this situation well, and then the natural question is: is what is happening now so healthy competition? I mean, what else will it be like for a liberal if it is not a personal free choice these people have made to work under these conditions? We've heard some Filipinos say that. You have chosen these salaries and these working conditions. Then it is not a personal choice, and is what we are seeing now, not just healthy competition, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has argued in the past that the kind of competition in the labour market should be seen as?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141139	Overall, I am of the opinion that people should be free to enter into contracts with each other, and the contracts they conclude with each other are, in fact, their only concern. But this is about something other than that. It is also the case that a liberal society is based on law and law, and it is the right of a liberal state to decide who comes across its borders, and we are then part of the European Union. That is why we also take the view that there should be an understanding of who is allowed into the European Union, and here is an example of how these rules can be misused.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141215	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141216	The Liberal Alliance talks a lot about this healthy form of competition. I think everyone can agree that it may be good to have some competition and to get a good price and so on, but when we see the specific examples here, i.e. a slum camp in Padborg, where you lie on hollow foam rubber mattresses and where you don't get the medicine you've been promised you could get if you get sick, doesn't the Liberal Alliance rapporteur experience that some kind of cynicism and greed has crept into Danish society, that is, where in your quest for as good a price as possible you are willing to compromise with simple decency? Isn't there a limit to how much so-called healthy competition you have to have and how much you have to squeeze the lemon to get as low a price as possible? Don't we have a need to get more decency and responsibility in place of this blind quest for a low price when there are private companies Thank you. ) as slaughterhouses and other establishments which continue to handle...
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141324	Thank you, the President says, and that means stopping your speech stream. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141328	As I have read this case, it is clear to me that some things have been going on that seem obscene, and the rapporteur then also mentions and the rapporteur certainly knows more about it than I do about that. Some things have been promised. An agreement has been reached with, for example, an employer in this case. to have access to some medicine, and if you do not get it, it has nothing to do with a well-functioning market, because it is of course contract-based and you can enter into agreements with each other and those agreements are respected. So if that is not the case here, then it is obscene. I think it is fundamentally indecent if people make agreements with each other and do not comply with them. But the bigger problem here is that there seems to be a gap, that is, if you can import labour from third countries via another EU country. That's not the point of the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141427	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141429	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen mentions at the beginning of his speech that this is such a grotesque isolated case, and thus one can understand that it is not typical. But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is not saying that the EU rules we have on, for example. cabotage, does it mean that, as has also been mentioned by several people, cabotage services in this country are put in place, because it is really easy to make it possible to actually drive national transport in Denmark to Romanian or Filipino salaries? And do not the EU rules therefore undermine the collective bargaining system we have • the so-called Danish model • where we are just entering into contracts with each other, i.e. the trade union movement on behalf of the employees and employers?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141531	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141533	As I understand this case, it is not so much about cabotage, but it is more about international driving. So I am not sure that cabotage rules are relevant here. The Cabotage rules are, after all, a restriction on the free movement of labour. This is, of course, an exception to the rules we otherwise have in a liberalised labour market within the European Union, and one might then ask whether those restrictions and the additional regulation have created fewer problems or created more problems. I think so, may I say, is a little up in the air. At any rate, this is something we are dealing with incredibly much, whether you think there are a great many problems in this area which, in other words, have a special regulation in relation to everything else. When you look at the rest of the Danish labour market, where there is free movement, we see that people who come here and work are covered as much as Danes, etc. So perhaps these special rules also create some problems contrary to their intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141643	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141644	I think there is every reason to assume that these Filipinos have also been used for cabotage. There has certainly been an opportunity to do so, and if you look at a transport company such as Kurt Beier Transport and they are certainly not the only ones, then it is one of the very companies that has excelled in cabotage related to international transport. So I guess there is every reason to believe that, and that means that Filipino wages, including national transport, are being driven, and that means that the collective agreement system which should apply and which should ensure employees, including through the rules on posting, is being undermined.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141725	In relation to the Posting of Workers Directive, we have set out in this way in Denmark and it is my view that there is full support in the trade union movement that wages and working conditions are something that is agreed between the social partners, and therefore it is also their job to enforce the agreements or ensure that others are covered by them. In other countries, for example: Germany, which has minimum wages, may then be a task of authority, but I believe that the trade union movement in Denmark also does not want minimum statutory wages, which will of course make it a task of authority, that is clear. But I think that the Danish trade union movement is very wise, and I think that the benefits for Danish employees are also far greater, because pay and working conditions are something that is fixed by the social partners and something that we interfere with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141816	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen as the last in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141817	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to recall the rapporteur's introductory words that grotesque individual cases should not draw the picture of the situation or anything like that, but the fact is that it is often grotesque individual cases which, in sufficient quantity, actually constitute the picture. So to make it appear as if this camp in Padborg was the exception that confirms the rule, I wish I could agree with the rapporteur. However, 108 000 people from Poland and Lithuania have been granted work permits, so it must be assumed that these camps actually thrive on a large scale throughout Europe. Just a comment. As far as cabotage is concerned, these people, as was also mentioned, can legally drive cabotage in Denmark. And then I ask the rapporteur: when you have the risk that a Danish profession can actually be legally wiped out by Filipinos, how does the rapporteur think it can be stopped? Or should it be stopped? In fact, I had doubts about what the rapporteur really meant. Can it be explained a little? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107141929	As far as the first is concerned, the camp in question has not complied with Danish legislation and with the building regulations that exist, and that is sometimes the case. There are some who break the law, and then it is up to the authorities to ensure that they are stopped, and that has happened here. So every time there comes a case where there are some who break the law and then action is taken so that they are stopped, it is an indication that the legislation is working and that the authorities are doing what they have to do. And this is an example of that, and we should be happy about that. Then I think that the second part of the question should be put again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142008	Is there another part of the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142010	Well, well, well. First of all, this is a matter of building regulations; it is just an extra, grotesque little detail; it is not really the decisive thing. The fact is that if they had lived in caravans or proper sheds or whatever it was, it would have been perfectly legal, even according to the building regulations. The problem is, of course, that we are dealing with 200 people who can actually legally drive cabotage and cover virtually all transport in Denmark if they want to. That is the problem and I really want the rapporteur's position on it. With regard to the second part, I think I heard the rapporteur say that this was too bad and it should be stopped at some point. What exactly is the rapporteur's view that must be stopped?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142047	But what I think is clear is that in this case Poland is being used to get third country citizens into and work in Denmark, and that is not the point of free movement. The idea of free movement is that Europeans within the European Community can move freely across borders and take up work, and Danes can do so, and there are huge advantages to it. The unemployment rate in Denmark is low, despite the fact that we have very, very many people from abroad who work here. They contribute to Danish prosperity, so I'm just trying to say that the benefits are far greater than the disadvantages. But then we have to look at how we can prevent Poland from bringing third-country nationals to Denmark, because it is not the intention that we should not have it under control ourselves; that is what we decide for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142133	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142142	Thank you. As far as foreign drivers in Europe are concerned, I really understand that the debate is getting emotional today, because that is absolutely indecent what we have seen in Padborg. It has also been mentioned many times by the other rapporteurs how it is not a new phenomenon, and how it was perhaps also a phenomenon under previous governments, including that of which the SF itself was a part. More control is needed. We all agree on that, I think. So it is something about giving priority to some resources and having talks with the ministers, whom I hear as being very responsive and sympathetic to looking at the problems. I hope that they will follow up with action as well. Then it is said that it is also mentioned by one of the ministers that companies that exploit and speculate in the rules of free movement are in fact the main problem here. And I am incredibly in agreement with that. There is no doubt that freedom of movement also affects the way companies act. But I really have to take the debate back to something else, because now we are talking about free movement being the reason why we are exploiting people from third countries. Well, the global North has always exploited the global South, and now it just continues under this legislation. I find that deeply problematic, and perhaps that is also where we are going to talk about accountability and decency. I know that in several African nations anti-corruption and moral and ethics are already being worked out in primary school to prevent these systems, which are today being maintained by corruption and thinking on themselves. Perhaps we should do it more at home, because it cannot be that we should use a word like the Filipino fin and assign Filipino some of the responsibility for what is going on here. It is surely not the fault of Filipinos or Jamaicans that some obscene citizens are doing business like this. So I have to support the fact that there must be more control, that the government must intervene here, that we must address it to the European Union and that this text of adoption is made, and I also believe that the alternative can support it. We also support all the other good initiatives, such as tachographs and the like, but I can see that my speaking time is running out now, so these must be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142415	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142418	The reason I have just taken the floor is that Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen is very much in favour of the lack of morale, and I do not think anyone disagrees with the fact that there are some companies which show such a lack of morale. I would like to call them morally blunted when you are offering in goose eyes such conditions as have been offered to these Filipino drivers in Padborg. But I can understand what Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen that he does not think that it is the freedom of movement itself that is the problem, but that it is the companies that take advantage of it and speculate in the free movement. Hasn't it ever fallen, sir? Mr Courage Matthisen said that it might be that the rules were actually laid down because they had to be applied in this way; that, when you have cabotage rules that allow drivers from Romania, Bulgaria and now the Philippines to actually drive national transport in Denmark to Romanian, Bulgarian or Philippine salaries, it is actually fully aware that the rules have been set up in this way and that it is not an attempt to protect anyone but, on the contrary, to provide cheap labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142530	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested for the question. The short answer is: yes, it has occurred to me, and I am sure it is. But again we are talking about geopolitical decisions. In the United States, much of the legislation being made is based on the interests of business, and I can well imagine that has been some of the intention here. But we must also recognise that we have a European Union which we have built and safeguarded and which has done something good for Europe, and that part of freedom of movement which has contributed to it must be recognised. In connection with your adoption text, you ask whether it should be a controlled or free movement, and that is what we need to talk about, i.e. how we can get it together in the best way possible. However, I still believe that we have a huge responsibility and a huge task with us to control the companies that are making use of the rules, but also to ensure that some citizens are brought up to a higher level of decency than we continue to see in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142635	Please remember that we do not use direct indictment. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142644	After all, the whole EU construction is based on liberalist principles, and I find it really difficult to enforce morale against it, because if the principles and the construction allow you to actually drive cabotage fully legally to Romanian, Bulgarian or Filipino salaries, then it is really hard to see what you can do. It is difficult to put morale to the system when the system is based on these principles, and precisely in terms of international transport, the system is designed so that there are advantages to cheap labour when you can get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142741-2	I have to say that I do not agree with the rapporteur. I mean, I do not believe that we have built the European Union to make an excuse for vampire squid, which we call some of our neoliberal companies. The European Union has given us protection of nature and the environment, human rights, ensured that there have been no major wars in Europe, so the European Union is much more than a liberalist evil, so I do not agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142814	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142816	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. It is actually more of a commentary. I really hope that the rapporteur is aware that I know no one is blaming the Filipinos who have been brought here. It sounded to me as if the rapporteur had a problem with the word Filipino fin, i.e. as if they were putting responsibility on these Filipinos. So, in all the articles and in all the people I have spoken to, nobody blames these Filipinos on the contrary. In fact, they are also a kind of victims, on an equal footing, with those people whose jobs they raise and occupy. It was just to put it in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142856	Thank you. And no, not at all. In fact, I think the rapporteur is the one who has been clearest in his speech and said that it is actually slavery and slave-like relationships. And thank you for saying that's what it is. And that is also why I say that the global North has always exploited the global South and that it is also in this context that we must talk about it. I am talking more about the fact that sometimes in the rapporteur's party or in other rapporteurs, I think, there are condescending allusions to their coming and taking our work. And I do not think that is fair, especially in a situation such as this, which the rapporteur has just addressed as slavery.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142929	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107142931	[Sound out]... up in Aarhus and see what poverty he lives in with urine plastic bottles in the cab, and then they give him 50 kroner, because they simply feel sorry for him, on which the Filipino began to cry. So it was people associated with the trucking business, with the driver business, who showed that humanity to this Filipino driver. No one has a bad word to say about these Filipinos; it is the situation we are all in that is the villain.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143018	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143019	I would like to thank the rapporteur for that example. It breaks my heart to hear reality manifest in the way it does. And again: we support the proposal for adoption. I don't think that's what I'm talking about. All the words have been said today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143038	Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143040	When we hear about these situations, we get moved, we get touched by it. I can also see that the rapporteur of the alternative does. I was trying to ask the Liberal Alliance if this attempt at the lowest price has not taken on too much, if there has not been too much greed, if there has not been too much cynicism. We can see here that there are a number of companies that have worked together with the named trucker in Padborg, who have now terminated their work. That's a good thing. But there is also the story of the Great Abattoir Danish Crown that says: Well we will not stop; we will continue with it, because we just have to get it as cheap as possible. This moral decay is a matter here, where you are completely cynical and indifferent to what kind of situation people are being put into... shouldn't we take any action in relation to it? And could the alternative, which is sometimes used to thinking a little out of the box, think of ideas about what we could do? Could you imagine in the future, President Yes, thank you! ) that there should be labelling, President Yes! ) that things have been transported on proper conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143150	Yes, please! Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143151	I am very sorry that the rapporteur was interrupted right there, because I think that sounds like a good proposal. Greed seems to me to be in the global North and has been doing so for centuries. This is just a manifestation of that greed, and it's really unfortunate. Yes, there are many things we could do. As I have mentioned before, this could be part of the teaching of our folk schools, ethics and morals, and it could be that our press should also be better at it, and it could be that we politicians should also be better at it. In relation to the specific proposal for labelling, I would say that this actually sounds interesting. I was also thinking: could it be imagined that citizens from a third country in this design would have to work under contract, and then companies would have to secure it, at least in this design? Because it is clear that we must do something. However, I believe that we must again impose much more responsibility and far greater sanctions on companies, because it is inconceivable that we should continue to have people who make such slave-like conditions in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143302	Yes, please! Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143303	It's great to have the floor again. It's been a little on/off, considering if we got another round or not... it's these new rules... but it does make sense that I can finish my sentence, and I'm only happy about that. Because there is no doubt that it could be a constructive solution to see, in the same way as the consumer, whether something is labeled as organic or as something with whole grain or with some of the other labelling schemes that are there, that it is actually a question of buying a product delivered with fair transport. In other words, you could have a number of specifications to live up to, President Thank you! ) and then, as a consumer, you can know that you choose what is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143344	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143345	Once again, I have to say to the rapporteur that it is a pity that he is being interrupted, but I think that the rapporteur is hitting some of the essence of what we often talk about, namely first world problems. That is what we have here, but we also have the opportunity to take responsibility ourselves, even to take the lead if we cannot get these obscene business owners to do so. In fact, we could leave it to the other professions and civil society to influence developments in order to move in the right direction, I think that the labelling system could be quite interesting. We also saw that Lars Larsen was out saying: I am not going to use this transport company further chairman Yes, thank you!). It is up to us to take collective responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143425	Thank you. Then there are no more questions and we will move on to the next rapporteur. I just want to say that we have a short time left and if we're gonna be done by 8:00. 15.00, there will be only one question for each questioner and we will try to see if we can make it all. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143446	Thank you. I would also like to thank the authors of the question. I can, of course, endorse the common position that is in the Chamber today. What we have seen in Padborg is, of course, totally unacceptable. Fortunately, we have heard a series of initiatives presented by the government, including increased control, and we welcome this. It is clear that the situation we have seen in Padborg, among other things. must find its solution in the EU system. I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment to this. I note that the manager of the transport company concerned today regrets his own business practice. It is gratifying that there is massive consumer pressure, media pressure and authority pressure, control by trade unions and with today's debate also political pressure on the people who are using the rules in the way we have seen here. So, although the matter is shameful, I do think that the reactions at least show that it is a risky affair to drive the internal market in the way it has been done here. Danish business is entirely dependent on an efficient transport sector at the same price as competitors in the rest of the EU, but we must insist on orderly conditions. We shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143607	There is one question from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143608	I am a little surprised that when we sent the request for this urgent request, the Radical Left was the only party that did not agree that this urgent request should be kept. Now I note that the Radical Left has decided to vote in favour of the proposal for adoption, and I welcome that. So I just wanted to know why you weren't there when the question was decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143641	I'm glad to hear that. Henning Hyllested, but unfortunately I cannot answer the question. I don't know why we originally rejected it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143648	We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next one, and that is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107143656	A big thank you to the trade union 3F and the Fagbladet 3F for being able to focus on the purpose of working conditions in Denmark. Unfortunately, I would like to contribute further to the bad atmosphere, because this is not just about the road haulage company Kurt Beier in Esbjerg; also Henrik Hansen, who has Contrans in Southern Denmark, has been involved in cutting cat hatches into the door of the European Union, and through the cat hatches the underpaid, subdued, disciplined drivers from the Philippines, but also from Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. And I also know the names of two other transport companies that also use the Filipino fin. There really is something to be done here. In 2017, 41,391 work permits were granted to drivers through Poland. In the EU as a whole, 74,834 were given last year. The number of permits for drivers from third countries has increased by 60%. Since 2015. And I myself have immediately identified the consequences of this. Last year I drove along with a Danish export driver who drives fish to Italy through Europe, and every time we drove into a rest stop, the picture was the same • it was a window into poor parallel societies. Last weekend I visited three parking spaces on Funen and talked to drivers from different countries. And I would say that there is good reason to criticise greedy hauliers, also because they make it difficult for the serious and respectable Danish hauliers who lose orders when there is competition to press the wages and working conditions of drivers. Fortunately, a number of Danish hauliers refuse to participate in the management of working conditions. But I think we should also address a slightly different part of this discussion, namely who is buying these services, those who need to buy the transport. Other companies in Denmark are thus helping to push the costs. Last Sunday I talked to two drivers from Bosnia who, together with two other colleagues, lived in their trucks in a small parking lot down at Ringe, and the two older drivers told about the many weeks they were on a regular service with juice from the aunty in Ringe to Sweden and back again. They lived without bathrooms and toilets, and when I asked how else they did, yes, they pointed so completely resigned towards some bushes nearby. And that is what we are doing in order to save a few pennies, which it must be about, per year. liter of juice to be sent to Sweden. Yes, yes, in Rynkeby they are good at pressing apples and oranges and indeed working conditions! In Nyborg I talked to a Romanian who lived and worked in the truck's cab for six consecutive months at a fixed shuttle service between Denmark, Sweden and Finland. And it is true for the Bosnian and also for the Romanian here that the rules on cabotage are constantly being broken. Outside Langeskov lies a company that produces articles for pets, and the company advertises such a huge advertisement on their wall with a dog and a big red heart. There is no doubt that they have great love for pets in the company • different it seems with the care of the three Bulgarian drivers who stayed overnight in a sad industrial area without facilities. Mailbox companies and cat hatches must be nailed to. The European Union is the hammer and the nails are the rights of the workers. In Denmark, we must strike hard with increased controls and fines that can be felt on the management channels. Fair transport is needed, as they say in 3F.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144055	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. It's going pretty fast. Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144104	Thank you. I would like to start by stressing, as several other rapporteurs have also done, that it is totally unacceptable with the messy and miserable conditions that Filipino drivers have lived under with the road haulage operator in Padborg. The television footage from Padborg has also made a great impression on me, and I am shocked that something like this can happen in Denmark. It is quite unacceptable to offer such conditions to drivers. That is why I am also pleased that the authorities moved out and cleared the entire camp area and that there is now an investigation so that we can fully clarify the matter. From the conservative side, we would like to help look at how we can improve control. We do not want a further opening up of the cabotage market as long as there are major social differences between Member States, as is the case today. We want to take action against systematic cabotage and curb the use of mailbox companies created solely to circumvent the rules. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister of Transport will take up the matter and help to ensure that when, for example, there is one. If Filipinos come to Denmark via a Polish work permit and the free movement of services, they do so under orderly conditions. I am glad that the government will also help to see whether we can improve the control of the rules here in Denmark. It is important that we have thorough and effective controls. The European Union must also help to solve the problem, which is why I look forward to hearing a reaction from the Minister for Transport next week after he has had a discussion with his colleagues in the road transport alliance. Finally, I would like to say in conclusion that I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in this Parliament that something needs to be done in this area, and I can tell you that the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144307	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144311	The rapporteur says that we are in favour of increased controls, including controls on cabotage and, above all, the systematic cabotage which has been very, very effectively put in place here in Denmark. That is why, of course, I would like to hear whether this also means that the Conservative People's Party will take action in the context of the financial legislation negotiations, so that additional funds will also be provided for more efficient and extra control of some of these things, i.e. extra control of road transport, which, when checked, reveals cheating with both one and the other, driving-rest time, cabotage and cheating with pollution control, and I shall give you that. There's not gonna be that thing that's not gonna be cheating on you anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144401	Thank you for the question. I would very much like to answer that if I could, but unfortunately I cannot. I am not the one who sits as the financial rapporteur and negotiates on our behalf, so I cannot tell you what we like to stress in the financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144417	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144419	Well, I was just thinking that you guys are talking, after all, that many of you aren't, and it wasn't meant sarcastic or anything, but that after all you talk in the party, and that you could therefore say well as the transport rapporteur to the financial rapporteur: listen, there is something that needs to be done here, we simply have to do that. So if I could get that statement, it would be fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144443	You can believe that we are talking in our party, and of course we are also talking about this case and have done so, and that is, of course, something that we are looking at very seriously and that we would like to prioritize that something needs to be done about. How and how that should be, then, must show itself, that is to say, how far we go about things in the financial law negotiations and also in the negotiations with the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144506	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And then we're through the rapporteur's line and we're going to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144518	Thank you. I am pleased that this debate has made it clear that there is broad agreement in the Danish Parliament to condemn the conditions under which foreign drivers have been accommodated with a Danish road haulage company in Padborg, conditions which are totally unacceptable. That is why I am also pleased that a number of authorities moved out and put an end to the unacceptable conditions by clearing the entire camp area. This is clear evidence to me that the joint action by the authorities in this area is important and that it has an effect because it enables us to deal with such issues. That is not to say that we cannot do more. It is absolutely crucial in this area that we have thorough and effective control and that the government is willing to see whether there are areas where we can improve control. It is also one of the topics that the Minister for Employment and I will address at the meeting to which we will call the professional organisations and where we can learn more about what we can do to support the Danish labour market model, so that matters like this can be handled. At the same time, it is important for me to emphasise that the government continues to work very actively in the European Union to ensure that we have better rules in this area so that we can stem situations like this. Let me repeat here some of the government's priorities in the negotiations on the road package: we do not want to see a further opening up of the cabotage market as long as the social differences between the Member States are as great as they are today; we want to see a safeguard against systematic cabotage; we want cabotage rules for combined transport; we want to see the use of mailbox companies set up to circumvent the rules alone. Overall, we want more fair and equal conditions of competition to be created in the transport sector. On Monday, 12 November, I will go to Brussels to discuss these priorities with my colleagues in the Road Transport Alliance, and on Tuesday I look forward to discussing them with all the parties of the Danish Parliament who have been invited to the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing for a meeting on the road package. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144726	There is a question from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144728	I was, of course, listening carefully to whether the government had an indication of whether it supported the proposal for adoption that has been put forward. Maybe I didn't hear it, but I don't think anything was said about it. I would like to know whether the government has a position on the proposal for adoption we have put forward. Then the Minister listed a number of things that will be put into the negotiations that are taking place in the European Union on this road package. But I would like to hear it because it was not mentioned: what about this gap, as we refer to what is in Poland? it could also be other countries where people suddenly think that there is a shortage of labour in one area or another, including drivers, and then, through the EU's driving rules, they can spread across Europe? Will what is being done in connection with the road package negotiations prevent people who come to Poland on a Polish permit from suddenly finding themselves in Denmark and driving transport, including cabotage, in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144834	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144835	The government supports the proposal for adoption, but I thought it was covered by the fact that all three government parties have been on the floor and say that they support the proposal. So do the government members of the three governing parties. The road package cannot prevent the general rules in the EU that, firstly, each country must decide for itself whether it will take labour from third countries into the country and, secondly, that EU rules on the free sale of services across borders may mean that employees from third countries can provide services in other EU countries. So the road package can't handle that. However, there are rules on posting that apply, and so do transport. And those rules give countries the right to regulate pay and working conditions, as they are regulated in the country itself. There is just the fact that in Denmark we have no government-enforced wage formation. The formation of wages is enforced by agreements between the two sides of industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144948	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107144949	Well then, we really do have the problem from the point of view of the Minister of Transport, because if you think that the rules on posting are basically not enforceable or that it is really the trade union movement that has to enforce them, then we have the problem. I have said this several times during the debate here: it is impossible to carry out the task of drawing up agreements on thousands of transports that drive in and out of this country on a daily basis. In other areas, after all, we have the rules, even in the case of the European Union, that reach it, for example. As far as the rules on secondment are concerned, it is a convention in force, and that is for example. Also, what's in the goods traffic law, right? You could then rely on that if you have that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145040	But it's not about thousands of runs through Denmark. It is about Polish employees who are posted in Denmark to drive in and out of Denmark, from Denmark and to Denmark. In fact, I think it is within the reach of the trade union movement to be able to deal with this if we give them the tools that are necessary for it. We have done so in other areas. We have, for example, in the construction sector. a RUT register, and there is also a register on the way for transport in the EU area. At least that is what we are proposing. So I don't think it's as unmanageable as sir. Henning Hyllested says.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145118	Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145119	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I do not think it is quite fair to start discussing details with a minister on the platform, so I just have another issue of a slightly more general nature, and that is in the context of cabotage. After all, there are common rules for cabotage throughout Europe, whether or not they are complied with, but does not the Minister believe that there is a difference between the fact that, for example, a large country like Spain has the possibility of cabotage for 3, 5 or 7 days compared to a small country such as Denmark or Luxembourg? Is there not an absurdity in the fact that these are the same periods of time that apply to all countries, given that geography is so clearly different? Would it be possible to differentiate the cabotage period?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145212	First of all, it must be made clear that what is involved in cabotage is not an opening-up. Cabotage rules restrict the possibility of providing in the transport sector what the internal market opens up to in all other areas, namely that we can work cross-cuttingly and provide cross-cutting services. We can do so much more freely outside the transport sector than we can in the transport sector, because the cabotage rules are restricted. I find it difficult to imagine that there could be different cabotage rules depending on which country it is and the distance to the country in which cabotage is operated, etc. I cannot imagine that, but I am happy to listen to proposals and, if it makes sense, I am happy to take it forward in the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145256	Okay, thank you. No one else has asked for brief comments. So thank you to the Minister for Transport. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145308	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate, which I think has highlighted in many ways the importance of this discussion and has also given the opportunity to go a little further into some of the issues we are talking about. I would like to make it clear once again that it is also on the basis of what Mr. Henning Hyllested has mentioned several times that in this context we must try to have a dialogue with the social partners. That is also why, in the near future, the Minister for Transport and I will be inviting the social partners to discuss this topic which has been the subject of the debate here today. I would also like to make it clear once again that this is a priority for the government. And I think that, depending on the year being struck down, the government has also given priority to this. There are various discussions about what arranged conditions are, depending on the area we are talking about. When the government talks about it, it is the cooperation that takes place across the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Transport. There, at least this year, we have added additional resources to that area. Having said that, however, I would also like to take note of the proposal for adoption that is on the table, which the government supports, and the Minister for Transport has also expressed this, and to say that, following this, we will have a discussion with the parties of the Folketing on how to follow more operationally some of the things mentioned in the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145449	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145453	So I would just like to say that, in fact, when we are engaged in the financial legislation negotiations, we will be able to see that there will be an increase in control, as the proposal for adoption says, and that, therefore, funds will also be allocated to it. I am also very pleased, I would say, that the government agrees with us that decisive emphasis must be placed on the European Union language, which we all know is that it is Danish pay and working conditions that must apply to third-country driving, cabotage and combined driving.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145530	I can guarantee that we will have a discussion with the parties that have today been part of this discussion on the issue of orderly relations, and we will then have to look at how the elements of the proposal for adoption that have been unfolded are followed up, but of course also ensure that the Folketing is informed of the initiatives being taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145553	We thank the Minister for Employment. We shall now turn to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107145615	Thank you. On behalf of the questioners and on behalf of the parties who have made a proposal for adoption through extremely constructive cooperation it took a long time, but constructively it was, of course, I would like to thank you for today's debate. I think that this has been a good and very important debate, and it was also our aim to highlight the unfair nature of the current EU rules for road transport, international transport and the derived cabotage, combined transport and third-country traffic, and all that is called. That has been very good to note. I am very pleased that the government and government parties agree with the proposal for adoption. We believe that in many ways it is a proposal for adoption which gives a very clear indication of the future work on these things in the European Union in the context of the negotiations currently taking place in the European Union and that there is the proposal for adoption that Denmark must stand firm and here we must be really, really sharp. We can be even more so if we cooperate with them, let us just call them like-minded countries, countries with the same perception as we do in the so-called road alliance. That's really good. The second track which we are also pursuing in the proposal for adoption is the question of increased monitoring. After all, we believe that there has been some lack of effort for a long time. That has been explained. Heavy duty police are being used for much more than what they're really good at. We really do have a team of officers here who are both dedicated, but in fact are also experts in their field, and it is not just the officers, it is also the whole hinterland of lawyers and prosecutors etc. etc. It is clear that the proposal for adoption is a clear statement of the fact that it is perhaps something. As I have said several times, and as some of the other rapporteurs have also said, it has to be translated into the fact that we can see that increased resources are actually being allocated, increased funds to increase this control. In this respect, it can be said that, firstly, it will have a preventive effect and, secondly, it will undoubtedly also catch many of the illegal practices that are taking place. We have heard from Filipino drivers what conditions they are running under. In addition to driving to 15-20 kroner. In the hour, then, it is something about that they drive almost 24 hours and spend the night all the time and then again in their cabs. They're actually two men to share, and you can't spend the night while driving, so there won't be real time to spend the night properly. These are some of the issues we are hearing about, and they will be some of the issues that can be tackled if control is increased by the heavy goods vehicle police. So all in all I think it has been a very good day, and it has been a very good debate, and it is a very, very good proposal for adoption, which the whole of the Danish Parliament is in favour of. It can hardly be better. We have great hopes that this will also mean that we will have increased efforts in this area and that we will also be really sharp in the negotiations in the European Union. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150012	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 8 November 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150029	While we're getting ready for Question Time, we're gonna have to get the Minister of Justice in place, but I have a couple of messages I can read out in the meantime. I have to inform you that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen under nr. 6 questions raised, S 196, to the Minister of Justice and the No. 13 questions raised, S 195, to the Minister for Taxation, at the request of the author. The questions are asked instead as written questions. At the same time, I should also like to inform you that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl under nr. 14 questions raised by the Minister for Education and Research, S 185, will be withdrawn at the request of the author. The question will instead be asked as a written question. Then I think we have the Minister of Justice in place, including with regard to the microphone. I assume the Minister of Justice has logged in right now. Thank you. The first question is to the Minister for Justice, and that is asked by Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150145	Here you go to Karina Due to read the question in the first place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150148	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on border controls out of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150159	Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150201	Thank you. I assume that the question is about the Danish-German border, where, as you know, we have temporary border controls aimed at entry to Denmark. Then I also assume that the question of border controls out of Denmark concerns the possibility of apprehending foreign criminals who are leaving the country, i.e. a so-called reverse border control, if you can call it that. Like the questioner, I am very concerned that action is being taken against the crime of foreign travellers. The actions of the travelling criminals in this country are unacceptable, they create insecurity and, of course, they must be combated. That is why the government has taken a number of steps to eradicate the crimes of the travelling foreigners. This is true, for example. the installation of anpg cameras at all border crossing points at the border with Germany. In relation to the issue of the possibility of so-called reverse border controls, we have the quite fundamental problem that it will raise some serious issues in relation to the Schengen acquis. The rules we have for border controls in Denmark today are, of course, due to the fact that there is a serious terrorist threat to Denmark. We will have a little difficulty using the same argument for border controls out of Denmark, which is why we have the challenge with the Schengen acquis. But fortunately, we do so many other things. Perhaps we can discuss that here in the question-answer round.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150335	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150336	Thank you. Last year I was in the middle of Copenhagen and saw a van with foreign license plates. It was a Friday afternoon and three or four bikes were loaded into this van, and then it threw off to its home country. One thing is that they are up here to work; another thing is when you take what we call self-regulating pay supplements with you home in the back of the van. The reason why I immediately suspected that this was theft was because when you put four bikes into a van and you're only two men, I don't really see how you should use four bikes to drive here in Copenhagen. There are far too many Danes who have cleared the place at home, who are being burgled, and we know that some Eastern European gangs are behind this and that it is organized. I think it could be a little funny if we were flirting a little with the idea that when we were still at the border crossings, we could also stop some cars on the way out of Denmark to see if they had some things in the back of the car that shouldn't be there. It could be a deterrent, it could be a help in the investigation, and it could make Denmark a little safer. I know that there are some problems with Schengen, but if we are now completely ignoring Schengen, I would just like the Minister to give his very clear idea of what his attitude would be to the reverse border control, if there were no problems with the European Union, with Schengen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150528	Yeah, but it doesn't lead to much. Of course, we can stand here and have a talk about what the world would look like if the reality of the world was different. But I agree. I agree with the very content of the question, namely that we must fight it together. In fact, I believe that we have done a great deal together through financial laws and in other areas. It's not like you can't stop cars. You can do that. The Anpg cameras are filming both roads, and of course the police are allowed to stop a car and investigate it. We have also made a burglary package together, which means following the travelling criminals. Now I see that time does not allow me to say anything more.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150618	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150620	Thank you. I'm just getting a little confused. I am here with an article in which the rapporteur on the law of the Left, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, says that the Left is okay with the idea of a reverse border control, but when the Minister then says that it is not possible and there are some other things that need to be used, I am confused at several levels. But does the Minister agree with Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150650	Now, for good reasons, I do not know in what context Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen has said it and what it is. I just have to say that we cannot introduce border controls out of Denmark with the rules that are in Schengen, but I just think we can do so much else. We have together made a package of burglars; we have provided the opportunity for the police to stop people, because the police must, of course, get out of the way when you get there; there are priority funds for police crime-fighting efforts in border areas up to both Germany and Sweden. That is to say, without even real border controls, we can actually do a lot of things, and we are already doing that today, and I am happy to discuss this in some way. We can discuss this here; we can discuss this in a red building right back here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150736	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150737	Thank you. If it turns out that this is a means to be used, would the Minister be interested in trying to challenge the European Union in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150751	Now I'm not saying this just to be someone who has to say no and doesn't want to find solutions, but exactly this one means we can't do it with, because then we should say that there was a terrorist threat, that is, out of Denmark, and it's a little hard to argue for. I do not want to get out of Schengen, because if so, it will cost our membership of Europol; we cannot be a member of it if we are not a member of Schengen. So I don't want to do that, but I want to do a lot of other things, that is to say, look at the cameras, see if the police can stop people more if they suspect, and if we can do a whole lot with the burglar packages we're making to fight these foreign criminals, because I'm quite sure we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150821	I would like to thank Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. That concludes the question. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and that is by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150833	Thank you, sir. President. Is the Minister satisfied with the number of uniformed and non-uniform staff who have chosen to move the place of employment and thus remain employed in the Department of Criminal Welfare after the government has completed the closure of the State Prison Lobster?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150848	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107150848-2	Thank you for the question of the status of the staff of Motherfuckers, an issue I have previously discussed with the conciliation circle behind the multi-year agreement of the Department of Justice. As you know, the multi-year agreement provides for the modernisation of criminal services. It is a very important task, which means changes for both the criminal services as an organisation and for the individual employees, but it is also absolutely necessary that we modernise the prison services, and the conciliation circle behind the multi-year agreement has therefore decided during the summer to put the State Prison Bitch Lion in hibernation. I have previously informed the conciliation circle that all of the uniformed staff in the prison have been offered employment in other institutions of the Department of Criminal Welfare, near their residence or near the Bollocks. A large proportion of non-uniform civilian staff have also been offered employment elsewhere in the Department of Criminal Services. This is a decision that directly affects the employees who have to move the workplace, and I understand that it is never fun to have to do so. However, I am pleased that the vast majority of uniformed staff, 69 out of 77, and over half of the civilian staff, 19 out of 29, have chosen to continue in the criminal services of other institutions. This testifies to the fact that, despite such a change in their working lives, the staff in the Department of Criminal Services are very skilled and committed employees, and I am certainly pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151017	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151018	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Minister's answer to the question. A little back in time we also had a dialogue here in the Danish Parliament, and it was back in May 2017, when I asked questions about the standardisation policy and the development of the number of assaults on employees in the Department of Criminal Services and, in general, the poor working situation and the poor working environment that there was quite openly, for many of the staff in the Department of Criminal Services.I certainly also remember that the Minister was sensitive to doing better; of course I would like to sign for that, but it is kind of in the same field of interest as the question I have asked here, and so of course I would like to know whether the employees have chosen to move to the place where they have now instead been able to get employment. But there is also the question of the number of new employees, which we have also had the discussion about. One thing is, of course, that we are making an effort through our multi-year agreement to get people back in and to get an increase in admission to the school, where prison staff are being trained, another is that the number of annual work over the last 10 years has decreased quite significantly, in terms of the number of prison officers and, above all, the number of workmen, while the number of inmates has increased. In the Danish People's Party we would have liked to have seen that it was the other way around, that is, that there were more employees compared to the number of inmates. Because we can see that more and more inmates are being placed in closed institutions and that the need for monitoring is also increasing considerably. So does the Minister not agree that we need to focus further on the working conditions of employees? One thing is that we are educating someone, and that is fine, but we must also ensure that they want to remain employed within the framework of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151225	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151227	I very much agree with that. We have taken a number of steps to ensure that the officers are safe, and there is also work going on right now. We're having a conciliation meeting next week, and it's not because I don't want to talk about this, that I'm saying it, but I just want to report that we're going to talk more about that because we need to keep looking at: how are we going to ensure it best? One thing is to support the employees, another is whether there is anything in the way we work that can be done better. I mean, there are some closed prisons that have very few attacks, and there are others that have many, and we have to do something about that. Because neither the questioner nor I can live with the fact that our prison officers can't go to work safely.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151303	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151304	That's right. That is also why we, among others, are here. has a focus on what we have discussed in the past, namely that employees in the closed prisons have many times experienced being understaffed in the areas where they are employed, regardless of the fact that they have a clear agreement that there must be at least two at work at a time on each of the individual sections of the prison, and we can see that unfortunately there has been no response. How's it going?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151334	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151335	What we are using the agreement on criminal justice, which has just been concluded and is now being implemented, is precisely to see: how can we strengthen some departments in particular? We've got such a travel team... travel team is too bad a word, but now I can't remember what it's called... 30 cops, who can simply be sent out to places where you're particularly challenged, and put in there while there are more officers being trained. Our challenge right now is personnel; it is not buildings that are our problem, it is personnel. We have agreed to hire more prison officers, but our challenge is simply to get them, and that is one of the things we are going to talk about in the conciliation circle. How do we make an extra effort to get more cops? We have to. It's a little too bad when we have the money, that we can't get the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151421	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151422	That is also why, back in May 2016, the Minister of Justice said in this Chamber that there was a clear position, and it was that in the year 2017 alone 140 new prison officers would be recruited under the prison regime. Finally, I would like to ask a question about this particular hibernation, which the Minister has announced in relation to the State prison Bitchman; it has been implemented, the place is hibernating and so on, and I hope they will still mow the grass, paint the plant and keep the buildings heated, because it will soon be winter. But I can also note that many of the media that are in the building environment that is out there, interiors like beds, tables and chairs, furniture in general, have other institutions been out inspecting to move it to other of the Departmental Services buildings. What if you have to open the institution again when it is no longer in hibernation? All of a sudden, you're missing everything that's been removed from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151521	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151522	If that happens, then we will find a solution to it; it is the case that the Department of Investigation is good at producing things for itself in the various workshops. We'll solve that. The challenge we are following closely right now. After all, there is nothing wrong with State prison Motherfucker, it is just a very large open prison, and right now the pressure is in the closed places, and unfortunately it is in an area where there are many other prisons for them. But that is one of the things we are going to be watching, and if we suddenly need more space in a sector, we will solve it, and I promise that it will not be Schengen and other things that will be the problem in the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151555	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. The next question is to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151607	Thank you. Will the Minister work to ensure that the municipalities have more tools to close biker castles and gang clubhouses?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151616	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151617	Thank you for the question. Rockerborgs and gang clubs, which create insecurity for neighbours and others, should not have a place in our society, and as far as possible, these places must be closed temporarily or permanently. That is why I am also pleased that with the new Rockerborg Act, which was part of gang package III, which we made together, we made it possible for the municipalities to close biker castles and gang clubhouses. With these rules, municipalities can close a biker castle or a gang clubhouse when the place is suitable to cause significant inconvenience and insecurity to the neighbors. I was pleased to note that the law has been applied in a number of municipalities. At the same time, however, I understand that there are municipalities that have the challenges of applying the rules, and that is why in August I had a meeting with a number of municipalities that raised this question, that is to say on this subject. In the same month, my officials held a meeting with KL and relevant municipalities to evaluate the bikerborg Act. Among other things: at the meetings, the municipalities have had the opportunity to identify the challenges with the rules they see. The good dialogue with KL and the municipalities will continue, and then we will work to have an overview of the small and large challenges that may be, with the rules, and how we can address them in the coming months. I would just like to express my support here for the measures that can help municipalities to apply the rules of the Rockerborg Act as effectively as possible. I do not think that we are fully in line with the fact that all municipalities are using them to the best of their ability, and we must then help them to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151746	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151748	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In fact, I think that in many ways it was a good answer, because it was a friendly answer to us both, I think, but also to the municipalities that are in difficulty. There is no doubt that we, on our side, are very fond of gang package III, which we have helped to reach agreement with the government, and for the austerity we have made in order to make it easier to come after the gang clubhouses and bikers around. What makes people insecure in these areas must of course be able to crack down on, and that is why it was a pleasure for us to be able to help give the municipalities new tools so that some of these collection sites could be closed down. That is also why we are concerned that the municipalities can actually use the rules. And that is why it is a matter of some concern when several municipalities appear in the media and say: Yes, yes, it is very good that you in the Danish Parliament adopt gang packages and do all kinds of things, but it is difficult for us to use in practice. The real reason why I have asked this question is that I would like us to come up with a situation where, instead of saying that it is difficult for them, it is difficult for them, said: we have our arms over our heads for pure happiness, because we have removed these gathering places that create insecurity in the local areas and that we cannot be served with. I would therefore like to ask the Minister when it is expected to have something concrete for the Danish Parliament, that is, when it is ready to legislate in this area and to call for any negotiations on it. That's one thing. The other thing is: Do you have any concrete ideas about how to make it easier to close these clubhouses or bikers?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151925	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107151927	I dare not promise more now than that, within a few months, we should be ready with the results of what the municipalities bring in and what they say. In other words, there are challenges in proving that the biker castle is suitable to cause a significant disadvantage and insecurity for citizens. And there are also challenges with the fact that bans in first-time cases only apply for three months. The questioner is well aware of the thought that lies behind it. I am actually open to looking at whether it is chiseled in stone that it should be 3 months or whether we can do something about it. I'm actually very ready to look at that. And then I'd like to say a little more when I get the opportunity again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152003	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152006	The last thing I thought was very good, that is to say the Minister says clearly that you are open to ending these three months and saying that it may be a longer period. I will already give full support to this; if it proves possible within the framework of the Constitution, then of course the Danish People's Party supports it. I would like to say that we are ready to look at and discuss all the measures that can be shaken out of our sleeve, or everything that the municipalities are experiencing from difficulties, so that we can look at this. I would like to ask the Minister: was it an idea that a special unit was set up, which was so administratively speaking, if there was a municipality that had a challenge with this, and immediately, from day one, provided legal assistance to see how this could be achieved? Maybe the Minister can answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152054	We have offered it, and it may be that we need to have some more talk with the municipalities about this. We've also told KL I've been out to say that we're ready to make a hotline and other things. You weren't as interested in that. How can we do that? What I would have liked to have said before was that Mr. Peter Kofod and I, who both of us have been in municipal politics, have found that there can be different ways to run it. There may be some lawyers in a municipality who think: we go straight to the line and challenge everything we can. And there may be some lawyers in another municipality who think: We'd better be 10 m on the safe side of the fence. I would just like to ask, and I am sure the questioner will agree with that: go to the line and get these out of the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152133	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152134	At least I agree with that, that is to say, we must challenge the opportunities that exist. That is an invitation I would like to share with the Minister for Justice, no doubt about it. I do not really have any more questions on this subject, because I think it sounds like the Minister is very good about it, and I look forward, of course, to being called up for some information on this at a later stage. I would just like to say, as a starting line, that the Minister has the full support of the Danish People's Party to strike hard on this area. We want bikers and gang members out of their clubhouses so that any action that can bring us one step closer to that, the Minister can count on support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152214	Thank you. At any rate, I can give the promise that Mr. Peter Kofod will be invited to discuss this when we have a little more to say about it. And then we have to look at whether we cannot together help the municipalities even more and encourage the municipalities to pay close attention to applying the rules that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152230	Thank you. That was the end of Question 3. Question 4 has been put to the Minister for Justice, and that is also asked by Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152241	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that there is a political need to launch initiatives to help create a system of criminal justice where safety is increased and the working conditions of employees are improved?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152250	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152253	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that it is absolutely essential for me as a minister that we protect the people who go to work every day to ensure that there is order in the country's prisons. All employees must have secure working conditions, and criminal services must be a good and attractive workplace. As you know, it was also a key part of our multi-year agreement on criminal justice that security should be strengthened and that working conditions should be improved for our prison officers. And with the multi-year agreement, we are launching a series of initiatives with precisely that aim. There are, among other things: Two new reinforcement teams came to the floor, which I could not remember in connection with the previous questioner, with a total of 30 experienced prison officers who, since the end of August, have assisted their colleagues in the prisons and detentions that need extra help and support. Approx. Forty years' work for prison and detention units specially marked by gang members. Both initiatives must precisely help to focus efforts where the strain is greatest and in this way improve the safety and safety of employees. At the same time, criminal services are working hard to meet the current staff deficit, which can also help to challenge the prison officers in their daily lives. It is both about continuing the intensive efforts to recruit new prison officers and about constantly thinking about what tasks our officers are going to solve. In response to the assaults on prison officers we saw over the summer, I have decided to go further. Criminal services are therefore on the way with a completely new strategy for dealing with the most confrontational inmates, especially gang members who, in experience, are behind the vast majority of incidents of violence and threats to prison officers. And, of course, if it turns out later that further steps are needed, I am always prepared to look at what can be done. Security and security must return to the country's prisons, and that must apply to all of them. I think we owe it to our cops. And then we can keep discussing it and help each other get around it all the way in our conciliation meetings, and now we have a meeting next week where we might be able to discuss this a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152503	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152504	Thank you for your answer. I do not think anyone can be in any doubt that we are also faced with some tremendous challenges in our criminal services, where it seems that we are simply under a craziest pressure on several sides, both in relation to the raison d'être which is where a large proportion of the inmates are deeply criminal and hard-boiled gang members, whom we have to deal with very carefully, but also because of the situation that has not yet been delivered on the part relating to the number of employees, that is to say the number of prison officers. This is particularly the part that goes on about the lack of prison officers who make us very worried. Because it is quite clear that the fact that there are enough officers is of course what is essential for you to have a professional sparring about what you go and do in your daily work, and that is really important. Because it's very important that you keep this professional pride, professional pride, about what you're dealing with. That's one thing. The second point is that there is a very clear aspect of security in that you are enough people, so that you know that if something happens, help is close, you should not fear anything, because then there are colleagues who can intervene. At the same time, we know that, unfortunately, there is still a high level of absenteeism in the field of criminal justice. There may be many reasons for this, but I think we have to say that our employees are running really, really fast. So this is the recruitment part that I am actually looking for, because that is where we can really do something, that is, if we could recruit the number of prison officers that I actually think we in the conciliation circle are quite agreeable as to whether we are missing. It's not like we're asking for the big stuff. We are just asking that we can achieve what we have jointly promised each other, and there I would like to hear from the Minister whether there are new initiatives coming from the government in relation to the ability to solve and deliver on the recruitment part.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152705	It's a big challenge. I am in total agreement with what the questioner says, and that is the kind of reflection on it. An intensive recruitment effort has been launched with campaigns, including: on social media, and this has led to a very large number of applicants in 2018. There are more than 500 who have applied. 122 police students were admitted in 2018. That's the highest number in years. But despite the fact that we've got several prison officers in, we still have a challenge around the exit. That's where we're challenged. And that's why this can't stand alone. It's also about sick absence and all the other things we've agreed on. So next week, in the conciliation circle, we will simply discuss this with recruitment even more and also with how we maintain it. Because we simply have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152758	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152759	I am glad to hear that, and I look forward very much to that meeting. Recently, a press release was issued from the Prisons Association, where there were such three concrete proposals on what to do if you want to solve some of the problems they face. And one of the parts I would like to ask the Minister is that the prison association has apparently been inspired by what we have done for the police, i.e. set up a school in the West of Denmark. I would like to ask the Minister what he thinks of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152832	When it comes to the police, it is a good example of the politicians being very convinced that it would be good for busy people and that everyone else thought it was a bad idea. It turned out to be good for busy. I will go to that discussion without prejudice. I would certainly not rule out the possibility of this being an idea too, and I think we should take such an open debate on this, which takes a little longer than we have at our disposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152855	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152856	It is also a discussion I would like to take, but I understand that we are postponing until the conciliation meeting. But I think it is an incredibly exciting proposal, let me put it this way. Another part of what the Prison Association has mentioned is flexibility in guard planning. I think that is also relevant. I hope, as a starting point, that the Minister may be able to make some comments on the fact that it is the case today that we take account of our staff out there and ensure that they are involved in these things. But it may be that the Minister can put a few words on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107152930	I don't think that's too many. I feel that I certainly hope that the professional organisations and management have a very good dialogue on this. It is also my impression of moving forward. However, in the context of what we talked about with security and security efforts, a number of measures are currently being considered in the new strategy. The working group looks at, for example: increased use of handcuffs and handcuffs in cell doors and to strengthen security training for prison officers. That is all we want to do and have a good talk with each other about, because we have a common interest in resolving it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153004	Thank you. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod. We move on to the next question to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153018	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of the apparent lack of control over the cash flows of halal certification fees?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153028	Thank you for the question. I would like to begin by saying that, of course, I cannot comment on labelling schemes and controls or cash flows in the food sector. However, the questioner has now referred to my answer to question 905 from the Committee on the Environment and Food on the monitoring that money from halal certifications is not used to support terrorist organisations, Islamic organisations or the promotion of Sharia. What I can say on that question today is basically the same as I said in my written reply. The task of PET is to prevent, investigate and counteract crimes against the State's independence and security, as well as crimes against the Constitution and the Supreme State authorities. As part of PET's work, PET must, of course, focus on possible financial traces in order to identify possible terrorist financing. I cannot, within the framework of a parliamentary reply, answer the question of the work of the secret service. I'm sorry, but I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153129	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153130	That's just not good enough, sir. Minister of Justice, I'm sorry. I have tried in 117 different ways to ask for different themes about halal, including the charges. The tax paid by some companies is, I am aware, mainly levied by the Islamic Cultural Centre here in Denmark, which has some sort of relation to the World Muslim League, which is Saudi Arabia-based, and in particular the latter organisation is one with which we very, very much do not want to be associated. They promote hard-boiled Islam, the Saudi version of Islam, they are very conservative, expressed support for the death penalty for homosexuals, the fight against democracy, women's oppression and general Sharia propaganda. That is why I think it is actually a really relevant question to ask a Minister for Justice: how to ensure the control between the two organisations, of the cash flows that are there? Is anyone there at all? How much money is being transferred? What are they used for? So once they get to Saudi Arabia, does the money disappear? Or what's going on? I have read the Minister's reply and I have to admit that a number of general descriptions of what PET's tasks are and are not, but then it gets to hang there and then the Minister will not answer any more. I am just about to say that there is no smoke of a fire without fire, and I must confess that I think I smell smoke in the answer given by the Minister. You have to be able to say something like: Dear Claus Kvist Hansen, everything is under control, you don't have to worry, we've got every transaction going on. Or what? And now I'm gonna ask you an open question, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153318	At any rate, I will not say that, and the questioner also said that there appears to be no control over the cash flows and so on. That, among other things. Is PET's task, after all, to look at this in general terms: are there cash flows going to wrong places? And what are they used for? That task solves PET. And it is not because I, as Minister of Justice, am particularly opposed to saying anything at all, but it is simply because we are talking about something that I cannot answer. We have a body in the Folketing when it comes to the work of the secret service, and that is where we can talk about this kind of thing, and it is not because I do not want to, but it is because I cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153357	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153359	Should I simply understand that the Minister himself does not know the answer? Then I actually get worried first. We live for a while and now I try to tone down my criticism of the halal concept a little • where, for some reason, you have a system where a religious tax has to be paid on a large number of, probably the vast majority, meat productions in the Danish food sector. It's bad enough in itself. When it happens and you know that the money goes somewhere where there might be a red lamp that blinks, then I would really hope and expect the red lamp to start blinking somewhere. I mean, doesn't the Minister know the answer himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153439	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153439-2	However, we are just in the middle of something where what PET was or was not allowed to work on, what I, as Minister, am informed of or are not informed of, cannot and must not stand here and answer openly in the Parliamentary Chamber. It's just reality when we're dealing with this, that is, everything that's about PET's business, or when we're looking at how to deal with Islamic extremism and cash flows in it. What may be there is a lot of focus on PET, but I cannot, as a minister, stand here and answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153520	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153521	I'm really worried. We live in a time of money laundering scandals, we live in a time of illegal cash flows from exchange agencies, we live at a time when there is a focus on cash flows, and I would not say that it is daily, but it is regularly that we have nasty stories that money has gone to wrong purposes and supports, what should we say, organisations that we just by no means care about. This one's obvious to look at, and I don't know what my next step is gonna be. Are you going to call the Minister for a closed consultation to get an answer to my questions? 'Cause, of course, I'm not gonna stop until I know what's up and down in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153556	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153557	I think I must be honest and say that I do not think we are going to get to a point where I can sense that the questioner will be satisfied. Because if you are going to have to know things about specific operations, we have one place where the questioner's own party is also represented, and that is in the Control Committee. That is why I will never be able to answer any of the investigative steps that PET may have or may not have taken, because I cannot. It's not about whether I know anything or not, but I just can't, and that's the game rules. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153632	Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, and I would like to say that the President very much appreciates the fact that the Minister of Justice is complying with the rules under which he is governed and cannot disclose it down here in the Chamber of Parliament. It is not because the Minister does not want to give an answer, but the Minister must not, because it is a criminal offence for the Minister if the Minister should disclose such things down here in the Chamber. And the Minister has explained where these cases can be disclosed. It was information for those who might be listening to it and find it strange that the Minister is not answering. But we have strict rules. The Minister must not be allowed, otherwise the Minister would be willing to punish. So that was an explanation for it. Thank you, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, and I hope that the Minister could accept the President's intervention in this matter. Thank you.). Thank you. Then we move on to the next question (Spm. No. S 194). It's for the Minister of Finance, and that's what Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153733	Does the Minister agree with the Minister for Employment that in a future economic plan the Left will carry out labour supply reforms after a elections in 2019 and would the Minister deny that a vote on the Left will therefore lead to a vote in favour of the Danes staying longer on the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153749	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153754	Sometimes I just wish I could answer yes or no to one question, but when you put two elements together in the question, I cannot just give one answer. So let me put it this way: I want there to be an extension of the labour supply in Denmark from the very simple point of view that what makes a country rich is how much one works and how wise one works, i.e. what productivity there is in Denmark; what productivity there is in every working hour we have, plus times how many hours we work. So the more Danes we get to work, the better it is. The reforms that have been implemented since 2006 have actually helped to move a quarter of a million Danes into the labour market and employment when we arrive and they have been fully phased in by 2025. This makes Denmark richer and more prosperous. I want Denmark to continue to do so, and that is why I want to carry out labour market reforms that will enable us to become more people working in Denmark. Do I think that we should raise the retirement age more than has already been agreed? No, I don't. We have discussed that proposal and the government does not have a proposal to increase the retirement age beyond what has been agreed in the broad agreement with, among other things, the United Kingdom. Social democracy. On the other hand, I want us to do something to make it more attractive to work, among other things. by looking at the set-off rules and the tax rules that exist if you are working, while at the same time receiving a retirement pension. Because there are opportunities to make it more attractive for people to choose to stay. And one of the most positive things I have seen on the labour market in recent years is the tendency that more elderly people, from 60 to 64 years of age, but also, when they have passed the retirement age, actually choose to stay on the labour market, choose to contribute, to have colleagues and networks and to help make Denmark rich and prosperous, even if they have reached retirement age. We can support this if we help to ensure that the rules mean that you can keep a little more of what you earn to yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153951	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107153952	Well, the reason I'm asking is that not many days ago, namely on 30 October, the Minister for Employment said that there will be an election in 2019 and we know that and then he hopes that reforms will be made that will strengthen the work supply. So far, so good. And that is what the Minister of Finance has just explained here. But what is a bit of a concern is that if we look at the overall plan of the then Left Government, that is, before we got the VLAK government, we see that the overall plan actually stated that the Left wanted to raise the retirement age by another six months. That is why my question. Can we then be sure that this plan and this idea have been put away and buried so that there will not be a proposal that we should raise the retirement age by another six months?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154047	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154048	That is really just a repeat of the answer I gave at the beginning, because that is where I replied to the question put by the questioner. It is true that the Left put forward a comprehensive plan. We have also tried to negotiate it and we can see that none of the current governing parties will be willing to implement the overall plan unchanged. Therefore, we have also chosen to scrap several parts of it, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Because we have a deal. It sometimes sounds as if the Social Democratic Party forgets that there is an agreement about the retirement age. There is the agreement that, as we live longer, we also regulate the retirement age, which actually means that when we get here on 1 January 2019, the first small step will be to increase the retirement age. That is what makes it possible for us to look into a future economy, not just next year, but in the medium and long term, where the Danish economy is much stronger than it would have been if we had not made that agreement back in 2007.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154157	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154158	On the one hand, I may be somewhat reassured by what the Minister of Finance says, but on the other hand, I can also be a little worried, because if an election would mean a substantial change in the terms of office, then I still hear the Minister of Finance say that it is still the Left's goal to be able to extend the retirement age by another six months. Is that correct? In other words, if the Left had mandates for it, will it still be the wish of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154226	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154227	No, it's not. After all, I am not here as a representative of the Left but as a representative of the government. In other contexts, we shall probably have the opportunity to discuss this party politically, but neither the Left nor the government has a proposal to increase the retirement age. We have a desire to increase labour supply, and this can be done in many ways. A simple example of this: The government has proposed raising the so-called free amount, which is what you can earn next to the SU when you go to higher education, and if we increase the free amount by DKK 1,000, as the government has proposed, it will mean that a number of students will work more, or they may also seek to find work that is more study-relevant, and that will increase the job supply in Denmark. This will benefit both students and the labour market, and for some it will mean that they would get a much more relevant job for their study. So I think it would be good and that increasing labour supply would be positive in terms of being able to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154323	Sir. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154324	Yes, but what is my purpose here is to clarify whether we can expect a government with the Left, in which the Left is also represented after an election, still has the idea of extending the retirement age by six months, because I do not hear the Minister of Finance rejecting that. He's just saying that at this point, there's no way. I therefore ask what can be expected of a government in which the Left is also present in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154355	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154356	If you don't want to hear it, it can be hard. So let me just say it very briefly. The Left has no plans to increase the retirement age either on this side or on the other side of a parliamentary election. We have a desire to increase labour supply, and then there are some who make a portrait of the fact that increasing labour supply can only be done by making cuts. In fact, this can also be done by improving conditions; better to get more quickly into the labour market; better to stay longer on the labour market instead of retiring; or better to spend a few more hours while on the labour market. So there are many ways to increase labour supply, and we work on the part of the government to use as many of the ways as possible to make Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154439	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Finance and to Mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. We move on to the next question put to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154457	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: How can it be that with the utmost ease the Minister can find several hundred million kroner for the country's richest municipalities in North Zealand and Copenhagen when he can't find 8-9 million? kr. to Læsø so they can balance the budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154515	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154517	Despite the linguistic quirkiness of the questioner in the wording, it is a little more complicated than that. These are two exceptional situations which have led the government to propose that municipalities over most of the country have a two-year transition period in order to be compensated for some very sudden losses. One is an agreement we entered into in the early summer with the National Association of Municipalities, i.e. the annual economic agreement. Due to the fact that Danmarks Statistik has revised the statistics on the level of education of the citizens used in the calculation of two criteria in the compensation, a number of municipalities suffered a very sudden loss. There we have decided to make a transitional arrangement of 1.1 billion. kr. in each of the years 2019 and 2020. It has subsequently become apparent that another exceptional situation has also given rise to shifts in the compensation system. It is about the allocation rules for older people and adults with disabilities. That is why, in parallel with the first transitional arrangement, the government has sought a majority for a second transitional arrangement of twice 0.7 billion. kr. In relation to the last scheme, I must inform the questioner that the municipality of Læsø is one of the municipalities that benefit from this scheme and that it is not only municipalities in Nordsjælland and Copenhagen. In addition, Læsø gets among other things. island subsidies and special grants pursuant to Article 16 of the Equalisation Act. As an island municipality, the municipality of Læsø receives an island grant of 24.7 million for 2019. kr., and in addition there is a special grant pool under Section 16 of the Compensation Act. Læsø had applied for 14 million. kr., but got just over 5 million. kr. announced by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior. So these are two very different cases, which are even mixed together in such a way that one has not discovered that Læsø Municipality has actually also received something from the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154723	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154724	Thank you for answering my question. The minister can do something that not many others can. He can make it sound like there are paradise conditions on Læsø. That is by no means the case. A budget with a deficit of 8 to 9 million has been handed in. kr., and that's why I ask. Can't the Minister just explain it for the record? Because there's a lot of spin in this. The municipalities which have been paid 2.07 billion. kr., had received too much for a number of years, and the minister then uses the expression that it is because they have been exposed to some sudden losses. However, all the municipalities had received far too much money compared to a number of other municipalities because there were errors in the equalisation of the level of competence of foreigners. That is why we are left with the Minister to answer how it may be that some municipalities have so much difficulty in getting things together as for example. Læsø. I can guarantee the Minister that the municipal council on Læsø has spent several meetings trying to figure out how to make this budget work together, unlike what they have done in Gentofte and Copenhagen, where they have spent so many meetings trying to figure out how to spend all the money they have been allocated. There's a world of difference. And the Minister is well placed in the world to ensure that you have an amount to run school, care for the elderly and other things for, so we have a country in balance. So we do not have that today, because Læsø is under great pressure. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154856	I fully recognise that there are different conditions in the 98 different municipalities. This also follows in some way from the fact that we have municipal autonomy. I would also like to say that I am also aware of the situation on Læsø, as I have received a request from the municipality about the economic situation. This is also why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior has entered into dialogue with Læsø Municipality on how we can help them, in terms of how they can prioritize responsibly and adopt a budget in balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154930	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107154931	Yes, and that's fine, but there hasn't been sensitivity yet, although before the budget was adopted there was also dialogue between Læsø Municipality and the Ministry of the Interior, I understand. And if that can lead to the Minister finding some more money, then he should be welcome to it, because it is not sustainable in the long run that the smallest municipality in the country will have to hand in a budget with such a large deficit as is the case here. That is why, of course, the rules on island subsidies and everything else are fine, but we are in an extraordinary situation, and there is what I would like to hear from the Minister for the Interior about having a budget with such a large deficit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155014	I would like to inform the Danish Parliament that the special grant that we have awarded to Læsø Municipality for 2019 is actually slightly larger than what we allocated for 2018. And in addition Læsø, if we get through the Danish Parliament with our wish to get the second transitional period, will also receive an amount there. So there are actually two places where you get an extra amount in 2019 compared to 2018. We have proposed transitional arrangements where something extraordinary has changed it from 2018 to 2019. That is where we have made the transitional arrangements. If, moreover, there is no exceptional situation, we have not proposed transitional arrangements, and it is therefore the responsibility of each municipality to have a budget in balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155058	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155059	I believe that the municipality of Læsø will say that it is an extraordinary situation that they have to deliver a budget with such a large deficit. And in other municipalities, of course, you look at structure and various other things, if you are suddenly challenged by events and we can see that. Then there's a fight about whether you have to close schools or something else. What is it that the Minister imagines to close? I would like to point out that you only have one school on Læsø, you only have one nursing home, etc. How is it that the minister who sits over here on his chair in Copenhagen sees that you can make a budget on Læsø with the funds allocated to them so that it is balanced?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155136-2	First of all, it is important that we stick to local self-government and do not make an illusion for the people that it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior who has to make a budget for the 98 municipalities. It is up to the local authorities to do so. I have had a meeting with Læsø's mayor and administrative management and have been given the opportunity to hear about their situation. We have awarded a special grant that is higher in 2019 than it was in 2018, and we propose a transitional arrangement that Læsø Municipality will also benefit from. It is just so it is quite clear that that is what the factual circumstances are. Well, of course I am, just like sir. Bjarne Laustsen, informed that it is difficult to save a school if there is only one school I fully acknowledge but we have said from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs that now we have a dialogue with the municipality of Læsø about looking at what you can actually do in relation to the budget, and that is the dialogue that is going on now. And then it would be wrong for me to draw conclusions before that dialogue has been completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155234	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and thank you to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. We move on to Question 9, which is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155248	Thank you. In view of the fact that the Council of Europe has just adopted a resolution calling for an end to foreign funding of political activities camouflaged as religion, particularly Turkish activities in Europe, will the Minister state whether there is no danger that the Turkish mosques are a threat to integration and inhabiting critics of Erdogan?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155314	In Resolution 2237 of the Council of Europe, the Council calls for greater transparency in foreign aid. And that is exactly what the government has done. In December last year, the church minister presented a new bill on religions outside the church, and a broad majority in the Danish Parliament voted for it, including the Danish People's Party. The Law obliges recognized religions in Denmark to be open about their finances and donations to religions. Danish Turkish Islamic Foundation is recognised as a religion in Denmark, and therefore it is also subject to the requirements of openness for funding and supervision laid down in the Religious Act. Similarly, more stringent demands have been made on the area of supervision of free schools, since this is a matter of transparency about donations. The government has also decided that general associations should provide information on foreign aid of more than DKr 20,000. to be approved by the tax authorities. For the government, it is crucial that you can see where recognised religions, schools and associations in Denmark get their money from, so that we can thus have clarity as to who is really behind them. At the same time, of course, support is not in itself problematic, but the problem is, of course, if it is support for schools and associations that help to counter and undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. Personally, I think it would be more natural for a religion in Denmark, including Turkish, to train their preachers themselves than to send them to a foreign country. I have no basis for assessing how certain religions, schools and associations affect integration, but we can and must of course demand that foreign publishers comply with Danish law. The government has also indicated that we are looking at whether there is a need to regulate the issue of donations further.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155551	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155552	Well, thank you for the answer. So the more Turkish mosques are being built in Europe, including Denmark. And there are some of us who are quite concerned about that. And the concern was so voiced in the recent Council of Europe resolution, and that is why I am asking the question. Because this is a long-standing matter; it is a long-standing development. Because it has been recognized for a long time, I believe, in broad circles, that there are integration problems associated with these mosques. There are, among other things: a French professor of Turkish origin, I think he is, because his name is Samim Akgönül ^ that sounds pretty Turkish. He has examined the Friday sermons in the Turkish mosques in France and they are the same as in Denmark, because they are sent out every Friday from the Turkish Ministry of Religion, so they are the same all over the world. And he concludes that these Friday sermons are marked by political and national messages and by a very conservative interpretation of Islam. This is a clear attempt to influence the Turks living in Europe, outside Turkey, with a form of Islam and political conviction close to the line taken by President Erdogan. And it doesn't look so much like the Danish or French line. And that, I believe, creates obstacles to integration. It can be said that the mosques are used to retain Turkish Muslims in a Turkish and Orthodox Islamic identity. At the same time, the mosques are also used to keep an eye on the attitudes of resident Turks. The former religious adviser at the Turkish Embassy in Copenhagen has said that the embassy collected information about Danish Turks in connection with the case of the Gülen movement. In other words, Turkish conflicts are in some way exported to Denmark. It is also a way to make it harder for resident Turks to become Danes, i.e.. to be integrated. Does the Minister not think that all this must affect the integration of Turkish minorities in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155804	That is also why I said that I and the government think it is quite natural that if you want to serve as a religion in Denmark, then it cannot be the intention, for example, that you should be able to do so. must send his imams on education abroad. It is, of course, a clear signal that if you live in Denmark, then you have to take the Danish set of values into account, and then, of course, you should not in some way try to impose on someone or live with a set of values that belongs to a completely foreign country and a completely foreign culture. So I really don't think we're so disagreeable about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155849	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155851	Of course, I'm glad to hear that. But I am a little concerned to hear that in his first reply, that is to say the prepared answer, the Minister said that he was not on the basis of which to assess whether the Turkish mosques and the funding they receive contribute negatively to integration. I should like to ask the Minister: is the Minister not interested in finding out? Shouldn't we get that information? I really believe that there is sufficient information to say that they do not make a positive contribution. But should the Minister not try to carry out some studies which could serve as the basis for a decision-making plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155940	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107155941	I wouldn't deny it at all. I think it is more a question of how to do it, so you are sure that you also get a true picture. Because we can also imagine a situation in which we like to ask about some of these things and try to investigate them, but where you are also well aware of how to answer in order to get out of the claws, if I may say so. Because there is no doubt at all that when you are in Denmark, you also have to comply with Danish legislation, and that also means that there is a limit to what we should add Danish soil to. That's one of them. also why we have made a hate preacher list. There are quite simply people we do not want at all within the doors of, for example. to preach in the mosques.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160028	The questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160029	It is true, of course, that it is absolutely essential that you comply with Danish law when you are in Denmark and that it is also an important part of integration, but we can also say that there are several aspects to it. And if there are organisations which, with very strong means, maintain people in a national religious identity, which is in stark contrast to the Danish tradition, then I think one should realise that it does not contribute positively to integration. And then I think it must be important to identify the extent to which this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160109	There I say that I think that might be a good idea at first sight. Then we'll just try to figure out how to do it. I would say that we have had an example. Now it was not a Turkish mosque, but we had an example where TV 2 uncovered what was going on in mosques in Denmark, and I must say that was depressing broadcasts they sent. I have to admit, I may not have been so surprised, but it was depressing anyway. Hopefully, some people also realized these problems that haven't had their eyes opened before and focused on this problem. So I'm not going to deny that you can try to get closer to this. I think that the problem is mostly about how to do it, so that you get a true picture so that you do not just get some answers that look good, but then you get some real answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160204	Thank you. That was the end of Question 9. We shall proceed to Question 10, which is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and by the same question, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160213	Here's the questioner for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160216	Thank you. Will it not be due care that the Danish Government is now being examined whether it is necessary to work for a ban on foreign funding of Danish Turkish Islamic Foundations mosques and schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160229	Here you go to the Minister for Reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160232	So, immediate support and foreign support for religious organizations is not necessarily a problem. There are, for example: some Christian congregations in Denmark, which receive foreign support, and we also support the Danish church abroad. So in this way it can be said that there is no problem with foreign aid. However, foreign support for religious buildings and schools can, to the extent that I fully agree with the questioner, be problematic if the support contributes to ■ and I think that is what is being asked to counter and undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights, for example. if the aid is intended to support parallel societies and parallel legal perceptions in Denmark. Because if you live in Denmark, you must of course take Denmark to heart and thus also the set of values and the very foundations and foundations on which Denmark is built. That is why, in the government too, we have taken the initiative for a number of agreements to help to put an end to the parallel societies in Denmark. With the preaching agreement, the government has introduced a national list of sanctions which, after all, prevents foreign religious preachers with rabid attitudes from entering Denmark at all, and last December we adopted a new law of religion with a broad majority in the Folketing. The Law obliges recognized religions in Denmark to be open about their economy and about donations to religions. Danish Turkish Islamic Foundation is today recognised as a religion in Denmark and therefore also subject to the requirements of openness for funding and supervision laid down in the law on religions outside the church. As far as school is concerned, in the free school area, several agreements have been made on openness with donations to these schools and specifically on a ban on anonymous donations of more than DKK 20,000. In addition, supervision of the school's compliance with the requirements of independence, freedom and popular rule has been strengthened on several occasions. So we have a big focus on foreign donations from the government, and of course we also keep following up on this and following up on it, also to see if more can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160508	The questioner for two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160509	Thank you for your answer. The resolution of the Council of Europe simply calls for it to be possible to stop foreign funding of religious communities if they oppose integration or they really affect politically. I therefore believe that we should examine whether the same can be done in Denmark, and I think it is quite obvious that the Turkish mosques are also other mosques, I would say working against the integration of immigrants or refugees who have come here. There are some countries that are starting to do something. Austria has closed a number of mosques after a scandal this summer with an orthodox Turkish association. But even before that, foreign funding of religious religions has been banned in Austria. In England, rules have been adopted on much more detailed information about where religious communities get their money, and we ourselves have also tightened up the legislation on cash flows to religious communities in Denmark. I think there are some questions that still remain, about anonymous donations, etc., and where you might be able to tighten up. However, the question is whether it would not be better to stop traffic completely with money from abroad if it could be shown that it is countering integration. And that is where I would like to go back to the question we had before. I am in some way a little surprised that we do not have studies showing whether it has a positive or a negative impact on integration, that there are these foreign-funded and directly foreign-controlled religions. So will the Minister not initiate such an investigation at my request and certainly at the request of my entire party so that we can see if there is a basis for us to proceed with a plan of action to possibly find ways to stop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160729	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160730	I think it is just as good that we can be honest and say that we all know very well that there are some mosques that contribute very negatively to integration and directly support parallel societies and also parallel perceptions of what sets of values we should live by in Denmark. That's why we broadly agreed to simply try to figure out what kind of donations are coming to these mosques. I think it's as good as being honest about that. As to whether an investigation should be initiated, I would simply refer to what I said before: I have nothing at all against, actually on the contrary, an investigation of this kind. It is more a question of how to ensure that it is also valid, so that you not only get the answers that the participants can figure out is best to give if they want to avoid interference on our part, but so that you get a completely real and fair picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160832	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160833	It is only a matter of method and, of course, it can be done, I think, if you think about and set up talented people. My basic view is that if we have an area here that prevents integration, then we have to do something about it. So, I do not think the Minister can disagree with me because now the Minister's title is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and then we cannot leave an area that is opposed to integration. Then we need to get started on making decisions that can improve integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107160913	Yes, I fully agree with that, and that is one of them. And that is why we have adopted more stringent measures in this area, in other words both to follow the money to a greater extent than was done in the past, and also to say that there are simply people we will not let into Denmark at all. So far, this has been our step towards what Mrs Krarup wants, and we will have to see if more and more is needed. That is also why I concluded my reply in the first round by saying that we are constantly hunting to see if there is anything else to do and whether we are doing it well enough. I can also have my doubts as to whether we are doing well enough in this area, so I do not disagree. I am more concerned that we can find the method, but we can then discuss it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161005	The questioner to the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161006	Well, I'm glad. I think it is important to get such an investigation under way and I do not think it necessarily has to be confined to the Turkish mosques. I would recommend looking at others as well. We know that very large amounts are also being paid from Saudi Arabia and that there is a strong Wahabist influence in many European countries, including probably also in Denmark. It will be important to identify those areas so that you have a basis for a plan of action so that you can start doing something positive in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161044	Well, I can at least say that I have understood the message, and then we have to take it from there. Fortunately, we have the opportunity to discuss these issues often, so the message has certainly been heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161100	Thank you to the questioner and to the Minister. That was the end of Question 10. Question 11, which is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161112	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161115	Thank you, Madam President. The question is: does the Minister think that it is quite fair and in accordance with the best interests of the child that the Foreigner's Board is showing children like Mint and Aphinya on the grounds that they cannot be integrated when they are already integrated in Denmark and that as a result they cannot be allowed to live together their mother here in Denmark, but are deported to Thailand or have to live in exile in Germany?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161141	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161143	The questioner wants me to deal with two specific cases of family reunification, which have been dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Council. As I know the questioner is already aware, it is indeed the case that decisions on family reunification are taken by the Foreigners' Board at first instance and that the decisions of the Foreigners' Board can be appealed to the Foreigners' Board, which is an independent judicial body, and that the decisions of the Foreigners' Board are final, that is, within the administrative system, but that they can of course be brought before the courts. That is also the case, and I know that the questioner is also aware that I cannot, as a minister, go into specific matters decided by the Foreign Affairs Council or the Foreigners' Board, and I would also like to point out that we cannot, of course, stand here in the Parliamentary Chamber and discuss very personal information which is at issue here about very specific people in these matters. I assume the questioner agrees with me on this, although it has to be said that the question raises something a little different. But it is a completely established principle that it cannot and must not be. Having said that, I would also like to say that I can easily understand the families to which the questioner refers and that, of course, they have a strong wish that matters should have come out in a different way, but I must also say that I am confident that the immigration authorities are making a thorough assessment of these matters and, of course, I trust that the competent authorities will deal with matters as they should and according to the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161338	The questioner with his 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161340	Thank you. Thank you for answering my question. I fully understand the problems that the Minister may have, but these are matters which have been well described and which the families themselves have put forward. They have done so in both B.T., Nordjyske, TV2 Nord and a large number of other media, where they have told about how they have come here, how they have been integrated, etc. In the case of Aphinya, about which I have also written to the Minister, I have been given a mandate, and I understand that the Minister cannot go into it in this way, but I have read all the supporting documents in the case, and what is still a little strange about it was that it was not a unanimous decision, because it was a 2-one decision. Two years ago, the Minister did not want to answer any of the questions that the rapporteur had, and I am thinking of the people whom the Minister says she trusts here, and I understand that, but they have doubts about how to deal with these matters. It is the case, for example, that... in the case of Aphinya from Farsø, it is considered that, although we had postponed the case for six months, there was not in the new information that had come into the case that integration went even better, brought something about how her integration took place, the statements of the school, all the activities she was involved in, comrades or herself, or that she spoke almost perfectly Danish. After all, these are model students that the school is happy about, the community is happy about, so I don't see why there shouldn't be room for those who are shining examples of those who want Denmark. After all, they have managed to achieve integration in record time, and that is why I find it a little strange that we should use the reason that they are not integratable when they are already integrated. The Minister must find that strange too, must he not?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161536	I must honestly admit that I do not think it is quite right to discuss matters in this way when we are not allowed to discuss matters in this way, Mr President. Bjarne Laustsen. So there are very, very specific rules for us not to be able to discuss sensitive personal information, and that is why there is no point in trying to keep going. But that, sir. Bjarne Laustsen could then try to tell me, is why sir. Bjarne Laustsen did not raise this criticism, since the Socialists themselves were involved in the legislation. I can also say that the other day I was in a debate with one of Mr. Bjarne Laustsen's Social Democratic colleagues, sir. Thomas Jensen, on TV Midwest, who totally supported these rules in their basic principles. But that doesn't change the fact that each of us can also feel that it's obviously hard for these families. We're well aware of that, but sir... Bjarne Laustsen just needs to explain to me about sir. Bjarne Laustsen slept an hour when these things were discussed, because then you heard nothing from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161648	I think the Minister knows the questioner very well, and I think it is a rare time that the Minister has seen you sit and sleep. I know that our rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dan Jørgensen asked the Minister for Public Affairs repeatedly if the Minister would not explain it. The Minister remained in his place, and it is after all the Minister's right to remain seated and not answer those questions. I know that our present rapporteur, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye, has asked a number of questions that have not yet been answered. So it is not the case in the Social Democratic Party that we do not want to discuss these things. We need to get some questions, and the person-sensitive information I can't see is in this case, because you can read it all in the paper. That is why I just think that the Minister owes it to a general one. It has nothing to do with the specific case to explain the fact that you use as a reason that they cannot be integrated when they are integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161742	But I just want to say to Mr. Simpson... Bjarne Laustsen again: we must not, we cannot discuss this kind of person-sensitive information in the Parliamentary Chamber. It would simply not be fair for the people concerned either. Well, then, sir. Bjarne Laustsen does not necessarily know whether everything is in the paper, whether everything is complete and fully lit. I don't think so. Bjarne Laustsen can put his head on the block like that. Having said that, none of us can sympathize with these families, but I would like to say to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, that if these women had just brought their children to Denmark from the beginning and had not left their children in Thailand for a number of years before they were brought up here, we had not been standing here today. That's why the guidance of these people may be the solution to these problems forward-looking. If you had just brought your children instead of leaving them in Thailand for a number of years, we would never have been here. I think that is so important to say. I personally find it strange that you leave your child in Thailand for a number of years before you seek family reunification for the child. But I don't have to decide why it's been chosen. I can only say that it is so crucial that you bring that child from the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107161904	Thank you. I also know the Minister as extremely industrious, and I think she has read my letter of reading, where I write that I say to these people that if you meet a woman, it may be from another country that has a child, you take the whole package and thus understand that Denmark does too. If you can give room to the mother, you should also give it to the child, and I quite share the idea that you should get rid of it. But I simply do not understand why the Minister is not going to deal with these questions as to how it might be that a solution cannot be found, and the Minister is using it here that I should have a particular point of view in relation to my own party. We were in complete agreement. In 2013, the Minister, who went into the case of Im at the time, was able to see that there was a problem in terms of changing the law. At the time, we were almost allies, and now I'm just asking that the same thing might happen here. There are some people who have been put in a situation where they cannot be together as a family, and there I do not think it is the task of the state to tear the families apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162009	The two cases are completely diametrically different, because if you take the case of Im, it was the case that Im had a residence permit in Denmark. Then her stepfather dies, and then you take the residence permit from her, and that's why there was a hole in the law. We changed that. These children do not have a residence permit in Denmark because their mothers have left them in Thailand. They're looking for a residence permit, and then it's dropped out, so they've got a no to this residence permit. That is why these two cases simply cannot be compared and if Mr. Bjarne Laustsen also makes it forward-looking, he is guilty of something that he is well aware of are two very different situations. So it is also not a question of breaking up families, because they are families that were not together but that they want to bring together in Denmark. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen will also have to accept that you also have to be honest and real if you want to discuss these things, and that is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen not currently.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162110	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 12, which is for the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate by Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162125	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162132	Thank you. The question is: when the government at home tries to convince the Danes that climate action is crucial, it is a wise priority that the Minister was away from the Council meeting where the EU's negotiating position for the climate summit and the EU's future regulation for the CO2 of cars
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162150	That was the question. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162154	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jens Joel for the question. On 9 October was the day of the launch of the government's climate and air emissions. It is the first global and most ambitious and effective climate change project outside the energy sector that has yet to be seen from a Danish government. It was an important day in Danish climate history, a day that I, as responsible climate minister, naturally had to prioritize and be a part of. Because I fully agree that it is essential to convince the Danes of the importance of climate action, and this is precisely what climate action is all about. With the climate action, we have set a sharp course towards achieving Denmark's climate targets by 2030 and at the same time set the tracks towards a climate neutral Denmark by 2050. Furthermore, we are sending out a clear signal to the rest of the European Union and the car industry that Denmark is heading towards a total green transition of the transport sector. We are therefore helping to show the way. Unfortunately, the launch meant that I could not take part in the Luxembourg Council, which was held on the same day. Of course, I am very sorry about that. But that did not mean that we did not sit on the bench on the Danish side during the Council meeting. I sent my highest-ranking official to the meeting, and we were at the forefront of pushing too high ambitions in relation to standards for light vehicles and the mandate for COP24 in Poland. There was no saving on the powder from the Danish side. And we're not gonna stop here. In the negotiations with the European Parliament, we are continuing to work hard for an increased level of ambition for light vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162327	Here's the questioner. It's two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162330	Thank you. The regulation of the CO2 emissions of cars, and I also agree with the government that this requires a very special effort. I am so a little surprised that the government has been very busy with the press story and stories about how much was actually done here I mention in a nutshell that according to Ritzau climate war has been declared against the EU car industry, a press release has been issued from the Ministry stating that Denmark will fight for significantly greener cars in the EU up to 2030. And yet the Minister chooses not to appear at the crucial meeting of the European Union, on the grounds that the government's climate action is presented, which, strictly speaking, you decide when to present. That is why it can be said that it could have been a different day from the day when, in the opinion of the government, the most important thing in the European Union is adopted. It might then be thought that this might have led to the Minister having a little lower cigar ring, but he did not, because the day after the meeting the Minister was disappointed with the result that had come out of the meeting. And when you say, as the Minister does the day after you are disappointed and that you have to send a very clear signal to the European car industry that the cars should be greener, does the Minister think that the clear signal is being sent that Denmark is not sending its climate minister to the meeting but is going away?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162507	I therefore agree that the best thing would have been for me to attend that meeting. I would also like to say that a very, very clear signal was sent. This has been done both in the previous negotiations, as was the case at the Luxembourg ministerial meeting, and it is also the case that this matter has not yet been concluded. After all, we are still putting massive pressure away, because unfortunately the outcome of the meeting showed that the other countries were far from being as ambitious as Denmark. And with the mandate given to me by the author's party, we were much higher. But what came out of the meeting was a proposal for 35%.'s CO2 The mandate I had received was at least 40%. in 2030. That is why there is still work to be done in relation to negotiations with the European Parliament to reach an overall solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162554	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162555	So I would just like to ask you a very brief question: does the Minister think that it matters whether Danish ministers are taking part in the Council meetings or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162607	It means very, very much that we take part in the Council meetings, and I give very, very high priority to being at the Council meetings. Since I became a minister, there have been 14 meetings where the Environment Ministers have met. At the 12 of the meetings there have been climate issues on the agenda, and out of the 12 meetings I have been to the 9. I think that is actually a very, very nice meeting rate. It is, of course, the case that at any time there may be situations where we need to prioritise, and in this context I gave priority to participating in the presentation of the government's climate and air projects, because it was a very, very important matter for the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162641	The questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162643	I understand that it is a very important matter for the government to appear green in the Danish debate, but since it is absolutely crucial for the climate action that we are actually getting the European Union to join, it could have been possible to put the press conference or presentation, which in parentheses was six months later than was actually planned, another day. When the Minister himself says that it matters that the ministers participate, do we not agree that when Denmark has a very significant point of view; if in fact Denmark will also go very far in regulating the car industry, perhaps towards some of the countries that have a car industry, then it is easier for those countries to overhear Denmark's point of view if there is not a minister? I am not accusing the Minister of not attending enough Council meetings. I am sure the Minister is diligent. However, I think this was a skewed priority if the Minister actually thinks what he said in the press that this was absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162737	This was absolutely crucial, and that was also why we were represented at the highest level of civil servants. It was the Departmental Manager of the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate who took part on behalf of Denmark with a very clear and clear signal and also a mandate from the questioner. A very, very clear signal was sent; it was in the previous debates, and there will be in the debates that are now being held in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162758	Thank you, Minister. And thank you to the questioner. The question is closed and so is Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181107162813	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 8 November 2018, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
