ParlaMint-DK_20181206100005	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100008	The item listed as No. 8 on today's agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100031	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 23 by Marie Krarup (DF), Mads Birded (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Nase Khader (KF). And a vote can be taken. Then we shall conclude the vote. in favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 23 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 24 by Mattia Tesfaye (S) and proposals for adoption No. V 25 by Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Søren Søndergaard (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100156	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals for this. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 27 by Mattia Tesfaye (S), Mads Birded (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting may be done. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 68 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 23 (DF), abstentions 15 (EL and ALT). Proposal for adoption No V 27 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 26 by Martin Henriksen (DF), draft resolution No. V 28 by Søren Søndergaard (EL) and proposals for adoption no. V 29 of Morten Østergaard (RV), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100309	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is. Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100331	Thank you. Social democracy, as we also said at first reading, agrees with the long-term objective of this proposal. However, we have been concerned and dissatisfied and believe that what the government did in relation to the transitional arrangements was insufficient in terms of ensuring the heating customers. Against this background, both before the first and between the first and the second treatment and between the second and third treatment, we have called for negotiations to find a solution that would better safeguard the heat customers around the country against price increases. This has led the government to table a number of amendments that we welcome, and we have also voted in favour of them, but we would have liked to have gone further to ensure that the heating customers are safe. This has been rejected by the government, and I really think that the Minister should explain this here in the platform, so why they will not respond further.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100433	Thank you. The next person who wishes to speak is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100445	Thank you. I thought the minister was gonna go on. So, Enhedslisten supports the amendments that have been tabled to the bill. The Enhedslisten is part of the energy settlement; we acknowledge that. We acknowledge that a solution must be found when an aid scheme expires. It has to be said that here we have something which has landed and which will lead to higher heat prices in some areas. We think that these negotiations have been marked by the fact that the negotiations stopped when the government arrived at a majority with the Danish People's Party. I do not think that is fair when we have an energy conciliation group with all parties. So when Enhedslisten is about to vote yellow, it's kind of the yellow card for the minister, because this course of negotiations has not been satisfactory. We are well aware that there needs to be a system. And that is why the process has called for this to be negotiated. And the negotiations ended then, when the Danish People's Party just joined what the Minister would extend to. We do not think that is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100555	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100600	We must also state our position on this bill now at the third reading. We have had the same concerns and participated in the part of the negotiations that has been about this, but have not really felt that much was being listened to either. But I actually think that, after all, we have landed at a level that we can vouch for, and we are part of the energy settlement. So we're voting for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100635	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206100642	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen and Mr. Christian Poll. The proposal here sets out the future support for electricity generation from biomass, the scheme we call the 15-year-old. The proposal implements part of the energy agreement of June, which all parties in the Folketing are behind. Let me begin by trying to explain why the draft law is actually a good idea. There are three reasons for this. Firstly, it is not wise to impose the cogeneration principle anymore. It has served us well, but as we get more green power from wind and sun, we do not need the cogeneration as we know it today. Secondly, it is both illegal and unreasonable to give 15 cents in aid per year. kilowatt-hour to green power from biomass infinity. We can get power a lot cheaper. This has also been demonstrated by the determined technology-neutral tender. Here we got green power for about 2 cents. Third, the State aid approval of the current scheme expires on 1 April 2019. It is therefore, overall, timely care now to have the 15-ear scheme phased out properly. The Government has put forward a proposal which has been discussed intensively. The government has listened to the criticism and incorporated a transitional arrangement into the bill. The transitional regime takes into account the fact that the plant may have reinvested in recent years, and we have even agreed during our discussions to further relax the transitional regime. At first reading, there were, among other things, a number of amendments. Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party, called for a discussion in the energy circle of the case before the final examination of the bill. That wish was also shared by Dansk Folkeparti, SF, Enhedslisten and Alternativet. In the conciliation circle we had another round of discussions on the consequences for heat consumers. The discussions included: on the part of the Social Democratic Party with Mr. Jens Joel led a considerable pressure on the government to be able to take more account of plants which, for example, had a slower phase-in of electricity generation on biomass or had ended up in a situation where significant heat price increases could occur. However, the Government has refused to meet these requests as it considers that this is not sufficiently justified and would lead to significant additional costs. It is the government's assessment that it is basically reasonable that the existing biomass-fired cogeneration plants can receive the support of 15 øre for 15 or 20 years. However, there is much evidence to suggest that some plants have used the subsidy to keep the heat price artificially low instead of writing off investments in time. When the aid comes to an end, the plants will, of course, have to raise the price of heat because they have pushed the depreciation ahead of them. If they had written off more in time over the 15 or 20 years, there would have been no need to raise the heat price. It is not reasonable in this situation to give warning of an increase in heating prices, which is equivalent to passing on the entire cancellation of the 15-ear support to the heat customers, thereby completely ignoring all the millions of support crowns that have been rolled into the account each year for up to 20 years. One can get the impression from the sector's criticism that the box is slammed in and that the aid is completely shut down. Nothing could be more wrong. The legislative proposal is, in my view, a very generous scheme in which electricity generation on biomass is supported by up to 7 billion. kr. up to 2030, and where more works continue to receive support after 2030, some up to 2039. Examples of concrete works have been mentioned here in Things and in public. In this connection, let me point out that block II of Avedoors is estimated to receive total aid of the order of 2.4 billion. kr., when the 15-ear subsidy expires in 2022. And let me also mention Rander's combined heat and power plant, which can be expected to receive a total grant of just under 400 million. kr., when their 15-ear subsidies expire in 2024 and it is significantly more than has been invested. I take it very seriously that this is a political agreement, which is why I am also confident that there will now be broad support for the legislative proposal. I hope that we can now jointly put a fly bone on one of the first elements of the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101120	Thank you, Minister. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101128	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101159	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101216	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 93 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101247	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101303	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 64 (DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 40 (S, EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101335	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101350	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101418	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101440	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101511	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101534	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Then we shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101604	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101621	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101649	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101715	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A will then be put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the Law on Financial Activities, the Law on Capital Markets and various other laws] (Implementation of the recommendations of the Working Party on the review of financial regulation and amendment of the rules for the designation of SIFIs in Denmark, etc.)PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-11, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. A vote is then taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a law amending the law on money laundering (Strengthening of money laundering rules)]: Request for a vote on Amendment No. 12 and 13, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101833	The debate is open and we will start by giving the floor to the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206101858	Thank you. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for tabling motion for a resolution No. B 21, which deals with the right of parents to complain about the lack of support for their children. With the proposal, Enhedslisten instructs the government to make the necessary proposals to enable parents of children who need less than 9 hours of weekly support in the primary school to have their complaints about the allocated support dealt with by the Board of Appeal for Special Education. The government cannot support the proposal. The Enhedslisten explains the proposal by stating that it is not reasonable, in their view, for parents of a primary school pupil awarded less than 9 hours of support not to be able to obtain an appeal before the Board of Appeal for Special Education. The proposers refer, inter alia, to: that the UN Disability Committee has recommended that all children with disabilities can lodge a complaint with an independent authority. I would like to start by making it quite clear that all children with special needs and disabilities are entitled to receive an educational offer commensurate with their needs, and they are entitled to the necessary support. In this context, it is essential to distinguish between support and special education. If parents believe that their child needs special education, they can appeal to the Board of Appeal for Special Education, regardless of their child's support for less than 9 hours a week. This right to complain has been in force both before and after the inclusion legislation put forward by the Social Democratic led government in 2012 and for which S, SF, RV, V, KF and LA voted. It is so that the further away one is from the everyday life of the students, the harder it is to assess the needs of the individual students. The Government therefore considers that a state review body should not decide whether a student needs to attend a study course or for how many hours or in which subjects there should be an additional teacher in the class. It is also not up to a state review body to decide whether the educator in charge of the recess has the skills or the judgment to assess whether the pupils have a good game and whether all pupils have the opportunity to participate. It is and remains the professionals who, locally and close to the students, have to make such decisions. It should not be a Board of Appeal that is far too far from the school's everyday life and practice. The Enhedslisten's proposal to allow for the possibility of complaining about support less than 9 hours a week to pupils in the primary school will in fact involve the introduction of a general right of appeal against the school leader's educational decisions to a state review body. Today, the head of the school has the administrative and pedagogical competence to make all specific decisions about the school's pupils within the objectives, framework and principles set by the municipal council and the school board. The Enhedslisten's proposal would be a significant breach of that. Support for pupils with less support needs can be organised in many different ways depending on the specific needs of pupils at the school. It can be through teaching differentiation, team formation, two-teacher scheme, co-teaching, professional support in the class, supplementary teaching and personal assistance. As I said, the good decisions are best made close to the student and the parents at the local school. It is the head of the school who is responsible to the pupil, and it is also the head of the school who is responsible to the school board and the municipal council. The government won't change that. The government believes that it should continue to be a local decision. Support can cover many different things, and it could lead to a very unfortunate development if we open the door to complain about the school manager's daily decisions, which are in practice made in close cooperation with teachers and educators. The government recognises that pupils, parents and schools can look differently at whether pupils receive the necessary support at school and at the right time. A current example is pupils with dyslexia who are not discovered in time, and teachers who lack the necessary knowledge to support the student. However, the solution here is not to state the school's teaching and educational choices by extending the right of appeal to a state complaint body • it is really difficult to speak when some people are speaking in the Chamber; it is very difficult to concentrate. We need quite different methods to support municipalities in making good choices for pupils with less support needs. It can be through the development of tools such as the dyslexia test, the dissemination of the latest knowledge and the strengthening of pedagogical and psychological counselling. In view of this, the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102342	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102350	The minister says that the closer you are to the child, the better you are able to assess the child's needs. I do not disagree with that. It's very natural to think that way. Those who will be closest to assessing the child's needs are basically the child's parents, who are with the child every day. After all, we hear from a large number of organisations which organise parents for children and young people with disabilities that they find there are problems with schools not adequately meeting the needs of children. I assume that the Minister agrees that parents are those who are closest to the children, and now when they formulate a need for there to be an opportunity to complain if they disagree with the school's management, is it not precisely to take into account that those closest to the child are also those who have a stronger influence on how the child's needs are met?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102457	Yes, and as I said in my speech, if parents believe that their child needs special education, they can complain to the Board of Appeal for Special Education, regardless of the fact that their child is supported for less than 9 hours a week; that is how it should be. What we are rather more doubtful about is whether we should complain about ordinary educational decisions in everyday life, and that is where we simply think it is best that the mandate is local.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102529	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102530	In other words, it is true that it is only special education that a complaint can be made about, but the Minister is, as I am, fully aware that the concept of special education is redefined in the context of the inclusion reform, so that if you have a support requirement of 9 hours or more, it can be defined as special education, but if it is one hour less, then you cannot. Does the Minister not think that it is a strange distinction that for the child who needs 9 hours of support, parents can complain about the content of the support they receive, but if the child needs 1 hour less, i.e. 8 hours, then parents are prevented from complaining if they do not think that the child is receiving the right support? Isn't it a strangely rigid limit to place the parents' influence on support for their own child?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102620	There may well be examples where parents see this as unfair, but I also think it makes sense that there is a limit in a place where there is also the possibility of making decisions locally. In the free schools there is even more freer framework for how to organise it, and that is sometimes some very fine solutions come out of that, i.e. that you take responsibility locally and that it is not done, you can say, something very formalistic. So I actually think it is important to have a space for the mandate to be kept locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102657	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102658	Thank you. I just read in the comments on the proposal that the UN Disability Committee criticises Denmark in this way, that is, that when you have more than 9 hours of funding you can complain, and that is not possible if it is less than 9 hours. I would really like a professional assessment of why it is just 9 hours. What is really the reasoning in that if you have been granted more than nine hours of support, you are entitled to complain, but you cannot do so if you, for example, have been granted more than nine hours of support. has 8 hours of support? Why is the incision there? And is it not reasonable to listen to the UN Disability Committee in relation to the criticism they make to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102741	As I said in my speech, if there is a need for special education, you can complain to the Board of Appeal for Special Education, regardless of the fact that the child receives support for less than 9 hours a week. So there has to be that possibility. What is a limit here, in relation to the ordinary educational decisions that are made in everyday life, about ordinary educational balances, we think are fine located locally. This does not mean, of course, that as a parent you cannot turn to the head of the school, to the school board and also to the administration if you find that your child does not receive the appropriate education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102827	Then I just have a clear question, and that is: when you can complain if there is a need for special education, regardless of the fact that it is less than 9 hours a week, it is not because you can complain if you think that the child should have more than 9 hours of special education per week, and not about the content of those, for example. Seven hours you've had? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102848	I'm not sure I understood the question. After all, all children who have a disability or special need have the right to receive an educational offer commensurate with their needs, and they are entitled to the necessary support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102908	Then we thank the Minister and address the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206102923	Thank you. In the social democracy we see justice in a more equal treatment of children with support needs, regardless of the number of hours required. That is why we want a greater political focus to be placed on strengthening the dialogue between parents, teachers and management in primary school. Today there is a huge task in raising all our children with special needs in primary school. This applies both to those who need less than 9 hours of support and to those who need more. This task requires a holistic effort in which we find out how to improve our inclusion efforts for all schools. The proposal we are debating today concerns the right of appeal for parents of children with less than 9 hours of support. This is a major problem and we support the good intention. At the same time, we note that Danske Handicaporganisations have expressed a wish to do so. As a starting point, we do not think that there should be a great difference between the possibilities for pupils with over 9 hours of support needs. However, we do not think that complaints should be the first to resort to. There must have been prior cooperation between parents, teachers and management. If this has not solved the problem, the PPR may be involved in the case and only then shall the right of appeal be available. There must therefore have been a process before the possibility of complaints is opened. Moreover, it is essential for us in the Social Democratic Party that the economy is in line with the task of primary school. That is why the Social Democratic Party is more interested in establishing a defined dialogue plan. We would like to see action as a class conference where teachers and managers create action plans for the individual learner, because this will give less cause for complaints about the conditions of the pupils concerned. In addition, we believe that increased use of two-teacher schemes can contribute to the resolution of the problem. Social democracy therefore supports the good intention, but votes against the proposal because we believe that stronger dialogue is more crucial than an extended system of complaints, and that there is a need for a more holistic assessment of what works and does not work for the special area of primary school, in cooperation with the organisations in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103230	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103232	I simply do not understand the view that emphasising dialogue is incompatible with being able to complain. There is such a fine little parental booklet about special education for pupils in the primary school.Those are the ones who need 9 hours or more and you can go in and look at what it says. What do I do if you think my child needs special education? You contact the class teacher or the head of the school etc. Who evaluates whether a child needs special education? The headmaster does that, and you can also include PPR. Well, that's all there today. Of course, I fully agree that this should not be about promoting an American culture, starting with complaining and then discussing the matter afterwards. Of course, dialogue is the most important thing, but why is it only intention? Why is it that the Social Democrats do not actually support it if dialogue does not succeed if a common solution is not reached between parents and schools? Why, then, is it that parents should be cut off from complaining if the need is less than 9 hours? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103339	It is very important for us to say that the complaint must be the last resort. It's supposed to be the last thing you're gonna do. We would much rather have what is ahead, that is, what is the dialogue. We don't see it as each other's opposites, we don't see it as a either-or. We see it as being what goes ahead, that is to say dialogue, which is the most important thing. That is where we have to put the effort, and that is where it has to work better. And it's not just the parents it's about. It is also about the Trinity that I was talking about, i.e. that it is the parents, it is the teachers, and it is the management of the primary school that together in everyday life has to find solutions. We mention PPR as one of the options where a reader counselor e.g. can get in. There are so many other local solutions that can be done. It is just important for us that it starts with the dialogue and that it starts at primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103444	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103445	I fully agree that this starts in the dialogue. Everything else would be very strange, that is, if you thought that your child did not get the support it should have when it came to school and you discovered that there was a need for something here, and the first thing you did was to send a letter to the appeal body. So of course it starts with the dialogue. But how can it be that, if the dialogue fails, you have the right to complain if the child needs 9 hours of support or more, and if the child needs 8 hours or less, you have no right to complain? What is the logic of that? In other words, why should parents be allowed to complain with the rapporteur's presentation of it to the child who needs 9 hours of support? I simply do not see the logic, and I would really like to hear the explanation why 9 hours trigger the right of appeal, while 8 hours do not trigger it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103535	The rapporteur himself mentioned the American system. I am worried that we will end up in the situation where complaining about a legal assessment where parents face the school will fill more in our society. As I said in the rapporteur's speech, it is important for us that there has been a process before the possibility of complaints is opened. Then it is also important to reiterate that the economy and the tasks of the primary school must be consistent, and I think that this is where we will find one of the solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103621	Thank you to Mrs. Julie Skovsby. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103629	Thank you, President. The Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution is about giving parents the right to complain about the special education support given to children in primary school with less than 9 hours of support per week, and only parents of children have 9 hours of support needs who have the right to appeal to the Board of Appeal for Special Education. And it is quite important to stress this point. All children are supported in primary school. Everyone also has the right to complain, but only those with 9 hours of support per week or more have the right to complain to the Board of Appeal. It's important to keep that in mind. The others need to talk to the head of the school or, ultimately, the municipal council, which is responsible for the primary school. It is also important to emphasise that no change was made to the law in 2012, but the practice of the Board of Appeal was clarified in the observations. The Unity List refers in the proposal to the UN Disability Committee, which is very critical. The unitary list also refers to the fact that the Board of Appeal changes the municipality's decisions in one third of the cases. So there have been 165 complaints. This means that one third of them have brought about changes. The proposal concerns the primary school, which is subject to conciliation, and that is Article 51 of the primary school law. In the Danish People's Party we acknowledge that there may be a problem, which is why we would also like to say to the Enhedslisten that we will take it into the public school conciliation circle when we hold our regular meetings so that we can discuss it with the other parties in the conciliation circle, and I hope, of course, that Enhedslisten will recognise it and that you are satisfied with it. If you do not want it, of course we will not. We would also like to point out that the government has started to look at part of the area as a result of the disability issue that the Danish People's Party had earlier this year, and there it would also be obvious to look at this as part of the analysis as it is called. So that should be our concluding remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103855	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103858	I fully agree with the rapporteur that parents can complain. In other words, dialogue at first sounds better, but it is true, and I suppose it is also the right way of complaining, that of course you go to school. What is the problem, after all, is when it becomes a complaint, and if you have a need that is deemed to be less than 9 hours, then you have to complain to the body that has taken the decision. It weakens a principle. In other words, our principle of complaint is often built up in such a way that it is precisely independent bodies that take a position, so that if a citizen has something to complain about, you do not complain to those who have taken the decision. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is a sound principle that if there is a citizen who really needs to complain about the handling of his case, then there is an opportunity to complain to an independent body and that one should not just complain to the authority that made the decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206103956	As I said in my speech, we would very much like to discuss it in the conciliation circle. It could be that there were some things we had to dive into, so why it's just 9 hours. If we change that, are we undermining the headmaster's responsibility, as the minister points out? Are we opening up an Americanization, as Social Democracy points out? There are a lot of things we need to look at before we begin to change it at all, and that is why we cannot just say yes to a resolution. Because we have to do the work properly, and I think we should do that in the conciliation circle. After all, the Ministry has good people working on this every day, and I'd like to hear it before. There were good reasons why we agreed to this clarification of the Board of Appeal's practice at the time. After all, the Board of Appeal itself had introduced the ceiling of 9 hours, and there was a good reason for this, and I would like to have a discussion with the Ministry on this and the Minister nods that too. So I hope that Enhedslisten will agree that this is the approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104059	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104100	After all, it was the definition of special education that changed with the inclusion reform. Thank you, by the way, for your kindness, it is always nice that there is a dialogue, and I see that the proposal we have put forward is reflected on it. I am so little curious about the formal when the rapporteur refers it to the public school circle. Does the rapporteur think that voting in favour of this proposal would be contrary to the practice of the public school circle? Because if it isn't, I guess it's best for us to have an open discussion among all the parties of the Folketing. Or does the rapporteur think that agreement can only be reached on this matter in the public school circle, and otherwise we cannot deal with it in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104151	Yeah, that's my best estimate. In other words, it will require an amendment to section 51 and an amendment to an existing paragraph, and the entire conciliation circle will have to be consulted. So it actually requires agreement among all seven parties if it is that we have to change it. That's my assessment. But we also need to talk about this kind of thing with the minister and the ministry, who know about this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104214	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104224	Thank you for the floor. With regard to the motion for a resolution that we are now debating and that has been tabled by Enhedslisten, I would like to begin by thanking Enhedslisten for raising the debate in the Chamber today in an important debate. But I must also start by disappointing the Enhedslisten's rapporteur by saying that unfortunately we on the Left cannot support the resolution. It is the case that with the resolution here, the Enhedslisten will require the government to put forward the necessary legislative proposals in this Assembly which will allow parents of children who need less than 9 hours of weekly support at school to have their complaints dealt with in the Complaints Board for Special Education. We think it is really important that these things take place really close to the local area, which means that, as it is today, it is the head of the school who is also responsible for what is going on around children with special needs. And it is also the case that today you have an opportunity to complain as parents, even if your child has fewer hours of support than the 9 hours, and that is why we really think it is best that you make these decisions as close to the student as possible. It is in everyday life that both pupils, educators, teachers and school leaders are close to each other, and the path of dialogue, which I am sure the rapporteur also recognises, is also the best way to resolve some issues. And I do not always believe that the path of complaint is the best way to go. Often, when things end up in complaint systems, the student also suffers. Cases may even drag on, and often you just don't know how to handle this everyday life as soon as possible or for that matter as best you can. With those words, I can say that I am fully aware that there are still places, including in the whole area of inclusion, where things can be done even better, and I am also sure that this is something that we will continue to discuss, including in the public school conciliation circle. There are places where I think things don't always work very well. But this motion for a resolution will vote against. And I have also promised to send a message from the Conservatives saying that they cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104520	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104523	As I have also mentioned in the dialogue with the previous rapporteurs, I agree that the dialogue path is the best one. In other words, anyone who resorts to the complaint as the first weapon, I think, can help to block the search for sensible solutions. I fully agree with that. The point here is that there must actually be an appeal. The chairman of Danish Handicap organisations said in the debate on this matter this summer: the problem is if the support is less than 9 hours but is not the right support. The risk then is that the child with disabilities will not be able to complete school at all. I'm impressed by that. Other statements will be found from the National Association of Autism, which has documented incredibly many problems with school migration. Is it not such a serious matter that this can force parents to keep their children at home that one should say that if the dialogue path is not successful and if parents think that the head of the school has made a wrong decision, it should be the case that one has an opportunity to appeal to the Board of Appeal for Special Education?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104644	Well, I really do think I would like to address some of what Danske Handicap organisations have just said, i.e. the work to get the right support. I clearly recognise that, unfortunately, there are places, perhaps even a number of places where this does not work optimally for those pupils with special needs. Among other things, it can be done. be students with autism where you don't get a good enough offer in different places. I just feel that I would rather work to ensure that we then have even more assurance that the right support is actually given. I can say that I am holding a series of meetings with both the National Association of Autism, but for that matter also with other disability associations, also to get input on how this can be done better. But I do not agree that simply giving the opportunity to complain to the Board of Appeal for Special Education has solved this problem. I simply think that we should go somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104753	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104754	What is at the heart of this proposal is not whether we should have dialogue or whether we should just complain. The essence of that is, of course, that there is discrimination against children and parents, as the legislation has been tightened up today. Can the rapporteur not see that something is quite wrong if, as parents, you think that it is simply not going well at school and that their child does not get the support it needs, that if it does not succeed in getting the need up, so to speak, in 9 hours, then you cannot complain? This can create a huge focus on the level of aid rather than the content of the aid, because if you do not define the need as at least 9 hours, then you are prevented from complaining about it. Does the current legislation not shift the focus from the quality of the aid given to the quantity of aid, and is it not problematic?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104853	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104853-2	For me, it is very important to say from the platform that you can complain. You just can't complain to the Board of Appeal for Special Education. I mean, you still have the opportunity to complain. I think it would be quite obvious that as parents you start at the head of the school, and if you cannot get through with the head of the school, you also have the opportunity to go to the school board or, for that matter, to the municipal council, to the city council. So I actually think there are also opportunities for those who have less than 9 hours to complain. Then I know that there may be disagreements as to whether this group should also have the rights to go to the Board of Appeal for Special Education. But I still have to say that it is important to stick to the fact that you can complain if you are unhappy. And I actually think that's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104948	Then we thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206104957	Thank you for that, President. As has already been mentioned, motion for a resolution B 21 deals with the possibility of providing parents with a right to complain about insufficient support for children who have less than 10 hours of support needs. After all, responsibility for the proper support of a child lies primarily with the school management in cooperation with teachers and parents. However, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is in fact a very interesting resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten because it raises a more fundamental debate, which I really think is good, on how to deal with conflicts in the welfare state and how to tackle this type of conflict at all. That is why I think it is good that we have this debate. For as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen explained in her speech to the rapporteur and, as Mrs Anni Matthiesen has also repeated, one can actually complain today. There is an initial body which is the school; there is another body which is the board; there is a kind of third body which is the municipality. And then there is the discussion whether to grant access to something we can metaphorically call the Supreme Court and I stress that it is a metaphor. Should you always be able to complain directly to the Supreme Court of Appeal? This is not something else that can be done in the decision-making systems we have established elsewhere. But it is good that we have the debate. I think it is important to rely on the teaching skills of the individual school. I'd like to see a decentralized school system. I would like to see a school system that is characterised by trust in the heads of schools and where you listen to the parents in this type of case. That is why I also think that the system we have is a good system. I believe that if we are to be able to complain directly to what I called the Supreme Court with a metaphor, then we are implicitly going to have more conflict in this area, because formal complaints are more conflicting than more informal types of inquiries. So in view of that, and given how detailed it is a good idea to regulate, for example. schools, then we cannot support the proposal here. This is an exciting debate, but we must not micro-manage the way schools run, and we must also be careful not to build up too many conflicts. The highest review body is of the opinion that it should not be immediately open to all types of cases in other contexts. That is a good principle, and I think we should stick to it here too. So we cannot therefore support motion for a resolution B 21. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105317	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105321	In my view, we should not have a society in which the relationship between parents and school is characterised by a culture of complaint. I fully agree with that. For me, it is a matter of legal certainty. And if I may quote the rapporteur's party colleague Mrs Laura Lindahl, she said to the DR in July of this year that she would like to see better redress for parents of children with special needs. It is important to ensure the legal certainty of parents, she said and announced that she herself would make a proposal after the summer recess. Now the Enhedslisten got to her first. In other words, I think Mrs Laura Lindahl has a very good point in using the word legal certainty, because the problem we raise is: if parents do not think that the offer made to their child is good enough, is it good enough for them to be able to complain to the authority that made the decision or should there be an opportunity to complain to an independent body if you think that the matter is such that it is important enough for parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105437	I do not think that it weakens Denmark as a community of law, that not all legal proceedings can be conducted automatically at the Supreme Court ^ that it is only in some cases and upon special application that you can come to all three courts. In the system we have, you can also complain to bodies that have not taken the decision. So all in all, I think that we also have quite good legal certainty in relation to this type of complaint.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105513	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105514	But does the rapporteur also think that it is superfluous to have the right of appeal if the child needs 9 hours? Because that's what's at the heart of the matter here. It is not, of course, a proposal to set up a new appeal body; that is not the point at all. We have a complaint body, and hopefully it will work well. What is the question here is: should we have a rigid limit so that one can complain if the need is estimated to be 9 hours, and if it is less than 9 hours, one cannot complain? That's what kind of thing is at the heart of this case. Isn't that a strangely rigid line you've drawn here?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105551-2	Well, I think that the analogy with our judicial system is very good in relation to the question that is now being asked. Because you cannot automatically have all types of cases brought before three courts. It is only a few, and here it is also the case that we cannot in any case get every type of case in the hands of all the bodies that exist. I think that is a very sensible parallelism.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105623	With that, we thank Mr. Henrik Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105632	Thank you so much. I shall start by saying that the alternative supports the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution. Thank you for putting it forward. I was not really aware that this problem existed until I read the resolution. So it is very good that there are awake politicians and parties reacting to some of the criticisms that come from among others. Danish Disability Organizations and also the UN in this case. When I sit and listen to the debate, I do not really understand the objections to the resolution, if I am to be quite honest. In other words, given that this is a local decision and that, of course, parents, school leaders and teachers must be involved first and foremost, it is not contrary to the fact that we are creating an opportunity for us to have our complaint tested by the name. It may be necessary to go further if it turns out that it, you might say, local discussion or discussion that lies there, has proved not to be fruitful. So somewhere, this is a matter of legal certainty. That's what it is. In other words, it is a question of the pupil or parents of the student receiving 8 hours of support per week being given the same opportunity to test his complaint with the name as the student receiving 12 hours of support per week. I mean, I just don't understand why that's exactly where the border is. This means that those who receive less than 9 hours of support do not have the same right as those who get over. After all, you do not necessarily need support less simply because you get 8 hours than if you get 10 hours. So I have to be honest and say that I really do not think there are any good arguments against this proposal. But then maybe that's what you have to be honest and say. I'll give Mr. Jakob Silverhøj is right about the competence of the school leaders. We all know it. When you sit as head of school and have to manage a need for support for a student at the request of some parents and at the same time manage an economy, you have a double role, and then you have two hats on. And by far the majority of school leaders I am absolutely sure of lifting that task very well. However, it cannot be ruled out that there will be heads of schools who may have so pressured an economy that they make a decision that is not for the best of the child. And we must all agree that the decision to be taken must be for the good of the child, even if it means cutting somewhere else in the school budget. So the opportunity to test your complaint with the name is entirely legitimate and in line with the legal certainty that I think we are so proud of in Denmark. So we support the resolution. And in fact, I should also like to thank the Danish People's Party for wanting to take this into the conciliation circle, because I fully agree that we cannot do as much about it as we do about a majority in the House. However, I hope that it will be taken forward and discussed in the conciliation circle. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105909	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105911	Thank you for supporting this proposal. I agree with the rapporteur that it is difficult to find explanations other than financial. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that today there is an expenditure of 4.5 million. kr. to the Complaints Board for Special Education and when we have here estimated that it will cost 3-4 million. kr. To remove the great insecurity of many parents in relation to being able to complain to an independent body, it seems strange if the 3-4 million. kr. should prevent a greater security from being created in the parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206105955	Yes, I fully agree with that. After all, it is enormously small money in the big picture and in relation to our entire school system as a whole, so I fully agree that you can of course find that money if you want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206110006	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206110014	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for putting forward the proposal, which is about strengthening children's rights. I think it really does. When our goal is that all children should be well in this country, and when our goal is that the children we send to primary school should want to get out of primary school and have had a good time and got something out of it, we must also make sure that they get the help they need. I see this proposal to strengthen the right of appeal as a strengthening of rights. I would like to tease Enhedslisten a little, because we were parties who thought it was a very good idea to make a complaint if children were bullied, and Enhedslisten argued against that, but I think it is very good that in this area it might be a good idea to strengthen the rights of children. I actually share Enhedslisten's view that after 2012 there has been a shift. It is the case that we have one in SF's parliamentary group who worked in the PPR at the time when the legislation was made. She said that what was experienced in her PPR was that from one day to the next the kind of help children could get if they needed less than 9 hours was quite different and that it was very difficult to check whether the children actually received the help they needed. What we hear from the schools is that because the schools have financial difficulties, some schools are reasonably financially starved; they already find it difficult to get the school day to hang together without having to raise the teachers' average teaching hours and tighten up their preparation; then one of the places where you can take some money, even if you shouldn't do so, from support to children with special needs. I mean, do they have to have two hours a week, or do they have to have three hours a week? Unfortunately, these are the priorities that are being set out there. The stories we hear, for example, are: that children with type 1 diabetes, who need daily help, daily support to get the syringe they need, do not get it, and teachers face the challenge that they cannot do it either, and perhaps should not really do it either. Children with disabilities who are less than 9 hours a week do not necessarily receive the help they need. These are stories about children with special needs, where some parents experience that they have had to struggle to get the help they need because it is part of an economic game out in the municipalities. That is why I think it is an exciting proposal and we are positive about it. However, I have some things to say in relation to the process of the proposal. As has also been said, there is a community of public schools. We will also carry it in there and try to change it there, but I would say that I think this is so important that we should do some committee work on it in the parliamentary committee. The first thing I thought when I saw the proposal was that when I was the integration rapporteur and we over there amended a law that was important to many, we actually chose to send the proposal to consultation. Just as a minister normally sends a proposal in consultation, a committee can also send a proposal in consultation. When I read this, I actually wanted to know what the teachers think about it, what the leaders think about it, what the parents think about it. I think that would be interesting to know in committee in relation to the debate that could then be held later in the conciliation circle. I think that the discussion we should have is also about this right of appeal. In other words, must there be some need for dialogue before you complain? It was, in fact, also a discussion we had in relation to the anti-bullying body. I think that is an exciting discussion that I think we should take. The argument of one of the SF's groups, which I actually share myself, was that we do not believe that there are insanely many complaints, because as a parent you can only take that path of redress if you really think you have a case. So we're not so nervous about it, but we think it's something we should investigate and talk about with the people who are out there. So overall: I think that is a good proposal. I think we should continue to work on this in committee and talk to the school world about it, and then I hope that we can have qualified it or a debate that will lead to some changes being made in the conciliation circle. We will certainly be prepared to do so in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206110441	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206110504	Thank you for your kindness, and thank you for the teasing. As long as they're friendly, they're always welcome. Now it is the case that Enhedslisten actually supported the motion for a resolution. I had a few comments in my rapporteur's speech, which I noted was worth noting that there was a concern on the part of teachers and heads of schools that we were really bureaucraticising this, as I am now hearing from a number of rapporteurs. However, we actually voted in favour of the proposal. We are currently having some interesting discussions on how to define a settlement here in the Folketing. And now that the rapporteur himself talks about this, I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with Mr McMahon. Alex Ahrendtsen says that changes to the rules on special education can only be made if there is agreement within the primary school circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206110539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206110547	First of all, I am glad that the Enhedslisten voted in favour and I regret that my memory failed me. But I do remember Enhedslisten's arguments correctly. But yes, it shows that it is also part of the debate here. Will it lead to bureaucracy? I did not think so at the time, and it has not done so, as far as I know, on the appeal body. And I don't think it's gonna do this either, but that's one of the things we can investigate. In terms of conciliation and being bound by conciliation, it is usually the case in the field of primary school that everything that, like changes to primary school legislation, is bound by the primary school settlement, and then everyone has to agree. And it can be a disadvantage for a SF like me, who thinks there is a need for some changes, because then you have to bring everyone with you. But it can also be an advantage for the primary school, because it means that there may not be these big fluctuations all the time, and that people with whom I do not always agree are not allowed to sit and dictate what is going to happen to the school. However, I will of course examine how the Minister sees this proposal in relation to the conciliation rules, i.e. whether it is bound by conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206110642	In doing so, we would like to thank the SF rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Jakob Silverhøj, who with good feet is on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206110659	Thank you. If we are to ensure that all children receive the best possible education, we should not treat all children equally. Children have different conditions for participating in school education, and for quite a large number of children, they have a special need for one form or another of support if it is to be ensured that they both thrive and get the best possible benefit from schooling. Of course, the need for support and assistance will be very different depending on the individual child's challenges and possible need to be compensated for disability. Therefore, it is important that there is a very thorough assessment when it is necessary to clarify whether and what support the individual child needs to meet the needs of the individual child. At the same time, it is important for schools to be open to conduct a very thorough dialogue that parents of children with special needs will very often have, because they can of course be concerned about whether their children are now receiving the right and adequate support. And, of course, as has emerged from the debate so far, I agree that there is also a need for parents to prefer the way of dialogue, because this is the best way to solve the problems. I do not think there is any reason to doubt that most schools work professionally with the organisation of teaching and the allocation of support for children with special needs. I have no doubt that it is extremely important for both teachers and school leaders that we have a primary school where children receive the support they need, but unfortunately I also think it is quite obvious that many schools are under pressure on resources, and not least because of the inclusion reform we received in 2012, there have been great difficulties in securing the necessary support for all children. All too often we hear from children with adhd, parents whose children have autism spectrum disorders or other forms of disability, that their children are miserable at school, and that they do not get the help they think they are entitled to. Similarly, we also hear assessments from the other side, so to speak, from the teachers and from the teaching staff and from the school managers, that they do not believe that they are being provided with the necessary frameworks and resources to actually solve the inclusion task properly. At the same time, we can see from the statistics that there are, in fact, many parents who are successful in their complaints about lack of support. If you look at the most recent annual report from the Board of Appeal for Special Education, it showed that there were errors in every other complaint case there were errors in every other case dealt with by the Board of Appeal. Some of the cases, as we know from the disability area, were sent back to the municipalities because formal errors had been made in the procedure. Of course not, but it is of a less serious nature, but in fact it was also the case that the municipality's decision was amended in every third case by the Board of Appeal. I think that is simply not good enough. This suggests that the professional assessments made by the heads of schools are apparently too often ignored for financial interests because the heads of schools have budgets which they cannot get to hang together. It is not an accusation against the heads of schools, but merely a statement that when you have a budget that is not linked, there can be a very strong pressure on what actions you take, because special education can undoubtedly be expensive. I think that the large proportion of cases in which parents are successful in their complaints, i.e. one in three, illustrates how problematic it is that there are parents who simply cannot complain to an independent body. I fully agree that it would be strange to dispute that parents can complain. This applies to all of us, of course we can complain about anything, but the interesting thing is whether you can complain to someone who can make a decision different from that taken by a given public body. So I think it is extremely problematic that when every other case is mistreated, when every third case is sent back or changed, we say that if you have a need that is less than 9 hours, then you have to live with the arbitrariness that may lie in the fact that you can only complain to the same body that has taken the original decision. I would like to emphasise once more, because it has emerged from the debate that it should of course be the case that what can be done should be done to find the right support and help in a dialogue between parents and schools. But it must also be the case, in the view of Enhedslisten, that in the end there must be an opportunity to complain about the school's decision if they believe that the head of the school has misjudged and made a wrong decision so that the child's needs are not met. Otherwise, there is a risk that too many children will be miserable and will not receive sufficient help. I am pleased that we have had one, I think, in many ways nuanced debate on it. I have heard no one say that this is a problem which is not a reason for further discussion, either by the rapporteurs or by the Minister. It's always good, of course. I am pleased that there are parties that have supported the proposal, one that has done so in concrete terms here from the platform, another: the Radical Left, from whom Marianne Jelved has asked me to salute and say that the Radical Left supports the proposal. I also welcome the comments on whether we cannot withdraw the proposal and look at it in committee. I think that's a good idea. I think it would be good if we sent it out for consultation so that we get an assessment from school leaders, from teachers, from educators' organisations, from disability organisations on how they assess this proposal. Then we could write it in a report or find another form of moving forward with the proposal, we will certainly support it. But thank you for the debate. I hope that the discussion will continue. I think there are a great many parents who see their children in need of support that is not being met and who will be glad that we continue the debate and hopefully end up where all parents will be able to complain to an independent body if they find that their child does not receive the support they think the child needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206111436	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206111500	The debate is open. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206111513	The Danish People's Party has tabled motion for a resolution B 22 requiring the government to propose that free primary schools may not receive financial support from, be owned by, or rent buildings of legal or natural persons located or residing outside the EU/EEA. I would like to start by saying that the government supports the intention behind the proposal. Nor do we want free primary schools to be subjected to external pressure which counteracts the school's compliance with the freedom of the free school law and the demands of the people's government and the requirement of independence. That is why we have among other things. together with the Danish People's Party in recent years adopted a series of tightenings against free schools. When it comes to the schools' buildings, the agreement on enhanced supervision of the free primary schools of November 2017 agreed to strengthen supervision of the school's rental of buildings. We agreed at the time that if a free primary school wants to move most of its education from buildings owned by the school to rented buildings, the school must inform the Ministry of Education about it at least 4 weeks before the final agreement is concluded. Where the supervision in this respect considers that the transfer may call into question the independence of the school, an order may be issued to modify the terms of the contract or to terminate the contract. In the same agreement of November 2017, we also agreed on a number of measures that create greater transparency with donations and strengthen the supervision of the independence of schools and respect for freedom and the requirement of popular rule. We introduced a ban on anonymous donations over $20,000. to free primary schools. We agreed on a general strengthening of the supervision of the independence of the free primary schools, so that supervision can take part as an observer at school meetings in matters of independence, although there has been no enhanced supervision. And we added more resources to the supervision of the free primary schools. When it comes to the ownership of the free primary schools, the law states that schools must be independent self-serving institutions. So they must not be owned by others according to the rules in force. However, the government cannot support the proposal. As I have said, we in the government are not interested in foreign donations affecting the independence and compliance of free primary schools with freedom and the requirement of popular government, but it is a question of striking a balance which, on the one hand, prevents unwanted influence, while, on the other hand, it is still possible for democratically minded organisations and countries with special ties to free schools in Denmark to make financial contributions to these schools. The Danish People's Party's proposal would exclude a large number of countries, including the United States, from providing financial support for free primary schools in Denmark. The Danish Government shares the Danish People's Party's ambition that the Danish free primary schools should not be exposed to outside influences that compromise their independence or respect for freedom and the popular rule requirement, and we have also taken concrete steps to prevent this. Most recently, with the 2019 Finance Act, we have agreed with the Danish People's Party that a model should be introduced which, within the framework of the Constitution and Denmark's international obligations, can prevent donations to religious communities, etc., if the purpose of the donation is to undermine democracy and freedom values. I'm talking to mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party on how we can ensure that some of the free schools do not work against democratic values. In this respect, the Government is in favour of exploring the possibilities of a solution that prevents inappropriate foreign donations if we can avoid the disadvantages associated with the current proposal in B 22. The government is happy to continue the dialogue with Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen on alternative proposals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206111859	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206111905	Yes, it is not enough to support the intention if we do not support a motion for a resolution, and I am actually wondering, because the financial law agreement is actually very clear: we want to prevent foreign subsidies, for example. mosques and associations. That is not what you want when it becomes quite concrete. Why on earth not? This is just part of the financial law agreement, and I assume that the government will live up to the agreement we have made with each other on the Finance Act. So why on earth not do as the Finance Act says? Is it because it's as concrete as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206111942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206111946	Of course, we want to live up to the agreement we have made in the Finance Act with the Danish People's Party, and we are equally interested in cutting off undemocratic individuals or organisations from donating money to Danish free schools. What we are discussing with DF at the moment is, of course, how to make such a model that cuts off precisely those, what to say, forces that have this undemocratic and negative influence on Danish society, but at the same time allow democratic organisations to support Danish civil society if they so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112027	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112033	Democratic people can also be extreme. The Minister referred in his speech to the United States. In the United States, the Church of Scientology. There are free schools in Denmark that profess Scientology. They will then be able to receive support and their schools will be able to be owned by Scientology because there is no legislation against it. So it's a bad example to use the United States. In addition, an extreme Muslim organisation can also settle in the United States and from there support a free school in Denmark. However, will the Minister not support this proposal instead of just supporting the intention?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112115	Thank you. Of course, the United States is just an example. Now I myself was in the United States this summer, and there are Danish-minded minorities in the United States who are still very concerned about the Danish cultural heritage. There are also Jewish minorities in the United States who, if they so wish, must be given the opportunity to support, for example, the Jewish school, which by God is pressured enough. So this is all about, you might say, putting in where the problems are and finding the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112147	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112153	Thank you. I would really like to know a little more about why the Minister thinks this is a bad idea. The minister says that the minister would like to discuss further with the Danish People's Party, and I also understand that the government and the Danish People's Party have actually made an agreement in connection with the Finance Act to look at this. But the Minister then says that the proposal here has some shortcomings. And what I can understand from the inappropriateness is that you cannot get subsidies from certain countries, for example. U.S.A. But in itself I do not think that is an inappropriate thing. I mean, I think that the school system should be funded in Denmark. So why is that inappropriate? What is it that is working well today, for example, that will not work in the future? I do not know if the Minister can be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112241	I guess it's about politically not, that is, the state should not put obstacles in the way of civil society unless it is absolutely necessary. That's exactly what this is about. And where it becomes absolutely necessary, which I fully agree with the Danish People's Party, is, of course, if there are undemocratic forces interfering with civil society. What we are talking about here today is free schools. We do not want that. But it is clear that a small country like Denmark should not prevent completely ordinary free organisations, democratic organisations, from participating in civil society in Denmark. It would be very strange if we did.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112323	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112326	That's probably where we disagree a little bit. So, of course, I believe that civil society in Denmark should be able to cooperate with our schools, but I do not see why it should be the case that you should be able to get better economic conditions because you get support from countries such as the United States. is outside Europe. I just have to say that I have still not heard any such concrete example of a very good cooperation that is today that will disappear with this proposal. I understand that there are some countries that can no longer receive subsidies, but can the Minister say something concrete about where this proposal will be really bad? I do not think it is so bad that Scientology cannot support any longer from the United States, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112404	Well, of course, these will be examples. It will be with everything. But we must not restrict freedom. I gave two examples, which are hypothetical examples, I would say, and not examples from the real world: let us say that a rich Danish descendant in the United States would like to support a small free school in the countryside that struggles to get things together, then I really do not see why we should prevent it or why we should prevent it if a Jewish diaspora in the United States would want to support the Jewish school, which is living with fences at a height of three metres and armed guards. So the point is that we must strike where the problems are, but we must not strangle our civil societies or their general democratic, proper interaction with the outside world.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112454	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112458	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I'd like to follow up on some of that, as sir. Alex Ahrendtsen and Mr. Jacob Mark's on the phone. Because I am also wondering what is the problem with this proposal. In fact, I've been trying to investigate this, and the free schools I know are funded by the state subsidy and then the parents' own money. I do not know of anyone financed by the United States or Australia or Japan, but I know only a small part of the free schools, and the Ministry knows all of them, so can the Minister give some examples of some schools which today would be strangled, as the Minister says?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112540	Now it is a well-known fact that social democracy does not have a warmly beating heart for free schools, so I would be surprised if the free schools were to be tightened up, as the Social Democrat did not say in the past, the Social Democrat rapporteur has said in the past, that the current number of pupils is to be reduced to half as many as there are. So it is clear that this is such a more general strategy and intention. But that is my job, it can be said, to combat the problems that exist and to ensure that free schools can do whatever they want. And as long as this is done on a proper and democratic basis, there can be no one interested in preventing them from doing so. So we have to strike where the problems are, and I would very much like to enter into a dialogue with DF around, because I am very concerned about that. But this approach that it doesn't matter who it hits, I can't buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112634	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112637	I have a warmly beating heart for free schools, and the Social Democrats have a warmly beating heart for free school legislation, and we are not in favour of halving the number of pupils in free schools. And it will no longer be right for the Minister to say so from the speaking chair of the Folketing. But now I am asking the same question that is now being asked for the sixth time: what are the specific problems that would arise if this resolution were adopted? I am asking quite frankly, because if there are now some free schools that form part of good cooperation with Russia or Egypt or the United States and that we could go and visit and ask about the value of it, then I think that is a relevant objection. I just haven't been able to find them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112716	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112719	But I haven't been around talking to all the free schools in the country. It's clear that I don't have the opportunity. But what we are talking about here is to crack down on donations which are inappropriate and which we simply do not want and then just crack down on activities per se. And there it has always been my duty as Minister to make sure that efforts are targeted in a way that makes the free schools less trouble, but at the same time make sure that they hit hard where we can see that there are problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112759	With this, we thank the Minister for Education and we address the rapporteur's line. The first in line is sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206112822	Thank you. Today we are discussing a proposal that will strengthen the requirements for the independence of the free schools. The Danish People's Party proposes to amend the Free School Act so that free schools may not receive financial support from, be owned by, or rent buildings of legal or natural persons located or residing outside the EU or the EEA. Social democracy rarely supports motions for resolutions, but in this case we actually believe that the proposal is well thought out and common sense. Free schools are parents' schools. These are not state schools, they are not church schools, and they are not schools of foreign powers at all. It is a self-serving institution, and we must safeguard it. I know that there is political disagreement between the social democracy and the bourgeois, and it was also expressed just now about the degree of state aid to the free schools, but behind this disagreement hides a broad and historical consensus on the value of free schools in Denmark, and it is worth protecting. We therefore find it very difficult to understand how to argue against this proposal. I have seen that some people regard the proposal as a criticism or a distrust of the free schools, but at least that is not how it should be viewed by the Social Democrats. It is more of a recognition that countries such as Iran, Saudi Arabia and Qatar are known to spend billions of dollars of oil on influencing Muslim minorities in Western Europe, both by financing mosques and teaching. I think we should be careful not to be too naive these years. Among other things, there are: in the Arab oil states a desire to work politically and religiously among a part of the population here in Denmark. There are several examples from other European countries, and several examples of interference in Danish school relations have also been mentioned in the media. Parliament has a responsibility to ensure that free school legislation cannot be abused by foreign states and organisations to spread or to promote radicalised political ideologies. In a broad circle of parties, we have helped to strengthen control over the compliance of free schools with the provisions of the legislation, and this has helped to close several schools and it is only good that it has not exactly been the most modern teaching and democratic educational tradition that characterized everyday life. In Denmark we are going to school together. We should not be brought up to the Middle Ages with a warped view of people with other religious backgrounds or a derogatory view of homosexuals or discrimination against women and girls, let alone a distance from the other general democratic principles that we love in this country. It is no secret that the Social Democrats want to go further in this area, and this resolution is therefore seen by us as a step in the right direction. We look forward to the debate and hope that a broad majority will be able to gather around the proposal to amend the free school law in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113104	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113109	Thank you for an absolutely excellent speech, precise and head of the nail, and also thank you for the support both in the media and in this Chamber. What I would like to ask is whether the Social Democrats will vote in favour at a second reading or how they imagine this motion for a resolution to be implemented. I would like to know more about that. There are many ways to support it. One can talk nicely about it at first reading, and then in committee we do not agree. The text of the report cannot be found. We will not vote in favour for the second reading after all. Or is the rapporteur suggesting that we should go to the Minister and we sit together and agree with the government? Well, there's a lot of options. I do not know whether the rapporteur could elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113159	We very much hope that the proposers will put this to the vote so that we can vote in favour. This will not change the legislation, but it will mean that we will have to put forward a legislative proposal in this context, and we will support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113214	It's an exemplary clear speech that's from sir. Mattias Tesfaye and the Social Democratic Party. I would like to thank you for that. We will, of course, put it in the Chamber if there is a majority in favour of a vote at second reading. However, we are hoping that we can convince the government that it is as sensible and clear-sighted as the Social Democracy. So thank you again for your speech and your efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113242	I have no comment to make on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113252	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113258	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution we are debating here, tabled by the Danish People's Party, requires the government to submit a draft law amending the Free School Act, which means that Danish free schools may not receive financial support or be owned by or rent buildings by persons located or residing outside the EU. It is in this way that we recently concluded a joint financial agreement with the Danish People's Party on Friday, and among other things. this part is actually mentioned in the text of the Finance Act itself. I would like to start by saying that the Left supports the intentions of the resolution. In fact, we think it is very important that we do everything we can to avoid external pressure, especially perhaps from countries where there are bad intentions. We simply believe that Danish free schools should not be subject to this pressure. It is important for me to emphasise that we support it in the Left that we fight in all possible ways. That's one of them. in this context, where we have tightened up in relation to the supervision of the free schools themselves, that is to say agreements that we have concluded with the Danish People's Party in recent years in order to limit all these opportunities, and in connection with the start of new schools, there is now also tightened up on those associations, etc., which may also help to influence in a bad direction. And yes, as the Minister said in his speech, we need to find a balance so that we do not prevent fruitful cooperation from continuing. But there should be no doubt that we do not want there to be any possibility that various extreme organisations will be involved in influencing the free schools in Denmark. That's also why I know that the Ministry of Education and the Minister are working these days to try to find some kind of model where we can solve this. I also hope that we can make that cooperation with the Danish People's Party and hopefully ultimately reach the goal of a joint decision on it. All in all, we will not be voting in favour of the resolution. In this case too, I have promised to welcome the Conservatives and to say that they will not vote in favour of the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113553	Thank you. There are brief comments. First question, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113557	It's when politics is the worst. The Left agrees with the motion for a resolution. You support it, you don't want foreign powers to influence free schools, but you don't want to vote in favour. The Left, together with the government and the Danish People's Party, has even concluded a financial agreement that says that they will fight donations to, among others, the United States. mosques and associations. But when it becomes concrete, we will not vote in favour. It is, of course, to fool both the conciliation parties and the public. Why on earth will this proposal, which is as simple as the rules on absenteeism, not be supported? Everyone outside the EU and the EEA should not be able to influence. Regardless of whether it is Scientology in the United States or whether it is an extreme organisation in Israel or an extreme organisation in Iran, they cannot be allowed to support, own or rent buildings. Why on earth would you not support it when you agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113712	Because we in the Left feel that there is still a good chance of being gone, for example. Danish-minded companies or people in other countries who actually have a desire to support perhaps, let us give an example: the Jewish school here in Copenhagen. That is the balance we must try to find. I am happy to help ensure that the rotten apples in the box are removed. However, I would also like to help ensure that the good, fruitful cooperation, also across national borders, can continue to exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113750	Well, you can't make that balance. The Left and the Government will abide by all the conventions, and the conventions will then go and point out that there must be the principle of equal treatment for all. And you can't say there's a nice, Danish-minded guy in the United States who can be allowed to support while a cute, Arabic-minded guy can't. This is not the way to make legislation if it is that the Left will live up to the conventions. Then you have to go in and distinguish, but you don't want to. Well, this doesn't make any sense. It really screams to heaven, Mrs Anni Matthiesen. The Socialists have been very clear, and they have also asked good questions to the government, to which we have not received an answer. Which schools would not be able to receive any support if this resolution were voted through?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113840	I can say that I do not have specific names in schools. However, I have been informed that there are today about five schools that will probably be affected if this is implemented. I think it is really, really important that we find a balance, and I really hope that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen sees the good in it. I do not believe that it is a good thing to start hitting, for example. some schools that actually work well today and where there are good opportunities for fruitful cooperation. But I also hope that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen wants to help us solve this together. In fact, that is also what we secured in the text contained in the Finance Act, which was adopted together with the Danish People's Party last Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113929	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206113933	Thank you. I am here with a letter from the rapporteur of the Left last October in Berlingske, where the rapporteur of the Left criticises the then Danish People's Party proposal for a total ban on donations to free schools. In that letter, the Left rapporteur writes that in 2016 there were donations of 16.9 million. kr. to free schools in Denmark. What I am really curious about is: by the rapporteur of the Left, about the 16.9 million. kr. is from the local craft company here in Denmark, or is it donations from outside the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114020	I would also like to say that, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we have, in recent times, tightened up very much on supervision, among other things. In addition, more transparency is ensured. So there are free schools today, which benefit greatly from being able to raise money for example. to be able to establish a playground or, for that matter, to change the windows of the free school. I still have to say that I feel that it is really, really important that we also have those opportunities. We have ensured this, also with the things we have tightened up • that the local carpenter or plumbing company still has the opportunity to sponsor some amounts, but that it must of course be transparent. So I don't quite understand where it is, sir. Mattias Tesfaye wants to talk about the question he's asking. I have to say that I still feel that we have to remove the rotten apples in the box, in other words those who, frankly, are going to try to put pressure, undemocratic pressure on free schools. Of course, we must get them, and they must not be allowed to do so. However, I still think that we should ensure that there is also the possibility of getting donations to free schools, for example. in the case of sponsor bike races, as there are among others. is found part of around, especially in West Jutland, to make the economy stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114137	Thank you for your answer. Well, I can tell you where I'm going. The other day, I drove by some people who were selling Christmas trees. It was a free school that picked up for something at school, too. I think that is sympathetic and good and in order... some pupils and some parents who take ownership of their local school. The local free school, where I live, has also collected for a ballroom. After all, it is an integral part of the Danish free school tradition that we must safeguard. We fully agree with that. I can only note that in 2016 there were 16.9 million. kr. that was collected for Danish free schools, at least according to this letter, and I imagine that these are some of the activities I have just mentioned here. That is why I think it is a little interesting whether any of the money comes from outside the European Union. Is the rapporteur of the Left aware of this? Because then I can see that we will then have to discuss in more detail what kind of schools that is and where that money comes from. But as far as I can hear, the rapporteur of the Left is not aware that there are in fact any of these 16.9 million. kr. coming from outside the EU or EEA countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114237	So what I can tell you is what I have just said. Alex Ahrendtsen, that I have been informed that there are today about five schools that risk being hit if you do this. That's the information I have. I haven't got the names of those schools, but I've been told that there's about a handful, and I guess that's about five.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114258	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Jakob Silverhøj as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114307	Thank you. There are quite a lot of free schools and private schools today receiving grants from private donors. The figure has already been mentioned: 16.9 million. kr. Admittedly, it is a figure from 2016, so I do not know if it hits precisely. However, it is quite a lot of money that is being poured into private and free schools today from private people. Fortunately, we have legislation that has been put together in such a way that private subsidies must not affect the independence of schools or impose objectives other than those laid down in the law on free schools and private primary schools. In the view of the Enhedslisten, independence is an extremely important principle, which is why it makes sense for us to have legislation to ensure that there is transparency. That part of the legislation on the amendment of the law on the free schools, which involved a ban on anonymous donations of more than DKK 20,000, we could therefore also join the Enhedslisten, and for that matter we are happy to discuss and also gladly contribute to further lowering the limit. We also believe that there is cause for concern if there are forces trying to buy real influence on schools, which are, of course, illegal with our free school legislation. And we think it is a very serious matter if it is, as has been pointed out, that dictatorship countries such as Saudi Arabia or others are trying to circumvent the provisions we have in our legislation and, as it were, buy themselves into influence by private donations. On the other hand, we are concerned about the proposal made by the Danish People's Party to prohibit any form of financial support from foreign donors outside the EU and the EEA. What we are discussing here is, after all, a proposal in principle that schools cannot receive financial support from legal and natural persons outside the European Union and the EEA. This means, and several examples have already been mentioned, that schools will therefore not be able to receive private donations from Canada, the United States, extend even the range of countries. On the other hand, in a given piece of legislation, private money could be donated, for example, from private funds. Poland, Hungary or other countries in which the political regime is such that it does not have the sympathy of the Enhedslisten either. It is hardly the four countries I have mentioned here that have the attention of the proposers, but that will be the practical result of general legislation in principle. For the sake of good order, I must stress to this whole debate that it would be a great pleasure for us in the Enhedslisten if all schools and educational institutions in this country could operate with a reasonably good economy without receiving private donations. That's how I think we should organize our education system. We cannot support the specific proposal, but we are prepared for a closer discussion, and I think it might be interesting to see the figures that have now swirled around to see what it actually looks like: which schools are receiving which donations, and what will the concrete consequences of the proposal be? But as it is here, Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114710	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114715	We're sorry that Enhedslisten can't do that. The fact is that if we have a private school or a free school in Denmark that does not receive state subsidies, then any organisation outside Denmark can support the free school. You can own the building; you can rent it out to them; you can give them all the donations you want; you can give them all the computers you want. There are no restrictions. So Saudi Arabia, spending 500 billion. kr. Scientology in the United States could do the same, and there are close contacts today between some schools in Denmark and Scientology. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a huge problem that such organisations today would be able to run and support free schools without us actually being able to prevent it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114819	So, in general terms, we think that it must be the case that countries such as the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, We have also noted that this is not the only proposal of this nature put forward by the Danish People's Party. There are similar proposals on money transfers for the construction of mosques and what do I know? In other words, we do not think that we should be able to buy ourselves into an influence which we cannot have under Danish legislation. The question is whether we want legislation in this country where running a private or public school with public subsidies is incompatible with receiving private donations, whether from domestic or foreign. And we are not of the opinion that we should have such legislation. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen himself mentioned during the debate that it appears that it is hardly possible in Danish legislation to make special legislation in relation to individual countries. However, as I said, we are happy to discuss the proposal further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206114922	I could also give other examples, for example. a country like China with a billion inhabitants and lots of wealthy men, or Russia, who also have an interest in influencing by being able to run schools in Denmark. And with this proposal, we could prevent it. Why on earth, however, will the Enhedslisten not support that proposal? It's very simple. EU and EEA countries will continue to be able to support schools, but for all those bandit states around, we will be able to prevent it. It's very simple, and at least we've started somewhere. Today there is carte blanche; today there is freedom to do so. Why will the Enhedslisten not support the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the SF's proposals against influence through money from abroad outside the EU? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115009	As I said, Enhedslisten believes that it should not be possible to circumvent Danish legislation by buying influence through economic donations. That's the way our free school law is decorated. After all, the proposal before us has clearly shown the peculiarity that it allows donations from a particular group of countries, namely the countries within the European Union and the EEA, while the countries outside it will not be able to provide private donations. What is the really good explanation for being able to send money from Liechtenstein to private schools, but not from Switzerland, is difficult to see. And when we legislate, we cannot legislate on gut feeling and vision. After all, we need to look at what the concrete impact of the adoption of the bill will mean. And that's what we do in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115102	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115112	Thank you for the floor, President. What we are discussing is motion for a resolution B 22 on the limitation of foreign aid to Danish free schools. I would like to begin by saying that the Danish People's Party and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen probably knows very well that the Liberal Alliance and I agree very much with DF on the perception of the danger to the Danish state and society that Islamist regimes and their support for subversive forces in Denmark constitute. Several have already mentioned it, but I repeat: we are talking about wahabist regimes in the Gulf States. I can give you an example of Iran, and in some cases we can also mention Turkey. The jumping point, where I think it is important that we do not talk away from each other, is the question of something I am not really sure of what is called in Danish. It's calledcollateral Damage in English, maybe collateral damage in Danish. How much collateral damage to freedom and free schools can and should we tolerate? As far as I am concerned, that is what we are discussing. We agree with the intention of the proposal, namely to prevent free schools from being subjected to pressure from abroad from those who wish to oppose the Danish values which the free schools, following the descriptions and paragraphs of the Free School Act, must support. After all, the government and our good partners have already done a great deal, and of course we are also prepared to take more steps. This is clear from the Financial Law Agreement that has just been concluded. But I hope that, as I said, we can use this debate not to talk us away from each other, but to talk us closer together. Care must be taken not to cut off democratic organisations and individuals from the possibility of giving support if necessary. So the purpose of the proposal is good. I would like to stress that we take very seriously and are very much in agreement with the threat assessment, so we look forward, of course, at some point to a constructive solution. Of course, we would also like there to be some understanding that the very principle of what, in the absence of better words, can be called prophylactic bans, is something that needs to be discussed, because such prophylactic bans also have a certain consequence in terms of collateral damage for good, decent and sensible purposes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115408	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115421	Thank you. And I would like to thank the alternative for allowing me to skip into the series of speeches because I am going to present a great deal of agreement, but I would also like to say what SF thinks about this proposal. In the SF we feel that free schools and private schools are extremely important for Denmark, especially the free schools. We believe that they provide an educational alternative to the primary school, which we also love very much. But we think it is good that there is an opportunity to make an educational alternative. The free schools are helping to activate, I would say, or at least to involve some parents who take a great deal of responsibility for their children's school. The free schools are part of Danish school history, and that is how we must keep them safe. But we must also look after our children. I think it was Christen Kold who said: " Be careful, for there are people here. I always feel that way when we make school policy. And that is why I also feel that just as much as free schools, private schools must be given freedom, just as much as we must organise legislation in a way that will make us look after our children. That is why the SF back in 2016, when we discussed the religious preachers package, suggested that we should strengthen supervision. This led us to strengthen the supervision of free schools and private schools. In the second round, when it was strengthened again with a new package, we proposed several unannounced visits, and we also got that through, because supervision is very good. The schools that like do it really well, and it does by far the majority, have nothing to fear when there is supervision of visits. The supervisory unit which was watching the free schools and the private schools was quite weakened. In addition, we did what we also thought was a very good idea, a ban on anonymous donations, but already during the negotiations we actually said that we would like to see foreign donations banned completely if we could find a proper model for it. That's also why the SF is going to be in favour of this proposal. So, we do not believe that the school system in Denmark should be financed by funds that are in other countries. So, schools in Denmark must be financed by Danish citizens, that is our starting point. And there are several reasons for this. It's about whether we control what goes on in the schools. It is about who has the opportunity to influence in some way what you expose our children to. When you have made a very special arrangement with a switching rate where you can have user charges, which we can also be a bit skeptical about, but which we have just accepted because it is a special construction, well then we have accepted it because it is a user fee that is paid by Danish parents. So we don't think that what we need to fund our educations is big donations. There are two shortcomings in the fact that the economy of schools can be influenced by donations: one is independence. Well, it may be that we have a supervision that tries to find out if there is now total independence when Scientology sends money to a school, or when an Islamic or a very strong religious Muslim foundation sends money to a school, but what if you can't just find the jumping proof? Does that mean nothing's gonna happen? Does this mean that there is no talk if, for example, they do not talk. The building owns it? I think that is an argument for adopting this proposal. The second is that it also provides different conditions for private schools and free schools. In other words, the free schools and private schools that have strong money tanks in their backs are much better placed to provide good school offers to our children than others have; and I think that everyone therefore thinks this proposal is excellent. I told the authors that I had some questions about how this is actually going to work. And I really think that today's debate has shown that this is the right thing to do. I do not think there have been any good arguments for not doing so, so we in the SF are prepared to vote in favour of the resolution if it is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115824	Thank you. There are brief comments and the first is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115829	Thank you. And thank you for a very fine rapporteur's speech with many fine words. I have to say that I am actually surprised that the SF will be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, and I am, on the basis that I think it is precisely in the rapporteur's speech that all the good things are actually said in our free schools in this country. I would like to ask a question: is the SF rapporteur not at all nervous about whether the motion for a resolution that we are debating here today could put some very good, constructive and fruitful cooperation with other countries, i.e. the implications of this resolution? And I would also like to ask some of what the rapporteur said, that only Danish citizens should have the opportunity to support Danish free schools. Okay, then that means a grandmother, like... has moved to Canada, can't have the opportunity to sponsor a child in a free school in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206115946	In relation to the implications, I would say that no, I was not particularly nervous about that in the debate, and that is also why the SF was positive about the proposal. I have also tried to ask various rapporteurs and also the Minister here today what this will have as a result of concrete consequences, and I have not heard one specific answer as to what negative effects this would have. And then I compare it with SF's position in principle, namely that Danish schools should be funded in Denmark, that is to say that we as welfare societies are rich enough to make sure that our children get a good school offer; it should not be dependent on what money you have in your back. And then I haven't mentioned the benefits in terms of avoiding getting involved in Scientology or anything else. So, no, I'm not so nervous about that. Then the rapporteur asks whether a grandmother should not support and help with the user fee and whether it should only be Danish citizens. No, of course you can. That is not the point of the proposal either. And there must be freedom to help if you are in Denmark and if you have family etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206120046	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206120051	I fully agree with that. In other words, I hope that the SF will not go so far as to set up, in some way or other, a gate which makes it possible, for example. a Danish-minded grandmother in another country cannot support a free school if it is the case that they collect money for a new playground etc. Sir. Jacob Mark also said that there should be no different conditions, and therefore there must be an end to those with a cash tank in their backs. But even if you make that stop-block, will there still be different conditions, depending on where the free school is, and whether there is a possibility that a local company in that area will back up the free school or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206120135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206120138	Yes, and in the SF, we believe that we must do everything we can to make up for these differences. And that is why we, for example. We have said that we have to look at the financial subsidy system for private schools and free schools, because they get the same thing, but the free schools in the countryside are in a very different situation from the private schools in the big cities, where it is pouring in with pupils. The free schools, which take a great many pupils with special needs and they do have a very different situation from the private schools in the big cities, can be seen in the statistics. So, yes, we would like to continue working on how we can ensure more equal conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206120210	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206120214	I would like to thank the SF and Mr. Jacob Mark for his unequivocal support and for the fact that we will vote in favour at second reading. I think it's liberating, so clear the Social Democrats and the SF have been. I would also like to thank you for your excellent speech and for the excellent answers to, among others, the question. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, who brings out a Danish-minded grandmother, even though no one has ever heard of a Danish-minded grandmother in Canada who has ever supported a free school and who would then get into a mess. And that is quite right: there have been no concrete examples of who it will harm. That is why it may well be surprising that the government and the Left are so determined to fight this, even if they agree with the intention. It's nice that Mr. Jacob Mark stood firm, and I just want to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206120303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206120307	Well, thank you. I am also glad that I managed to tell you about our reasons for joining us. I agree that sometimes, if you have to reject a proposal and cannot find anything concrete to reject it on, it is a classic political trick to take hypothetical examples. However, I do not think that we should assess the resolution on this, especially in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206120327	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. We are now taking a break and the sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206125959	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue the first reading of motion for a resolution No. B-22 and continues in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130014	Thank you so much. It was of course an interesting debate we had before lunch, which we are now resuming, which is about the Danish People's Party's motion for a parliamentary resolution that we should limit foreign support to Danish free schools, understood that we should actually make it quite illegal to support Danish free schools with foreign donations. We do not support the proposal of the Alternative, and we do not, because we actually see a strength in that we can get inspiration from outside Denmark in relation to the Danish free school tradition. I myself have been thinking about this motion for a resolution and I was just talking to the Minister, who had also thought the same thing: that with the whole Montessori tradition it is a pretty interesting example of a free school tradition that we have got to Denmark from abroad. It comes from Italy, and it is within the European Union, but in principle it could have come from elsewhere. But the whole idea that you can actually have some educational traditions in our free schools, which come from outside and have something in them that we do not have in Denmark, which we have not established ourselves in Denmark, would certainly fall if such a proposal as this was decided, because it would then no longer be possible with inspiration from foreign educational traditions to establish free schools in Denmark, unless Danish capital had been made available. If you raise the debate a little, it will be such a worrying one, I think, national conservative proposal, and I am actually somewhat surprised at the support for the proposal in broad terms in the House. It is not my job to assess it, but I think it is actually possible to recognise that there are some problems. I fully agree that we should not have free schools that receive money from organisations such as the United Kingdom. is anti-democratic. I fully agree with that. You could then spread it out and ask: should you as a country trade with countries that are not democratic? Are you going to have any commercial interests with Saudi Arabia as a country? We could also have that discussion. I don't think it's on this committee, but it's somewhere else. However, the whole point that we are doing business in one way or another with either countries, states or, for that matter, organisations which do not comply with a valid democratic set of values or which do not respect human rights is interesting to me to discuss. But it must be possible to do so in other ways than to have a ban on donations, because it will cut off what I mentioned earlier, namely the establishment of new educational traditions in free schools, and cut off, as we have also mentioned in the debate, the Caroline School, the Jewish Free School, from receiving donations from, for example, the United Kingdom. The United States, as well as a lot of other free schools which might be of interest and which had to have an opportunity for some donors around in some countries outside the European Union to support their operation. After all, we have an oversight that would very much like to catch it. In principle, we cannot and must not influence the activities of the school as a donor in relation to the supervision we have. I mean, you can give some money, but you must not influence how that money is spent because you have to live up to the law. There is supervision to ensure that the school complies with the legislation and the values and purpose clauses contained in the legislation. So this is also in some way a suspicion that supervision will catch it if there are cases where foreign money affects the school's working attitude. Well, I actually agree with that, sir. Jakob Silverhøj mentioned, and I thought it myself. Why don't we first set the limit on when anonymous donations can be received? In principle, you could just say that everything that is beyond this $1,000. e.g. or symbolic gifts, cannot be anonymous. At least we have an opportunity to see where the money comes from. However, I would also very much like to discuss the possibility of looking at donations when they come to the country, in other words some sort of screening of them, so that it could be said that if they come from organisations that are deliberately anti-democratic, in addition to those that we have already banned, namely those that come from terrorist organisations, then one could have an agency that could stop that influx. But I would say that I am very concerned if we in Denmark start to shut down the possibility that our free schools can receive what can be called positive donations with a positive purpose in helping these free schools to have a raison d'être and could serve as free schools if they are dependent on those funds. So we do not support the resolution, but thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130516	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130519	I think I'm gonna have to sort out some misunderstandings. As a free school, one will always be able to handle educational traditions and be inspired. This bill isn't about that. It is all about whether free schools are school in buildings owned by organisations outside the EU, i.e. an extreme Muslim organisation in Saudi Arabia or the Chinese state or Scientology in the United States. That's what this is about. Then I will also clarify another misunderstanding. Surveillance has nothing to do with this. Because there is no law preventing an organisation outside the EU, outside Denmark, from buying a building and funding a free school that does not so the resolution tries to counter it. It's not about educational traditions. They will continue to do so, even if this is adopted. My question is this: now that I have explained the misunderstandings which the alternative rapporteur has got himself into, does this change the rapporteur's position on the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130640	No. We have no problem with a foreign organization buying and owning a building in which a free school runs free school. Why is that a problem? It helps the school work because you don't have to buy the building yourself etc. But why is it a problem that it is a foreign organization? I don't care if it's Scientology or some Jewish organization in the United States or what it is. But why is it a problem that for that matter a foreign organization or state owns a building in which a free school can run free school? It is not a problem as a starting point. If it is then an anti-democratic organisation which has a conscious purpose in subjugating democracy, or what I know, then it may be a problem and then we have to look at it. As Mrs Anni Matthiesen said very correctly from up here earlier, we must find the rotten apples in the box. We want to be a part of that. But that is not a problem in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130733	So the rapporteur does not think that an extreme Muslim organisation from Iraq would be a problem, as happened in the northwest, where there was a free school that rented buildings owned by this extreme organisation, which among other things. is in favour of the punishment of homosexuals. You don't think that's a problem. I think that's interesting to hear from the alternative. The second is that if a free school is no longer independent financially, then we have a problem. After all, it is no longer the teachers and the head of the school who control the teaching and teaching. No, then it's some imams or some statesmen or some Scientology people who run the school. Then it is no longer independent. Would it not be wise to vote in favour of this proposal so that we avoid foreign donations deciding how free schools without state subsidies are to be conducted in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130835	I think the questioner and the rapporteur must have their ears washed, because they have not listened to what I said properly. I said that it could be a problem if there is an anti-democratic organisation that owns a building, and that is the one in which a free school runs school. Then it could be a problem. As a starting point, I say, it is no problem that foreign organisations or states or individuals donate money to a building or own a building. In the event that their work is not democratic or is contrary to human rights, that may be a problem, and we shall have to look at it. However, this motion for a resolution throws a bullet in it, because it closes off all the good organisations with good intentions and good traditions which have the opportunity to invest in buildings into which free schools can rent themselves. So as a starting point, it is not a problem. There are some individual problems, and we must attack them individually and individually.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130929	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see the radical rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr von der Vring. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206130948	Thank you, President. Thank you for the debate, thank you for the speeches, thank you also for the criticism, but first of all thanks to the SF and the Social Democrats for the unequivocal support for the proposal and for the fact that they have indicated that they will vote in favour at any second reading. I think that's nice. I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs of both parties for very clear speeches and very clear answers and for understanding what this is really about. It is simply a matter of there being a gap in the law. Well, foreign donations can flow to Denmark, and we can't do anything. Then there is a money-rich organization somewhere in Saudi Arabia or in the United States or in China or Russia that will support a free school with money, they can do so as long as the free school no longer receives state subsidies. And what's the problem with that? After all, there are a number of Muslim free schools that have lost their state subsidies because they have been rooted in matters, or because they have had extreme people associated with them, or because they have found jihad material, etc., and these schools could be tempted to go to Saudi Arabia and ask for a rich man down there to support them. They'll be able to do that. There's nothing stopping them from doing that. Is that so unlikely? No, Saudi Arabia has spent 500 billion since 1973. kr. to invest in schools and educations around in countries where there is Muslim majority, and it is an extreme version of Islam called wahabism. When the people who have been trained return home, they are often extreme. And they also invest in schools, thereby undermining the societies that exist. This could also happen in Denmark, and there are already examples that it is so small going on. These people will be able to finance a free school in Denmark. One can also imagine that Scientology might do the same. We know that there are free schools in Denmark which have close contacts with Scientology. They will also be able to obtain support from them and be run by the Scientology Fund if it is they lose their state subsidies. It's not okay. Surely we must put an end to that. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have proposed something quite simple, and that is that you cannot own a building, rent a building or otherwise support a free school in Denmark if you are not part of the EU or EEA countries, and EEA countries are among other things. Norway and Switzerland. I could understand that, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, that a rich man in Switzerland would not be able to support a school. This is possible because Switzerland is also part of the EEA. Then I would like to comment on some of the speeches made by the rapporteurs. I will begin with the alternative rapporteur, who, unfortunately, is no longer in the Chamber, but I will do so anyway. It was quite strange, of course, that the rapporteur had not even considered what the resolution is about. The rapporteur for the alternative thought that this proposal would ban educational traditions from other countries from flowing into Denmark. It was quite funny, because educational traditions cannot be banned. A free school and a circle of parents can of course be inspired by educational traditions in other countries and start a free school on that foundation. No, this is about money, and this is about addiction. We do not want free schools in Denmark, which can be completely dependent on money-strong organisations that oppose Denmark. It's not in our interest. Nor will supervision be able to do anything, because the law does not mean that foreign organizations can go in and buy a free school or rent buildings for it. I am, of course, disappointed that the government, that is, the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, cannot support the proposal. And it is even more strange when, at the same time, a financial agreement has been signed with the Danish People's Party last Friday, and there you have undertaken to combat donations to mosques, associations etc. Now that things become concrete in the Parliament, you do not want to, then you only back the intention of not supporting the proposal. Then I can begin to suspect that the text of the Finance Act was just a kind of jelly jar, a declaration of intent, but after all, nothing will be done. For a school can also be an association. So there's something going in different directions, sir. Minister and government, and I think that is a pity. Reference has been made to the United States of America. Well, as I said, in the United States, there is Scientology, and that is not something we should have to manage our schools in Denmark. There may also be extreme organisations over there, even though it is a freedom-loving country. Then the rapporteur from the Left, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, invented a Danish-minded grandmother in Canada. It was then asked how many Danish-minded grandmothers who at one time wanted to support a free school in Denmark and have supported it so much that they paid it entirely themselves. We have not been able to get an answer to that. There was also mention that five schools might be affected by this. We have not been told which schools they are and how much they are being affected by. I know, sir. Mattias Tesfaye has asked how many of the 16.9 million. kr., which the donations to free schools today make up, are from abroad. We have not been able to get an answer to that either. And Mr. Jacob Mark actually said it very well: no specific reference has been made to any problems anywhere. You just turned it down without giving proper answers. And that's actually just what Mr. Jacob Mark has fully supported the motion for a resolution together with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. Sir. Henrik Dahl mentions collateral damage, that is to say that the motion for a resolution may have consequences or collateral damage, which we are not really aware of. Some of the collateral damage could then be the rich man from the United States who supports a free school in Denmark. But it's a little odd, because this is a simple way of dealing with it. It is as simple as it is with the absenteeism rule in high schools that the government has introduced. This rule that we want to add to the law is this: you cannot donate money, you cannot own buildings, you cannot rent buildings to free schools unless you are resident in the EU or in an EEA country. It's as simple as it can be. The government imagines that we can discriminate. You could say that the hypothetical Danish-minded grandmother in Canada can be allowed, but that the hypothetical extreme organization in Canada cannot be allowed. I therefore do not believe that the European Union is doing so, and I know that the government is very much committed to meeting the conventions and regulations of the European Union. I think you're gonna get overruled. So the good solution, the easy solution, is the one that applies to everyone outside the EU and the EEA countries. And that solution is even in line with the financial law agreement entered into by the government. That is why I really very much hope that the government will take the initiative to incorporate this as a legislative proposal. There is a majority in the Folketing and I am, of course, willing to put it to the vote at second reading if the government does not somehow find out that it might be a good idea for us to make this as a legislative proposal. The Minister has heard the debate. I would urge the Minister to go back to the whole government and say clearly that she did what she could, but that there was a majority, and now we have to find a rule that we can all be satisfied with. We hope, of course, in the Danish People's Party that we can do this broadly, so that we get a good deal that everyone in the Danish Parliament supports. That's my rewarding hope. Once again, I would like to thank the SF and the Social Democrats for their unequivocal support for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206131926	There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206131942	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 11 December 2018. I shall begin by giving the floor to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, for reasons of justification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206132009	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has chosen to convene this inquiry debate with the wording: Will the Minister explain whether the municipalities comply with the intentions and legislation of the Children's Reform and what the Minister will do to municipalities that do not comply with the reform? The reason why we have once again chosen to call this inquiry debate on the Children's Reform, the implementation of this law by the municipalities and the administration of the Service Act is that the Danish People's Party considers it extremely important to continue to focus more on this area. The overall objective of the child's reform at the time of its adoption was to ensure continuity of placement, to ensure stable and close adult contact for vulnerable children, to strengthen the interests of the child, to safeguard the rights of vulnerable children, to ensure previous efforts, to ensure more quality both in the case and in the action. The Danish People's Party is concerned about the treatment of vulnerable children and their families, their networks and foster families throughout our system. We're worried about system failure. And although we have taken a great many political initiatives following the child's reform, which should make things better in the work of vulnerable children, their families, their networks, yes, it lags behind. Unfortunately, in the Danish People's Party we often experience cases where siblings are not placed together, what else is the purpose of the law. We often experience association between children and their families or networks or other associates, for example. also a former foster family, being cut to the minimum or being cut completely away on the grounds that it is for the sake of the child's health and well-being not to have contact. We also find that young people and children are often not heard in relation to their wishes or their needs. Studies have also shown this. We find that early action is not being implemented quickly enough, or not at all, in relation to the prevention clause of the Service Act. We experience a lack of quality assurance in section 50 studies, in parental competence studies, in children's conversations, which should not just be a fly bone. We also often hear about threats of coercion, and we have just had a consultation on this today. That is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that there should be a whole change of culture in this area, and we look forward to the debate today. We also hope that we can find good solutions in this area together.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206132251	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the answer and it delivers the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206132307	Thank you for the floor. I have been asked to explain whether the municipalities are complying with the intentions and legislation of the Children's Reform and also what I am going to do with municipalities, which are therefore not fulfilling the reform. Just under two years ago, I had been called for a question debate on the same subject and, in the relatively short time available, there has been no fundamental change in my view of the subject. I still think, overall, that we are very well on the way to getting the idea set widely from among others. The child's reform to the municipalities. This is important because I believe that the tasks in the social field are best carried out by the municipalities. The municipalities are closest to the citizens and are therefore also in the best position to make efforts to meet the needs of the individual child and the individual family. Having said that, unfortunately, there are also municipalities which still have difficulties in complying with the rules in this area, and that is, of course, totally unacceptable. The municipalities must be able to do so beyond any discussion or doubt, and this, of course, also applies to the changes introduced by the child's reform. I believe, however, that we have jointly set in motion a number of sensible initiatives across the middle, which I have made clear to me has helped to boost the efforts of vulnerable children and young people. Here, of course, I can mention the 2010 Children's Reform, which had the overriding purpose of putting a thick line under the fact that the child's best must always be at the centre of the aid and support that the municipalities are putting into place. In addition, with the 2013 abuse package, we made a massive effort to strengthen the prevention and management of child abuse. With the 2014 prevention package, we made an agreement to support early preventive work in the municipalities, and with the 2014 supervisory reform we created five supervisory units in the social field, i.e. the Social Inspectorate. As Minister for Children and Social Affairs, better involvement of the child in my own case has been high on my agenda and also on the agenda of other political parties, and it was also important to me that we in the 2018 rate pool focused on better child involvement in the municipalities' casework with a children's rights package. For the municipalities must talk to the children in order to see what problems they are wrestling with and what help is needed. They must be involved in decisions that may have major consequences for their lives. The selection of measures I have mentioned here has just highlighted the quality of the case and the need to take action in the past and more systematically. But these are also measures that need time to work. I believe that we all agree that it is not easy to translate the rules of the law into radical changes at the extremes of the municipalities. However, if we are to increase the quality and efforts in the field of children, it is my belief that we must continue to focus on strengthening the impact of efforts with close follow-up in families. This is, for me, a key element in solving the challenges that exist in this area today. We're already at work. Among other things: With the 2017 Rate Pool, it was agreed to invest massively in the development and spread of effective methods and practices to the municipalities. In addition, we have recently decided in the 2019 rate pool to invest massively by 249 million. kr. in the years 2019-2022 and 71 million; kr. annually thereafter for a development and investment programme in the field of children and young people. The programme shall include both screening, ripening and testing of social interventions and the dissemination of effective interventions. After all, the development and investment programme is a step in the right direction for a more knowledge-based and effective social policy based on methods and initiatives which are sought in the municipalities and which work. In the end, it must help to ensure that social efforts make a real difference to children and young people, so that they are less exposed and so that children and young people with disabilities have enhanced opportunities for personal development, health and independent adulthood. Finally, the teachings of e.g. The child's reform for me to see that we need to follow up much better on the implementation of major reforms. That is why I have also taken the lead in following the efforts of the municipalities more closely. Among other things: Therefore, every year I publish a Danish map of turnover rates in the Danish Agency of Appeal on the basis of complaints about the municipality's decisions in the whole social area. This must, of course, make the municipalities' overall responsibility for the quality of the case and create transparency, as well as highlight the fact that correct decisions are being taken. Now, would some say, it may well be that there is a difference between sending a case back for review because of serious substantive errors, or it is a procedural error in what you would call the slightly lighter end, where you might not have been handed down some documents. Listen to me once: It's important no matter what. Whatever the case, it is that there are families waiting to get the right decision, and it is precisely here that we want to make the general responsibility of the municipalities visible. Therefore, we have also decided in the 2019 rate pool to follow the quality of the municipalities' casework annually through a new survey concept. The study will provide an overview of the current developments in the quality of the case management in the area of children and young people and will include: ensure that all 98 municipalities are monitored so frequently that the incentive for municipalities to comply with applicable legislation is increased. At the same time, it has become mandatory in the 2019 rate pool for municipalities to report § 11 interventions in the Service Act, so that a more accurate picture of which and how many efforts the municipalities are undertaking is provided. Actually, you shouldn't be so worried about that. I actually choose to interpret it as being positive that we see an increase in the number of § 11 interventions, because it is an expression of a change, so that you actually come in at an earlier time and support families and help families. So there is no doubt that it is of great importance to have this change made. Finally, we have also agreed for the 2019 rate pool to launch three initiatives to improve the decision-making framework in cases of placement without consent. For there is no doubt that if parents can take care of the child's development and well-being, it is the best solution for the child to stay in the family, possibly with special support for the child or family. It could be a section 11-effort that I just mentioned. Therefore, it will be a legal requirement, firstly, that the recommendation for placement without consent to children and young people's committees should include a separate assessment of parents' competences in dealing with the child and the child's possible challenges. Secondly, there is a requirement that when psychological studies are carried out on parents in the context of the child-care study, this should be done with the use of an authorised psychologist. This should ensure a certain quality in the studies carried out on parental competences. Thirdly, the current guidelines for the preparation of parental competence studies from 2011 are now updated so that they are up-to-date and contain the latest knowledge on the subject. In addition, I would like to initiate a new study to identify the causes of the increase in the number of placements without consent, including in relation to placements of children and young people with disabilities. It is clear from the legislation that the municipality must always try to obtain the consent of the parents or young people for a placement, and therefore the study must make us more aware of why it is increasingly placed without consent. Finally, it is important to bear in mind that, in relation to the municipalities which fail to fulfil their obligations, there is a very special system of intervention to ensure the best interests of the child. Anyone who finds that a municipality does not provide a child with the support he or she needs can contact the Ankestyrelsen, who, on his or her own initiative, can go into a case and decide on support for a child. In addition, the municipalities of the country are also subject to the municipal supervision of the Ankestyrelsen and the supervision may, if necessary, impose sanctions in relation to illegal municipal decisions, including periodic penalty payments on the responsible municipal councillors. Furthermore, with the government's decision to abolish limitation periods in cases of sexual abuse against children, it is made clear that the public authorities have a responsibility to intervene. And if they do not, then victims of abuse can now claim compensation against public authorities, even if they do not have the courage to take up the fight until they have grown up. So I do not think that we are in line with the efforts in the field of children yet, but I believe that if we stick to the tracks we have put together, keep the focus on the impact of the interventions, we are also heading in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133253	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is, of course, the case that in this round there is one question for each of the rapporteurs sitting up here in the front row, and there are already a few who would like to take advantage of it. The first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133307	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's speech. All the things the Minister outlines in relation to what we have done are something that the Danish People's Party has been involved in and had a great influence on. We fully agree that the challenge is to implement them, and the challenge is also that, in relation to many of the things outlined by the Minister today, it is a long time before they are adopted and become legislation. When the Minister speaks today of municipal supervision and complaining, I would like to ask: how many sanctions have been imposed on municipalities that do not comply with the law in this area? We have seen municipalities that have closed down cases, we have seen municipalities that have failed in this area. Have any sanctions actually been imposed? I think the Minister knows the answer. At least I do. But I would like to hear the Minister's reply from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133404	Yeah, and so do I. It is important to say that a system has been set up to be able to impose sanctions so that the system exists. But it is true that it is not the same as a system being then used. And that is why I am not aware of the fact that there have been decisions imposing fines on municipal councillors. However, it is important to say that throughout the whole work of securing children, implementing the child's reform, we have taken a whole series of decisions. When I sit and look down on the list of major decisions, it's both in 2014, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, and lure me, if not also next year we're going to make a number of decisions that will in turn strengthen the case-law, which will support parents' legal certainty, children's legal certainty, children's right to be heard. So we are working on the opportunities that we have to ensure that there is a better procedure and that there are not such high rates of conversion so that we can keep our hands on the children and young people who are facing challenges today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133514	The next question is Mrs Malou Lunderød, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133518	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the Minister for a thorough examination. I very much agree with the review of the many measures that have been taken and also with the fact that they have, of course, contributed a great deal along the way to putting the child at the centre of this. Unfortunately, I think we just have a very long way to go and, as the Minister also says, we are not in the process of implementing. And recently the Citizen's Adviser in the City of Copenhagen actually made a statement which had been based on 77 cases, and not in a single case it was made entirely according to the book; there were errors in all of them • different errors, of course, but errors in all of them. I find that very worrying, because it is still a few years ago that the child's reform was decided. Could the Minister make a few comments on what that report shows, and perhaps also say what the Minister thinks is the biggest barrier to us getting to the bottom of the implementation and where it works in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133614	It has to be said that it is shameful and that it is simply the City of Copenhagen that should be ashamed of making mistakes in so many cases. And the City of Copenhagen has no doubt at all about what my position is on this matter, because I have made that very clear. But I also think we must be honest and say that the answers from us who are in the Parliamentary Chamber are broadly very different. For some of what I am aware of is that the Social Democratic Party would like to do, for example, that when you have to place one child, it is not enough for you to put a whole group of siblings. And there are some of us who have some difficulty with that, because we think that we need to take as a starting point the well-being of the individual child, the challenges of the individual child, the situation of the individual child, and there can therefore be a very good reason for placing one child, but without placing an entire group of siblings. So for the time being, we have tried to balance it in such a way, and some will say that it is a challenge for the system we have been in my view, in fact, it is a strength that we have managed to balance it across political divisions so that everyone can actually see themselves in the systems that we have set up, where we hear the child, strengthens the legal certainty of the parents and, at the same time, ensure that we are required to deal with the case which is going on in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133731	Next question is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133734	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Minister for a thorough reply. And yes, we've all been involved in some of the things that have been done, or pretty much all of them. I have one thing to say and I very much agree with the Minister that it is important to examine what is ahead of the placements where it takes place without consent. But maybe I'd like us to try to expand it a little. For it is of course always important to seek parental consent, and the placement courses, which take place with the consent of the parents, are typically also the placement courses that work best. But there's a middle group of them here where the parents have actually given consent, but where it's a little with the arm behind their backs. I would like to know whether the Minister is also interested in trying to see whether the cases where consent has been given have also been properly clarified whether there has been proper involvement and proper consultation of the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133836	In any case, I think it may be difficult to obtain a valid basis from which to examine. Because that will certainly require that we go down in some cases where, on the basis of the assumption that there has been insufficient support or that the parents have felt pressured. And then, in cases where you suspect it, you will find that the result would be that there has been such a presumption. So immediately I find it hard to see a study design that will actually make us wiser and will be able to provide more knowledge. But having said that, I really think it is a good point that SF and Mrs Trine Torp are raising this whole time to make sure that we learn more about the reasons why it is being placed; ensure that the support we give prior to placement is in order in terms of quality; that you get your hand helped and stretched out to the parents who need support; that you have a trusting cooperation so that the parents do not experience the municipality as a opponent, but experience it as a co-player. So there are a number of different handles that we've turned on so far and that we can also turn forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133955	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206133959	Thank you. It is true that we hear many stories from real life, which, unfortunately, in the words of the Minister, are shameful, despite the fact that the child's reform has many good intentions in it. Unfortunately, we are also hearing about case workers who have a great many children's cases on their desks. Some have up to 60 cases lying around. This is likely to mean something for quality, and it probably also means something for the number of mistakes that are made because there is no time to deal with matters properly. But this also probably means that the early effort, that is, that we intervene before the problems get too big, is also very, very difficult to make for the individual case worker in the individual family. I would just like to know whether the Minister thinks that the Danish case-handlers who are dealing with children's cases have, overall, too many cases on their desks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206134053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206134054	What I have a very sharp focus on is to ensure that there is the necessary quality in the case-law, and I think it would be premature of me if I started to go in and would regulate how many cases you have or what level of education you should have, for example, as a case-worker. So I am concerned that the very quality of the procedure is in order, and that is also why if you do not as a family, a citizen or a family member experience that it is okay, you have an opportunity to complain. And the Ankestyrelsen also has the possibility of being able to enter a number of these cases of its own motion. Then I would just add one simple fact, namely that the number of placements has actually decreased. This is not because we have seen an increase in the number of placements. On the other hand, we have seen an increase in the number of Article 11 measures, and this might well suggest that at least some municipalities are changing their efforts from having many cases on the table, when the problems have grown large, to actually providing the right support, before those problems become so large that they eventually end up with a placement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206134207	There are no more brief comments in this instance, so I would like to thank the Minister. We move on to the debate itself, and the first on the platform here is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206134225	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's speech, to which I would just like to say a few words. Because when we talk about quality assurance in these studies, which the Minister also mentions, there is no such thing as a rule on how to ensure it, in other words how to ensure the quality of those studies? I am talking about both section 50 studies and parental competence studies, but also in relation to children's conversations. Another thing the Minister mentioned was that she did not want to assess in relation to education requirements, but I have to say on the part of the Danish People's Party that when you are dealing with such important matters about families and children that is what this is all about, it is also important that you have an education and a knowledge in order to be able to carry it out. What we hear, I just have to say, is that it is missing there. We also hear that it may be an untrained social worker who can do this here, and that is certainly a problem, as I would just like to mention to make some comments before I start my own speech and I do so now. When we have this debate today, it is important for me to say that this is not about whether you are for or against placement. It is about the right children being placed on a well-documented and enlightened basis. Compulsory separation of children from their parents must be considered to be the most intrusive decision one can experience as a citizen of Denmark. For, on the one hand, consideration is given to the right of the parties to family life and respect for the close relationship between the child and the parents, and, on the other hand, consideration is given to the health of the child, the well-being of the child and the development of the child. At the same time, both children and parents are in an extremely vulnerable and vulnerable situation, while they are undergoing a complex process which will form the basis for a decision on compulsory detention. It is therefore also absolutely crucial that the process is surrounded by the highest possible level of legal certainty and that the necessary support is provided to parents and children. There is a lack of quality assurance in the case-file when an administration has to decide on various measures for children and young people. A large part of the municipalities' decisions are being reversed in the Ankestyrelsen. In 2017, 54 per cent was spent. of the decisions complained of have been reversed. Failures and shortcomings in the initial course of the procedure before the imposition of a penalty can of course have a huge impact on whether or not the matter is at all a matter of coercion. If the family had received the needed help and support, it might have been avoided. At the same time, errors and shortcomings at this stage may mean that serious cases in which children should be placed may not be enforced quickly enough because the full scale of the problems is not being identified. Justitia has described in their report that studies in the field of placement in general, both the volunteers and the compulsory placements, both by the Ankestyrelsen, but also by the National Audit Office and, as previously mentioned, by the City of Copenhagen's Citizen's Adviser, have also identified problems in complying with the requirements of the case's information, including the collection of central studies and the provision of the child's position on placement. For example: The Citizen's Adviser in Copenhagen states that not one of the children's cases meets all the procedural requirements involved in the Citizen's Adviser's investigation. Thus, there are errors in 100 per cent. of the cases. That's very troubling. I would also like to know in this debate what criteria are defined in relation to the health of the child or young person when applying Section 71 of the Services Act. 3, because that paragraph is often used to reduce or eliminate the association of the child. I read it out straight away: "When necessary for the health or development of the child or young person, the children and young people's committee may decide, for a certain period of time, that association may take place only in the presence of a representative of the municipality. Under the same conditions, and also for a specified period, a decision may be taken to terminate the connection in the form of contact or mail, mail or telephone connection between the parents or the network and the child or young person, and a decision may be taken that the location of the child or young person should not be disclosed to the parents or the network. ▪ The reason why I read it out is that I think we should take a closer look at this, because of course there should be an opportunity to protect the child, but it must not be a paragraph you just pull out of the drawer to put the association down. I have met children who are worse off being placed, and then one has to conclude that the placement certainly does not meet the purpose. I have met parents, grandparents, who are left and left on the platform after a placement and do not get the help and support they need afterwards. I have spoken to foster parents who are suddenly deprived of their foster child because of disagreements with a municipality regarding remuneration... a problem where the child becomes hostage in the system... Second Vice-President Time has passed, yes.). Time's up? Well, I have so much to say, but then I followed up later. We have, for example. also suggested by the Danish People's Party that it should be the case that in large conflicts between the municipality, the foster family etc. could catch up with an independent conflict broker. And then I have to come back with all the other things I have, because it's just so important an area. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206134829	Is there a proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206134844	Yeah, that's it. I'm gonna have to look at all my papers. Now it's just gone, where the hell do I have it? Thank you, Minister! Great! It is then on behalf of the government and the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption • Vulnerable children and young people and their families must be helped. The Danish Parliament has adopted major reforms and legislative changes in the last 10 years to support this effort. The Danish Parliament notes that there are still challenges with the implementation of legislation by the municipalities, including the Children's Reform. Municipalities must comply with the law. The Danish Parliament therefore expects the government to follow up better on the implementation of new reforms by the municipalities, including using relevant tools and sanctions for municipalities that do not comply with the law. In 2012, a follow-up was carried out on the implementation of the Children's Reform. Parliament calls on the government to continue to monitor compliance with the legislation closely and to investigate the reasons for the increase in placements without consent, including the extent of placements of children and young people with disability. The Danish Parliament also expects the government to continue to work to ensure that the municipalities base their work more on knowledge of impact and ensure that families are heard to improve their efforts towards vulnerable children, young people and their families. • V 30).
ParlaMint-DK_20181206134958	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. The rapporteur does not get away entirely, because there are short remarks. The first question is Mrs Malou Lunderød, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135009	Thank you to the rapporteur. I share the concern about the reports coming from the municipalities about how things stand. And I would actually like to ask the rapporteur the same question I asked the Minister. 'Cause I'm really preoccupied with and curious about this, about what it really is that's at the core, that's the essence of the fact that it looks like it does? Why is it so hard to implement this? Is it due to the fact that there are simply too many cases on the table? Is it simply due to sloppyness? Is it due to some structural conditions that make it difficult to deal with these cases? So will the rapporteur share his views on what the rapporteur thinks is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135049	I am sure the rapporteur will. Because I think that this is about many of the perspectives that the rapporteur lists. I also think it's about culture. It is also about visible management. I also think that this is, of course, about social workers being pressured from above. It is about the fact that it can be difficult to follow the law precisely, because of course there are also changes in the law. It is about ensuring that we also send out good guidance from the Folketing, precisely so that you can keep track of what is happening with legislative changes. So it's about a lot of things. But I think it's important that we on the part of the Danish Parliament always have an increased focus on this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135141-2	Thank you. I share and very much agree with the consideration that there are many factors at stake. And I would just like to raise a small flag for the proposal for adoption that we ourselves will be presenting shortly, which is trying to address these many different things, among other things. What the rapporteur mentions with leadership and so on. So I'm just gonna sign for those perspectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135207	Thank you. I've got something in my throat here, and I'm drinking some old water that somebody else's been drinking. Well, the difference between your adoption and our adoption is, of course, that your adoption is a lot about the Social Inspectorate and the Social Protection Reform, which we had just been sitting and negotiating, but which just the Social Democracy did not really, you might say, would give in to. That is why it was not negotiated. In the Danish People's Party we were willing to sit at the negotiating table, but that was not the wish of the Social Democrats. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135243	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135251	I just wanted to ask whether the rapporteur would like to continue where she was interrupted so that I could just hear it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135300	The rapporteur continues.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135302	Yeah, I got ten pages. Where I came to is that I have experienced that what is called the child's attachment is being looked at pretty much. The relationship with their carers, which is incredibly important. I would also like to say from the platform that we have just had several members of the Social Affairs Committee: we have had lawyers inside, we have had relatives inside, we have had foster families inside, we have had grandparents inside to shout, and then we have seen several documentary programmes on the failure of families, children and their networks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135339	Is there a follow-up question? There is not, so I would like to thank the rapporteur, who can rest his neck a little bit. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line and now we are going to something as festive as a maiden speech given by Mrs Malou Lunderød from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135357	Thank you. When I was a child and went to Maglelikskolen in Frederiksværk, we actually held a Christmas concert, and I came to think of it so much, because it is now Christmas. I was just so preoccupied with the song we were going to sing, because it was this song by Kim Larsen called "All children are entitled." One of the things you sing in that song is: • All children have the right/to grow up in peace/All children have the right/to a life of love/Could stay with their family/a place that is safe and nice/All children have the right/to get the best start. In fact, I think it is a song that in many ways is good to have in mind when we are discussing today, because what we are discussing today is the children who are not I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this question on such an important subject, so that we can have it debated today. Unequal conditions and conditions in growing up are one of the most unfair things that exist in our society, and it is unfortunately unbearably clear that failure that occurs early sets its tracks for the rest of our lives. Every one of these kids has marks from the failure of the adults, who should have been the guarantor of security, closeness and love. That is why it is so important that they do not also experience an uncoordinated and uncoordinated system that does not take them seriously. After all, the child's reform was originally a political agreement concluded with the 2010 Rate Pool Agreement. It is about those children who need special support from the rest of society and perhaps even a place outside the home. It was a very good step on the way to being on the child's side when it comes to perhaps one of the most difficult social policy tasks. The reform has been followed later by a series of measures which have further strengthened efforts for vulnerable children. That was among other things. the 2013 abuse package and then a supervisory reform to ensure better supervision of the locations, among others. children and adolescents. Unfortunately, as we have already heard, when you look out in reality, there is still a lot of evidence that the good intentions do not really hold water out there. It is quite clear to us in the Social Democratic Party that there is both a task before possible placement, but certainly also a task afterwards, which is not being taken up well enough right now. We simply need to look at the legal base in structural and broader social terms and, as legislators, we need to ensure that those children who have once been abandoned by someone they trusted can, on the other hand, rely on the Community not to let them down. They must be able to have confidence, both in the system and in the people who are going to help them. When you talk to adults who have been placed as children, they typically say two things. First of all, you say that I wish I had been placed earlier. Secondly, they say: I wish that the place where I was first placed was so good that I did not have to be moved many times. That is why it is important that a good social policy also provides stability and security for these children who are being placed. That is why we need to make a number of demands, including for the placement sites, so that it is the most skilled employees who work with those who need it most. There is a need for a clear location of authority responsibility for the municipality to supervise, and there is a need for those foster families who take on huge responsibilities also to receive the help and support they need to succeed. Therefore, on behalf of the following parties: the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, I shall read out the following proposals for adoption. Proposals for adoption •Reform and legislative changes over the last 10 years have basically improved conditions for vulnerable children. The Danish Parliament notes, however, that there are still challenges with the implementation of the Children's Reform and a need for strengthened legislation to ensure professional quality, security and the right effort for placed children in time. The Danish Parliament calls on the Government to work for legislation with training requirements for staff, demand for a permanent home municipality, demand that places of employment should not withdraw profits from the institution, as well as special planning in the field, so as to ensure the appropriate professionalism and specialised services for the target group. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to oblige municipalities to enter into agreements for foster families, including minimum standards for supervision and further education. The government is encouraged to support municipalities in improving management, reducing bureaucracy, ensuring personal supervision is carried out and reducing the number of child cases per year. Caseworker. Parliament calls on the government to resume negotiations on strengthening the social inspectorate in the context of the above. • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135854	Thank you for that and the proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135905	Thank you for that, and congratulations on that fine speech. As far as the text of the adoption is concerned, I think that it is just a little hypocritical when it comes to reopening negotiations on the reform of social oversight, because there was a great desire for us to continue these negotiations. Now the rapporteur was not here, but it is just to say that it was actually the rapporteur's own party that created the room, as it were, that negotiations were not completed. The second point I would like to make is that it is in relation to the attitude of the Social Democrats in relation to the increased use of forced abortions and the increased use of placements, because this is something that has been done by the Social Democrats, so the rapporteur should therefore have a few words to say about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206135958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140000	Thank you. First of all, it is true that I wasn't there, but our main point is that it can't be alone to talk about the Social Protection Agency. There is a fundamental need for us to have a structural look at the legal basis here, and I have also understood that this was why we could not continue these negotiations, and that is still our view, and therefore, as the text of the adoption also says, the call for the resumption of the negotiations must be seen in the context of all the above things I read out, in other words all the other comments we had. Compared to increased use of forced adoption and increased use of placement, it is true that we have the view that we basically place very little in Denmark. There are many bets that you can do in other ways than by a definite placement, but where a placement might in fact have been preferable. There's a lot that shows that if you make those small, gradually adjusting bets, you're actually gonna run the risk of dragging it off and making it worse for the kids. So in many cases we need to be a little faster on the trigger, and that is why our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140124	When the rapporteur says that we are placing too little, does the rapporteur have any evidence of this? In the Danish People's Party it is not about the number, it is about the right children being placed on a well documented and enlightened basis. The second point I would like to make to the rapporteur is that I think the rapporteur's party should have stayed at the negotiating table. We had set aside money to make an agreement in this area, so the rapporteur has to go back to his own party and get an explanation for it. As I understand it, there was at least broad support for us to continue these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140201	Just in relation to the latter, there is, in fact, also our support for providing better conditions for the Social Protection Agency, but it just cannot stand alone. In other words, if we provide good conditions for the Social Inspectorate, they can go out and do better supervision, but if what they are basically looking at is not good enough, that is, if the legal basis for what they have to look at is not good enough and it is our view that it is not so that it doesn't matter with even better social supervision. So we do not think it can be left alone, we have to look at the full package. However, I am happy to take the comments back to my general rapporteur. Yeah, now it blinks, you want me to stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140235	The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140245	Thank you. Congratulations to the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that in general we do not have enough, and that sentence can of course be interpreted in several ways. In the Danish People's Party we are of the opinion that in the best of all worlds we did not put any children at all, and that is because preventive work would like to make it absolutely impossible for us to place children. That is why I am a little concerned that the Social Democrats announce that we are placing too little, because then it sounds as if it is the goal in itself to place more children. Would the rapporteur like to add a few more words to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140313	Yeah, I'd like that. In relation to how many children have challenges and which we see have mental distrust, it is of course the case that placement is one of the last handles one resorts to. And that is praiseworthy enough, for it is a very great intervention in a family's life and in a child's life. Nevertheless, it is sometimes the right thing to do to safeguard the future of children. Several organisations, including: The national social services organization has been out to say that we must be very careful that we do not fall into the trap of going after the Swedish model, slowly stepping up efforts and trying to keep children in a normal life, because in relation to some of these children it is simply an absurdity. And there we are sometimes too slow to resort to what will be the right intervention, simply because we have a little touch. And that's what we want to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140411	Then we solved it. In relation to the text adopted by the Social Democratic Party, it just sounds to me as if it is going to be very, very expensive. And in relation to the number of cases with the social workers, let's just stick it out. It's just sometimes that when we send a bag of money from the Danish Parliament to the municipalities, for example. to reduce the number of cases per year. social worker, then the municipality says: It is really nice that we have now got the number of crowns extra, and of course we spend them on what we have to, but then we just take the same bag of money somewhere else in the same area. And in this way it will be the status quo in relation to the funds. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140454	Well, there are many elements in how a municipal economy is screwed up, and there is no doubt that the municipal economy, seen from our chair, has been much under pressure, not least because it has also been largely undermined by the elements that have been in the financial laws over the past many years. And that puts close welfare under pressure, among other things. This area. So there is no doubt that the economy is under pressure and that this is going to suffer. Having said that, we have actually proposed simply to take some money for it here from the pool funds, and it will be able to finance much of it a long way along the way, among other things. training requirements, etc., which are part of what we propose in the text of the adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140532	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We continue in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206140545	Thank you for the floor and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important debate in the Chamber today. As rapporteur for children and education in the Left, I can say that there is a great deal of my work which goes on to deal with the area of children as well. That is why I am very pleased that we now have the opportunity to discuss, among other things. The child's reform and whether it actually works as intended and what we might be able to do better. I think the child's reform is important, but it rests among other things. I should also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. The child's reform helps to ensure that vulnerable children and young people are given the best possible opportunities to develop both personally and professionally. This is one of the things that I, and hence also the Left, actually think is really, really important. Because we want to give all children the best possible start to life, and we believe that all children also have the right to have a bright future. We think it is right, very important and also necessary that we give priority to this. And perhaps especially the first days of a child's life have a huge significance. That is why we also voted in favour of the Bill on the Children's Reform as far back as 2010. I must be honest and say that it is of course also disappointing when I hear that there are still major challenges in some municipalities in terms of implementing the legislation that we adopted back in 2010. In fact, I think that we all have some sort of responsibility here, in other words, a responsibility to ensure that the legislation is implemented better. I also believe that there are tasks that should be followed up and that, for that matter, we have an obligation to follow things through. I must say that regardless of whether we meet children who are miserable or who, for that matter, are getting very poor and degrading treatment or living in conditions which may damage their health or their development, I am sure that no one in this Chamber is interested in turning a blind eye, but, on the contrary, will try to get what we saw, perhaps from here too, can do even better. Fortunately, it can be said, several important measures have been created in recent years since 2010. And if I could just take out one in my rapporteur's speech, I would say that I very much hope that, among other things, I do. also the agreement we have made with the Danish People's Party in the financial agreement about the first 1,000 days of a child's life, hopefully in a few years we will be helping many of these children positively. So the thing about continuing to focus on also strengthening the interaction between day offers, between family and, for that matter, health care, which is part of that agreement, is one of the things that I believe in the long run, hopefully, brings some positive contaminations. I myself have worked 19 years in a municipality before I became a member of parliament, and I have also worked there with children and young people. I know that when you stand in this Chamber and vote in favour of a legislative proposal, we may be many people who think, as it were, that it will be all right and then they will probably know tomorrow in the municipalities. But I must also be honest and say there, at least on the basis of the experience that I have in this area, that it may well be a while before the legislation, which is adopted here at Christiansborg, actually works and works in reality. I think we should bear that in mind: we must, of course, support and follow up and keep an eye on this, but we must also accept that there is one everyday life out there, where things have to be implemented and, for that matter, also sometimes change culture in order to make the legislative proposals we adopt in this Chamber work out there. We in the Left support the adoption text, which was read by the Danish People's Party, and I have promised to greet the Conservatives and say that they also support the adoption text. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141038	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141044	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech. Now we have talked a little about education, and that is something with which the rapporteur has experience, I think, so allow me to ask whether the rapporteur thinks it is reasonable if there are uneducated, non-competent staff to do something as intrusive as it may be in relation to a section 50 study or a parental competence study. Or does the rapporteur think that we should, of course, be trained in what we sit and work with, including legislation? It's something that's been up a lot. In fact, there has been a citizens' proposal on this, but it has fallen away because not enough signatures were obtained. This is in relation to authorization in this area, i.e. in relation to the approval of social workers. So perhaps the rapporteur of the Left would like to say a few words about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141147	Thank you. I would really like that, because I think that if you are dressed well as a social worker, there is no doubt that you do the best work. It can then be different things that make you feel well dressed. I would say that only a few years of experience in this area will make you more skilled at your work. So time spent in a job can also help to strengthen your skills. But I fully agree that it is incredibly important that the social workers we have to sit in, especially in these areas, are also educated. For that matter, I believe that it is the municipality's task and a management task in the various places to try to make sure that it is some of the talents we have to sit and manage these areas, such as: It is vital that there are also some talented people who are sitting with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141245	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141250	I'm so glad to hear that. Now we heard the Socialist rapporteur stand up on the platform just now and talk about simply placing too little and putting something more. I would actually like to hear the rapporteur of the Left comment on this, because, as Mrs Pernille Bendixen said, the ideal world was prevented, and then you did not, you might say, have any placements, but then the families were assembled. So perhaps the rapporteur will make some comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141325	I have to say that I would really like to link this to what I said in my rapporteur's speech, because I believe that the agreement we have now concluded in connection with the 2019 Financial Act, that is to say, with the first 1,000 days of a child's life, is already where we have to put in, and give a hand-out, after all. through health care, that is to say give a hand and be close to the family and guide and, ultimately, hopefully avoid the need to place. I have to say that the thing about claiming that too few people are being placed, I find it difficult. I would say that in the ideal world, it will be the case for me that, simply because we solve things earlier and better, we will actually have fewer placements.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141411	Mrs. Malou Wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141415	Well, I'd really like to dwell a little on the importance of education, compared to when you're a case worker for these kids. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is very important to be well qualified. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not at least as important that we have a very good and relevant and up-to-date training at the places where we send these children. Is it not just as important afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141443	Yes, I think it is, and I have to say that I have been visiting various places, it has been this way in South Jutland. I would like to say that I have also been with Mrs Karina Adsbøl in an election campaign where we were just visiting foster families, placements, etc. So I think it is important that those who take these children are also well dressed and thoroughly dressed for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141511	Does the rapporteur think that what we are doing for them is sufficient today, or could we do further in the form of, for example, the report? continuing training for, inter alia: In other words, can we ensure that the legislation in this area really brought them a little better? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141525	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141527	I am of the opinion that, of course, there are always things we can do better. I always have the courage to see if there are things that can be raised in quality. But what we have to keep in mind at the same time is that there are also things that cost money. So we also have to find some way of financing it if we wanted to do some additional measures from here. But I am open to the fact that we are also discussing these things, because I actually think it is important that those who receive these children are well dressed and thoroughly dressed for it. I would say that we could also have a long talk about the inclusion situation we have with children with special needs, and there are also some of them that are being put in place, and that may even require extra effort. I think it is important that we keep an eye on such things as this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141615	Mrs Pernille Bendixen in the back row, from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141620	You've been put down here in the back, and you can take note of that. I would like to put a question to the rapporteur of the Left. She says that the social workers just have to be well dressed and then they can make the right decision. That can be right from the outset. The problem is just when they don't listen to the skills that are out there. I think we are experiencing this repeatedly. We have just had a consultation on autism cases, where there is a completely specialized psychologist and says the exact opposite of what the municipality and the social workers claim. And then it's a problem. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141654	Well, I agree with that, and I have to say that unfortunately I did not have the opportunity myself to be present during the conciliation which has just been held about the very thing with children with autism. But I still have to say that we have to follow this. That is actually what the Minister said in his speech. We need to keep an eye on those things, and that is also one of the things that has been set aside for, among other things. the rate pool part, etc.; So I must be honest and say that I never think that we are going to achieve the total goal and can say that now we do not have to keep an eye on it anymore. I think it will be a task that we will continue to have to keep an eye on for that matter, perhaps also make new moves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141734	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141738	I think the rapporteur is right to say that we will probably never be done with that. It's really a little sad. However, we can look back on the child's reform in 2010, and it has been almost 10 years. The minister has listed things. And everything that's been done was happy to hear about. I imagine that there have been ministers before this minister and listed and welcomed it. But you can say that it still lags away, for example. with things like party hearings. We might ask: How much do we have to do before you just start getting the right parties' hearings done? And then Mrs Karina Adsbøl has listed what else is limping. So you get a little worried, even if we want to follow the area and make new moves.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141819	I understand that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is also concerned. I'd like to admit, honestly, that I can be. I think it is quite clear that no further progress has been made. On the other hand, I think it is important to maintain, as I said before, that some of the measures and some of the decisions we have taken here recently can hopefully help to make the child's reform work better out there in the municipalities too. Then I have to say that it may also be a question of us perhaps also being some of us who sit in this Chamber today and sometimes grab some of our council members who are even closer to it and talk about what responsibility they actually have.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141906	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no more brief comments. That's why we're gonna go over to mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206141918	Let's go up the platform a little bit. It is all the low rapporteurs who are on today. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having called this question debate on a rather important subject, which we should focus on constantly. Evicted and placed children must always have our focus, as we know that they are some of the most disadvantaged if we are not helping them as a society. We therefore have a duty to give them the best possible conditions. The child's reform aims to ensure that as many children as possible grow up in a safe and good environment, by strengthening the care area, strengthening children's rights and, at the same time, ensuring their quality. The intentions in this are, in fact, good enough, but unfortunately there are still a whole range of challenges that have certainly not been solved with the child's reform. First of all, I would like to say that it is highly problematic that, according to the latest report by the Workers' Employment Council, 64 500 children are now growing up in poverty due to the government's ceiling on cash benefits and other poverty benefits • 64 500 children who do not have the same opportunities as their classmates and playmates, and whose exposure is so much increased due to poverty. In the Enhedslisten, we fear that some of the families who have been able to cope in the past are under pressure which, unfortunately, can result in more children being placed outside the home. It also seems absurd, to say the least, when a majority in the Folketing with one hand makes children and their families poorer and thus increases the risk of exposure and placements potentially, and with the other hand, as stated in the first line of the text of the agreement on the reform of the child, will ensure that as many children as possible grow up in a safe and good environment. This is so absurd. At the same time, we see how the economy of the municipalities is hard pressed by savings, and this means, as I said earlier, that there are case workers who have up to 60 children's cases on their desks. It is clear, of course, that then the quality will be the same. Therefore, we also continue to experience a high degree of error in the children's cases which are being brought before the Ankestyrelsen. Some of the mistakes could probably have been avoided if there had been enough time for the individual case and the individual child. I'm afraid time is a rather pervasive word when it comes to placements. There are still problems in a number of municipalities with the absence of mandatory child conversations and the failure of children to be given a sitter who can plead the child's case and only the child's case, despite the fact that it is one of the cornerstones of the child's reform to put the child's best interests first. The municipal savings and the huge case piles of the case workers are also reflected in the person-oriented supervision which, with the child's reform, it was decided to extend from once a year to twice a year. I hear from both institutions and parents that, despite the local authority's duty of supervision, the necessary personal oversight is not being carried out everywhere and that, at the same time, the statutory action plans for individual children are not being drawn up. I have tried to get the Minister for Children and Social Affairs to provide an overview of what kind of municipalities are not meeting their obligations, but that has not yet been possible. Is the answer, then, that the municipalities should be penalised financially? No, I don't think so. The answer is to ensure better time for the individual caseworker to step in earlier and catch the problems in the families before they grow too large and a placement may be necessary. Placements for us in Enhedslisten are the last resort and must always be based on the child's best interests. We have therefore also long proposed that an upper limit should be set to the maximum. Twenty-five children's cases per year If we seriously believe that municipal case officers should be able to react in time and ensure the necessary support for families and at the same time comply with the obligations of the municipalities and the law. We have also proposed that more use be made of family housing and that parents should be provided with the necessary tools before placing outside the home may become necessary. In many cases, unfortunately, when personal oversight does not take place, it also increases the importance of social oversight. Thus, in several places right now, social services are the only real supervision with children's stay in places of residence. That is why we also hope that the negotiations for strengthening the Social Protection Agency will soon resume negotiations to ensure the necessary professional quality and safety for children and young people in care. We would also like to see a specialty planning set up in order to identify the necessary competences needed in the individual institutions for children and young people placed in care on the basis of their qualifications. This will be an important counter-move to the trend that we are currently looking at places of residence where the institutions are generally growing and there is a despecialisation of the departments. In addition, we would, of course, like to see the possibility of making profits from places of residence banned. It is simply not legal to be able to shovel money into vulnerable children. As part of the child's reform, it was also wanted that more children should attend family care and fewer in institution. There may be a lot of sense in this, but at the same time it is also crucial that we ensure that foster families have the necessary skills, and therefore minimum standards for supervision and further training for foster families should also be introduced. Finally, I would like to say that there are still a large number of areas where we need to tighten up. We must ensure that the best interests of the child always come first, ensure the necessary time for the case workers before the problems grow too large, and ensure that places of residence and foster families have the necessary skills to care for children and young people in care.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142518	Thank you for a long and thorough speech. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142525	Thank you. One might be tempted to ask: How does love cost, and how does it cost? But I would actually like to ask something quite different, and it is precisely in relation to all the measures that a majority in the Danish Parliament has agreed to take in order to achieve improvements in this area. It is also in relation to the supervision of foster families and all the good measures that we have adopted. After all, they have been agreed in the pool of rates, can one say, so when we are about to legalise it in the context of greater legal certainty for parents and the fact that it has to be authorised psychologists, will Enhedslisten vote against the proposals that come in the Parliamentary Chamber, so for the improvements that will also come when we have to deal with it either in 2020 or 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142620	It is, of course, very gratifying that we have now stopped the transfer of funds to the anti-social pool of rates. We've been fighting for that since before I was born in 1990. And I will look forward to the fact that we are about to finance politics in a fairer way, so that those who have the very least in this society are not taken away.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142641	I'm really glad Enhedslisten is happy with that. But the reason I ask is that Enhedslisten has often been complaining a great deal, but at the same time votes in favour of using the funds that we others have been given for very good action in the Parliamentary Chamber. I just think that sometimes becomes a little too easy if you can put it that way. I also think, if the rapporteur thinks a little, that perhaps it is just as easy that we should first stand and chastise all of us who really do something good, and then we can stand and vote 'yes' in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142723	We always say that, of course, when other parties propose a sensible policy. We also say this when we think that funding is abominable. We do that in every context. For the last 25 years, I have missed the fact that the pool parties have wanted to tell us where they took the money, namely that they took the money that they took, among other things. has been used for social efforts, from those who have the very least in this society, from some of those who are most under pressure. It is good that we are now changing that model, at least in relation to the pensioners. But there should be no doubt that I would, of course, like to commend it when a sensible policy is decided, but I would also like to criticise it when the other parties in the Folketing find foolish and antisocial funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142807	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mrs. Laura Lindahl..., no, it is not. (Maughter Welcome to the esteemed rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206142828	Then I should like to say that, on behalf of our rapporteur in this area, I would like to say that it is almost a condition that we in the Folketing meet a number of cases that tell us that the municipalities are not good enough to implement the legislation we are making in here. In this area, it just has extremely serious consequences, and that is, of course, totally unacceptable. I say this, although I know very well that it is easier to legislate than it is to implement because it is complicated matters that we are dealing with. I also think it is important that we in the Folketing do not run around with the misconception that we can solve all the problems of legislation. If we adopt new legislation every time we encounter a problem, we will easily end up making the situation worse. It is often the case that it takes longer to implement new legislation than you immediately imagine. The Minister has already mentioned this. If you constantly change out the regulatory framework, yes, it will easily end up with a constant semi-implemented dysfunctional law. I think it has to be said in this area that we have created a relatively good legislative basis which can balance the concerns of local self-government. That doesn't mean you have to sit with your hands in your lap. It is always a great task to ensure adequate supervision and a renewed guidance, as we have also heard from the platform here. In this respect, we are particularly pleased that the Finance Act provides for money to reduce the duration of proceedings in the Ankestyrelsen, which is one of the key instruments for monitoring what is happening in the municipalities, also in relation to compliance with procedures that can help to catch up on the problems in time. It is also my impression that there is considerable local attention in this area, only because it is very costly matters in economic terms, but also, of course, because the human consequences are great. I come from the municipality that had to do with these Skælskørgirls, and I have to promise that it was something that shook the town council and that gave publicity. I believe basically, as I have indicated here, that we have legislation that should be sufficient, and it must be obvious that in such complex cases as we are dealing with, it takes time to turn a large organisation to follow the rules of the game in this area. So we're gonna get some ice in here. I also think that the things that the Minister has put forward, which are in the pipeline, make it a case which will probably look better in a year or two. That is why we support the text proposed by the Danish People's Party and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143146	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Malou Lunderød.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143150	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would just like to ask what the rapporteur says about the fact that it takes a long time for legislation to be implemented. There is a large organization that needs to get used to it etc. I come from the municipal system myself, so I kind of understand that. The question is, how long are we going to wait, how long are we going to have ice cream in our stomachs? When may we see that there are some things we need to do about legislation, because it does not work according to intention. I guess you have to have the courage to do that on the part of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143222	It's hard to set a time for how long to wait. However, I believe that in the municipalities there is the view that there are a great many laws coming from in here and that they are constantly being corrected. And that doesn't just apply in this area, it applies in many other areas. Then perhaps I also think that we should be careful sometimes to believe, as I also mentioned, that new rules solve everything. In other words, if we constantly make new rules, it may be that it becomes so complex that it is almost impossible to prevent a case from going to the board of directors and coming back with a procedure that has not been done properly. And that's no good to anyone. It must also be the case that you can use common sense in the municipalities, so that you are not completely covered by procedural rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143303	I would just like to ask one more question for the sake of clarification: does the rapporteur think that the biggest challenge in implementing the child's reform in the municipalities is simply time, or are there other factors involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143313	There are a great many factors involved. Time is one of them. I do not think we should list them all here; there are immensely many factors involved. What is important is that we do not believe that there are only a few factors and strike with the same hammer. Because I think it is actually quite individual what to do in individual cases, and it is very different from municipality to municipality. We have just seen that ten times as many people are forcibly removed in Lolland as in Gladsaxe, and that may have something to do with more people on transfer income in Lolland Municipality than there is in Gladsaxe. It may be an important factor, but there are many others too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143348	Mrs. Trine Torp of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143353	Thank you. One of the things that matters to the quality of the procedure is that there is a certain continuity among the employees who have to deal with these cases, and one of the things that we can see is that there is a great deal of change and that the children and families experience that there are actually often shifts in the case handling staff. I am familiar with the fact that this is, in fact, an area which is quite attractive to social workers as a starting point, but which rarely lasts long. What is the analysis by the Liberal Alliance and the rapporteur of the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143433	I think there's a lot of work pressure in this area. There is a shortage of manpower in many places. There are also nurses missing. Virtually all sectors today are crying out for labour, and if you have the opportunity to jump out of a sector, if you find it very difficult to be in it and the opportunities are there because it is easier as the labour market is today, then I think you are jumping out faster. You don't just stay there to stay there, and there's gonna be a big change.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143509	You could try to solve this problem, because it's actually a problem for these families. If, as a child, you have to change cases once a year, then it is difficult to have confidence that the authorities that make decisive decisions will actually do so on a sound basis. If you had to change that, what would the rapporteur think would make it more attractive to be a family agent?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143536	I think we should be careful to take this discussion very specifically. In general, I think that we should do a great deal to increase the supply of labour, in other words in the form of the reforms that the Liberal Alliance stands for. We need a bigger workforce. Well, if there's any competition for the jobs, it's easier to jump into another sector, like I said before. We need to do more for the total labour supply. That is the general answer. I don't think you can give a specific answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143606	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143610	The rapporteur mentions that there are more places on Lolland than there are in Gladsaxe and that it might be due to poverty. I think there might be a connection in that. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that there is a link, as the rapporteur sees it, between poverty, vulnerability and lower quality of child life.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143639	Now I didn't say it was because of poverty. I said that there was a statistical context if there are a large number of people who get income transfers rather than being in work. So a good social policy effort could also be that more was done for people to get to work. And it also has something to do with the amount of income transfers. It is quite well described that if you have very high income transfers, there is a possibility that people in the social system can be more sustained than they get into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143718	I do not know exactly where the rapporteur has picked up the statistics from that I do not know anything about. But to be absolutely sure, I just have to ask a question: so the Minister, excuse me, not the Minister, but the rapporteur, he is not a minister yet, perhaps one day, does not think that there is any link between poverty, whether you are on transfer income or not, exposure and thus also lower quality of child life, that is, there is a direct link between being a child in a family with little money and so poorer quality of child life and thus also a higher degree of exposure?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143758	I do not think it can be denied that there is a link between the elements mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143804	Then I'll have to thank you very much, sir. Villum Christensen for today's work, and welcome to Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206143820	First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for bringing up this important topic and thank you to Malou Lunderød from the Social Democratic Party for the fine introduction to your speech. I would also just like to bring it up. You have to do so when you agree with someone who you do not always agree with. I actually agree very much with what the Danish People's Party points out. I don't feel good about putting too few kids. I understand very well that this is a very difficult balance, but I am not happy to use it in this context. Then I also think that Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from the Enhedslisten points out something important, namely this with more poor children. It is also a surprise that I, unlike the Danish People's Party, share. This is in relation to the Danish People's Party's politics. I could also imagine that there is some kind of connection, which is also not rejected by the Liberal Alliance, when it comes to the economic conditions under which people are socially exposed and the problems that may arise in a family, as a result of the overall conditions that families have in economic terms too. Now I'm both new here in the Folketing and in this area, and it's such a very complex area of law. It is also a very sensitive area of law. I grew up with foster children in my home. I have been lucky to live at home with my parents, but we had changing foster children in our home. With regard to the complexity, I would also like to mention some of the points that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also made, namely that there is also such a balance in terms of just making more and more legislation. I think it is important that we take it up. There, however, I think that the wording we have in the proposal for adoption, for strengthened legislation rather than more legislation and for debureaucratisation is precisely something we should have in mind. If we also have to monitor it, it is no good that it is becoming more and more complex. So for the area of vulnerable children and placements: some of what I would just like to point out, as we think is important in the alternative, is firstly the personal responsibility for reporting on which I think we should focus, and we need to find out how we can strengthen that area. Secondly, there is municipal responsibility when it is reported and how we act on it, because what I am aware of is that it is actually a problem that people are walking around with a knowledge that is not reported and can go around with it for a long time. This is extremely worrying and extremely problematic for the children of whom you go with a knowledge and where the problems just get worse and worse. I'm thinking that we need to figure out how to secure social workers and other professionals, it could now be who have this knowledge, a safer and better framework to report that you are not walking around with a knowledge and are afraid of what can happen. Because it is such a sensitive area, so there can be all kinds of reasons why you do not report it. So, rather than just coming after these people, we also need to back up the possibilities of reporting: where can we go with this information? And then we must also ensure that in the next step it is taken seriously that there is a place where you are met. That is also the next point. When you report, how do we ensure that the municipalities actually follow up on this? For there are also many examples that, if you do so at last or when it is reported, it can actually land between two chairs or be allowed to sail longer. This is really unfortunate for these children and very problematic, because, as the Minister also says, it makes sense to take action early. That is actually what I hear most of the parties here point out, namely that what makes the most sense is, of course, to take action as early as possible, so that, for example, we do so. avoids placement. But it also requires that we get it reported and get it acted on. By coming in and making some previous bets, we can help, for example. parents out of abuse. It's also about taking care of the problems that are around the child, so you provide some good conditions for the child, which ensures that this family can actually stick together. So that abuse can be overlooked and no help given, there are also examples of not being helped as parents. Finally, because now I see that it is blinking red here I would just like to say that we also agree with this by looking at how the case workers work and their number of cases. And then I will look forward to a further debate, and I hope that in this area too, as in the area of family law, where I experienced enormous goodwill among the parties, we can work together on the best interests of children. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206144413	Thank you, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, and welcome to Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206144422	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for once again raising a question concerning the implementation of the child's reform. It is becoming a cosy tradition and also a very important tradition and even now, under the new framework of the question debate, where we are almost in a circle. So I guess it's not gonna bring anything good with it. After all, this is an area that we in all parties have an interest in following closely, because it is about the help given to children and young people and their families when there is a need to ensure their well-being and development. Vulnerable children and young people and families must have the help they are entitled to and need. They must know their rights, they must be heard and they must be involved, and they must have help that really meets the needs and that is something positive in relation to the child's development and well-being. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. This is certainly not an area that has lacked political focus, and since the deployment reform in 2006, there have also been several reforms in this area which should first and foremost strengthen the quality of the proceedings and interventions and ensure that the child's best interests were taken into account. Focus has, among other things, been on: have been on preventive and multidisciplinary early action, rapid assessment of information on abuse and neglect, thorough child-care examinations, involvement of the child and parents, action plans and follow-up on them, quality and continuity of placements, etc. However, although improvements have been made in the area of children and family, we are not yet in the finish line. There are, for example: still parents who experience that municipalities do not give priority to giving them the support and offers that are needed to strengthen their relationship with their children and their ability to care for them. There are still children and young people who do not feel heard, involved and properly in contact with those authorities who make major decisions for their lives. From the case workers you can hear that the area is over-regulated, that there is not enough time for contact with children and parents, the contact that must help make a difference and give them the basis for decisions on help. Several professionals say that we need to be much better at preventing fires rather than putting them out. hearing that children and young people are not always placed in places that can meet their needs, resulting in shifts and failures. And they tell us that a number of young people must be on their own far too quickly without help for the transition to adulthood. There is no need for spinal cord reactions and simplistic messages to meet these challenges, e.g. implementing multiple placements or setting a target for multiple forced adoptions. The area is simply too complex for that, and the needs of children and the problems of families are too different for that. However, there is a need to strengthen the spaces where work with vulnerable children and young people takes place. The framework and organisation of the work are extremely important. There must be an appropriate range of cases and there must be a professional culture that promotes overall thinking and real involvement of children and parents in order to create the effort that benefits the health, well-being and development of each child. This requires that there are the right competences and that the framework for skills development is there, and all this requires good management, whether in the family department of the social services, in the offers made in the families or at the places of placement. We should also be aware of whether all municipalities have the necessary frameworks and opportunities to help vulnerable children and young people. Some municipalities have a relatively larger share of vulnerable and vulnerable children and a weaker tax base than others. This must not affect children and young people's access to help, but it should also not knock the bottom out of the economy of the municipalities, for example. need to save on day care facilities, schools, etc. The financial burden should be shared more in solidarity on our part. Better involvement and real legal certainty are needed for children and parents. The good solutions are developed together with children, parents and networks, and the best skills development happens if it is close to practice and if there is strong professional leadership in the field. The worst thing we can do is try to control the area with even more procedural requirements, because quality in children's cases is not the same as being able to put flybones in a schedule. A child's examination may be completed in good time, the action plan may be completed and the child's interview may be held without the child or young person receiving the assistance needed and without the child or young person actually feeling involved. The real involvement of children is when you actually listen to the children and let their perspective gain weight. This is not just resolved with several rules changes, but with compliance with the law we have. There is a need for an increase in municipal procedures, because the rules of the Service Act are the legal basis for ensuring that vulnerable children receive the help they need. And we need to demand the right qualifications for the professional staff who work in this area. In order to ensure that the children who are placed also receive the right offer and that the resources used in this area benefit the children, we must at the same time ensure proper conditions for foster families and proper supervision of the places.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145000	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments, so I will move on to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, who is now speaking. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145013	Thank you, President. And thank you for a very good and constructive debate, which has reflected both that there are a number of differences such across the parties, but also that, despite the fact that there are a number of differences, there has been a solid tradition for many years that we have worked together on the location area. That is why I also think it is important to say that the people's regime is far better than its reputation, and this is precisely the area in which it is expressed, at least until now. Because I cannot help noticing the slightly fresh remark that is at the end of the text of the adoption of V 31, which says that it would like to see negotiations on the social inspectorate resumed. And I cannot help but take the words of Mrs Karina Adsbøl and make them my own, namely that it seems a little hypocritical, if you just remember why the negotiations on the Social Protection Agency failed. But first let me remind you why it was a good thing with the 38 million. kr., there was on the table. After all, it was both about ensuring stronger financial supervision and ensuring more muscles, so that you could better control the economy out in the offers where among others. In other words, children and young people who have been placed are, but it was also a question of giving more scope for sanctions in relation to being able to make demands. And then it is clear that during the course of the negotiations a large number of concessions were made, among others. What we have called the smart education requirement. All this ended up being rejected, and I still don't understand why. I understand that it was because we would like to see something more in a direction that I strongly disagree with, which would go beyond professionalism, which would mean despecialisation in the places of placement. This is something that I cannot, in any case, stand for professionally. So the truth is, when we look down on how the negotiations on the Social Protection Agency failed, that it was because there was no agreement to spend the 38 million. kr., which lay on the table, to the good, solid stakes, which I certainly had an experience of which basically was a great support and consensus. And then it's just too bad, and it's shameful that one party was allowed to block it. I hope that this will not be the new norm, that this will be the way in which we will work in the future on social policy, because I think it has been a strength that we have worked together. We have had a very close cooperation on family law. Basically in the bet pool, we have always made the ends meet • we have found each other, found good solutions. Everyone's been able to see themselves in it. That is why it is a new state of affairs, and I attribute it to the fact that we are entering an election campaign. I hope that this is the case, and I hope that this is not what we will see now, namely a fragmented political battlefield where everyone is fighting against everyone and where there is no more agreement to hold their hands together under the placement area. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the government will continue to follow the efforts of the municipalities closely and also continue to focus on supporting the implementation of the major legislative changes that have taken place in this area in recent years, so that they will be able to operate at the extreme. In addition, the government will also continue to work to ensure that municipalities can base their work more on knowledge of impact, so that efforts are improved towards vulnerable children and young people and their families. So thank you for the debate and thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on an important, important area. And thank you for all the rapporteurs' dedicated contributions. And then a peep at the end that the negotiations on the Social Protection Agency could well have landed together if there had been a willingness to do so, but there was not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145431	Thank you. But when you invite people to dance, they may say yes, and someone does, namely Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145439	Yes, I've seen that the minister is good at dancing, among other things. with the President of the Danish Handicap Organisations, but what I would like to hear from the Minister is that we have had this debate today, and we often get inquiries about this area, so is there something that the Minister thinks we should do? Are there any legislative measures? I am thinking precisely of how we ensure consultation between the parties, how we ensure quality in the future, how we ensure that children are heard, all these things. Is there also some new initiatives that the Minister is thinking of would be particularly good in this area precisely to ensure that children and their families get the right effort and help? Of course, I am thinking of something beyond what we have agreed and also beyond the agreements we have just concluded, but beyond that, is there something we need? Is that what the Minister is thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145541	Well, there may be more things to dive into. One of my own concerns is that right now we have a child rights package of 24 million. kr., who's out to work. The money is being set aside and implemented. Therefore, it is not right to make such a follow-up here and now, because there is probably a need for just a little more time for them to get out and work. However, some of what I think we should focus on when discussing the child's reform is the quality of the case management. And some of what you can see as an indicator of the quality of the casework is, of course, among other things. the conversion rates. Therefore, I would like to have a very, very strong focus on the fact that the next time we get data, where we can calculate the conversion rates, we need to see a fall in order for it to be satisfactory. When you just take the children's area, it has been the case that we have seen an increase in recent years, and we have actually come up with the fact that more than half of the decisions that are being submitted to the Ankestyrelsen are being re-examined and re-examined in the municipalities. And if you see that this figure continues to increase, then it must be my opinion to have a discussion with the parties on how to ensure that we continue to improve the quality of procedures in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145705	Yes, it is very frustrating and worrying to see the increases. I referred in my rapporteur's speech to section 71 of the Service Act. 3. It says, of course, that if it is necessary for the health or development of the child or young person, the Committee on Children and Young People may decide, for a certain period or in the future, that you should not have association with your network, and that is why I would like to see the criteria underlying it clarified in relation to health and development. It is a good thing that there is that paragraph, because you must of course be sure that it is in the best interests of the child, but I also see that the application of that paragraph excludes the network and the associates and others from seeing the child. So some balance in it and some background you should like to come along with.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145802	I think it will be very difficult to balance that paragraph in a more appropriate way. What it is expressing today is precisely that the child's best interests are taken as a starting point, since it is on the basis of an individual or concrete assessment that a decision is taken. There may be cases in which when you, as outsiders, read about them, think that it seems strange, it seems wrong that a relationship has been interrupted. However, there may also be cases where there is quite good sense in the fact that association is stopped. That is why the rules must be sufficiently strict and sufficiently precise to be able to take account of the situation of the individual, so that it is not possible for some children to get caught because the rules have been tightened too much either to one side or to the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145905	Mrs. Malou Wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206145910	Thank you. I just think I would come back to the Minister about the negotiations on the Social Protection Agency and just say, for the sake of good order, that the reason why we could not be involved in the negotiations was that what was discussed was simply too narrow. It is our clear view that we need to look more closely at this area of legislation than just to give more money to a social oversight, which can go out and potentially see that there are problems, but where then you can actually do nothing about it afterwards, because the legal basis is not good enough as it is today. And in fact, the Children's Terms have also been out to say that they could also be worried that a solution to this could be a patch solution that could actually block a better and more holistic solution. However, if the Minister is willing to take a broader look at the legal basis of this and some of what we have listed in our adoption text, then we would be very happy to make ourselves available at the negotiating table again.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150012	I do not think that will be necessary, because some of what the Children's Conditions emphasize is, in fact, the importance of there being private people who are precisely able to come in with the expertise to be able to deal with the very diverse needs that children and young people may have. And if one imagines that the municipalities are required to make operational agreements with different institutions, it will be very difficult to see that one will actually go where one chooses according to what is needed. On the contrary, there is a very great risk that you will instead sit in a municipality and say: Well, but we have an operating agreement with this very institution, and that is where we have to fill up and use our seats. And so they do not make a decision for the child's good, and that is exactly what Children's Terms are concerned about. So I just have to say, 38 million. kr. And I had the impression that all the other parties sitting around the negotiating table were ready to agree to make an agreement just not the Social Democratic Party, and I am, of course, very sorry about that. I can hope that this is only about campaigning and that, after an election, we will be able to take up the thread again and ensure that we have good and sensible agreements made for the benefit of the children that this is about. Because precisely the children who are placed here need us to tighten up and strengthen the framework which was precisely in the Social Protection Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150148	Well, I do not necessarily have much more to add than just to repeat that if the Minister is willing to look at the wider, I think we should do so. After all, we agree that there must be better conditions, and we also agree that there must be better social supervision. We are just not thinking that it is enough if we give them some good conditions and then they can go out and say: that was not good enough, but what can we do? We simply need to look more closely at this, and I think that today's debate shows that there is still a great deal to be done about doing so. So we cannot look at individual parts of what we need to look at wider social policy on the overall basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150225	I would have liked the rapporteur to have taken part in the negotiations, because then we would have known that we were spreading it out and, among other things, we would have done so. When we have the report that gives us an insight into what it looks like about tariff structures, we would very much like to discuss it. But I just have to say that if all you wanted was to go in and ban private residences, it won't be with this government. For the private people bring something very special, so that you can take care of the target groups and as a municipality you can choose the place where you can best support the needs of the child. It is both in the Social Protection Agency and also in the personal supervision system, which means that the municipalities have to choose the place where the young person is best ensured.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150311	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150317	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. This has been a good debate. But I'm going to try again to sketch out what I think is problematic. For all that the Minister says has been done since 2010 with the child's reform is true, and most parties have been involved in it, so that is not a criticism. But you have to have it wondering about everything we've been doing in the ten years that we're still standing here and having so much trouble. So somewhere there's gotta be some things that don't work. It certainly does not work for me to see if it is that you have municipalities that still do not live up to legislation that is actually ten years old. What does the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150358	It is true that we have been working precisely for a number of years to strengthen the framework which the municipalities have to fill in when dealing with children and young people who have been placed, for example, for various reasons. I, like the rapporteur from the Left, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, believe that this is an area that is so complex that it can be difficult ever to achieve a goal, and that is why I actually make it quite clear that we are not yet in the end. Because if we were in the finish line, we would not get the kind of inquiries that we are supposed to get. If I have to withdraw such a single thread from the consultation that we had earlier today, when we had the discussion about municipalities that have a threatening approach to their citizens, then there is just one desire that is free here and now for the municipalities to take up, and that is to have good communication with the citizens, show them that they are holding hands under them, handing out, helping, supporting, putting in place the measures necessary to achieve the best possible development, both for the family and at the same time for the child. I would like that as a New Year's wish here for 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150518	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150522	It's a wish we share. But there must also be something in the culture, I think, because it is, after all, very simple to do a party hearing. Well, it's not that hard, and it's still limping out there. It is also not very difficult to listen to other professionals, and this can be included in order to improve the quality of the case, but it still lags behind. So perhaps there is also a bit of a bad culture, in relation to the fact that, as a municipality, you are becoming conflicted and not a broker or a player or the service body you really should be, no matter what we do with legislation and actions in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150602	There is certainly a very important point in ensuring good communication, ensuring that you support and help the family. Because it should not be the case that, as a family, if you have a child with autism, you are worried about whether you can afford to ask for help from the municipality because you are afraid that your child will eventually be forcibly removed. That is why the municipalities have a special obligation to ensure that there is good communication, and I expect them to do so. I have the expectation that they will support and help the families when it is that they need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150634	Thank you very much to the Minister for today's work. And we are now on the second round and we are giving the floor to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. It is also often regarded as an end or an attempt to conclude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206150653	Well, that's a nice hint, President, thank you for that. I'll do that. But I just wanted to read out the last of my speech, which I did not reach, and I just came to the conclusion that we have also had several speakers to draw attention to the major challenges in this area. Then I would like to say that the Association of Legal Security in Families Trivsel has made a case collection on children's studies with a focus on legal certainty and quality, and I would recommend that you read it. I know that Mrs Trine Torp has read it, or at least we have been debating it, you might say, but I would urge you to do so. Then I would say that if you read "Swiss of Children in Denmark" from the Children's Terms and the TrygFonden, it is also worrying reading. For example: Every other child between the ages of 11 and 17 says that they are not taken on board in relation to their location, and some of the things that I did not mention in my speech, and which are also extremely important, are precisely in relation to parents who have children with disabilities or parents who have a disability and who have also approached us about challenges. For example: experience parents with disabilities in the situation that they cannot get the help they need to take care of their parent role. We see, for example. In the area of the bpa area, the citizen-controlled personal assistance is either unable to get access to the scheme or to reduce the number of hours of assistance, and this creates a lot of challenges and concerns for families who cannot get the help in their everyday life that they need just to work. It also makes it very difficult if you do not get the help and support, because it risks hurting the children, and it can eventually end up with information and the start-up of various studies, and that is not fair. Parents who have a child with disabilities also experience great concerns. There were several people who participated in the consultation, but precisely in relation to the Autism Association they really experience that they, one might say, have threats of placement. It is their experience and this issue is extremely important. But having said that, and now I had my speech over and over, I would like to thank you very much for the debate. It's incredibly important that we have a big focus on this area all the time, and when we see and we get inquiries, we also have to respond. Because these are questions about what is happening in relation to the municipal reality, but also what is moving, among other things. for the citizens for whom we work, those who have also chosen us to look after their interests. However, I was also so pleased to hear Mrs Trine Torp's speech, which I thought was very good, particularly in view of the fact that this is not about increasing the use of forced abortions, nor is it about increasing the use of forced labour. It is about ensuring that families take swift and effective action. Then I fully agree with Enhedslisten in focusing on the family in relation to family stays. I myself visited Vibygård there, and I think that what is going on in terms of working with families is excellent. This is incredibly important. I think there are some adjustments that we can discuss. The Social Democratic Party raised the question of whether there should be a great deal of legislation in this area. However, there are some adjustments that we can look at, and I am also thinking of ensuring mandatory consultation of the parties in relation to families who do not feel that they are being heard. Of course they have to be part of the case. As Pernille Bendixen, our child rapporteur, said, it is also about listening to the experts. Precisely when there are medical or psychological statements that show something, it is also a question of listening and respecting each other's professionalism. But in any case, the Danish People's Party would like to thank you very much for the debate. We will continue to do so because, unfortunately, I am not sure that the challenges in this area will be resolved tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206151102	You're welcome. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. As mentioned above, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 11 December 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20181206151120	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 7 December 2018, at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
