ParlaMint-DK_20180116130007	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116130010	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116130021	Thank you. And happy New Year to everyone, allow me to say, although we have come a bit in January, but this is the first question hour of the year that I have been looking forward to, and I hope it will be the first of many where we can have some good and constructive discussions. I myself have just landed from the Baltic, where I visited the Danish soldiers in Estonia and Lithuania, who are now NATO's extreme outpost to the east, and I can say that we should be proud and happy about them, because they take care of us all. And it is Denmark that has been marked by great progress since the elections: unemployment is falling, employment is rising, the Danish economy is strong, and we can be proud of that. The progress is created by a joint effort, both in the Danish Parliament, but above all by all the Danes who each day stand up and contribute to the community. As I said in my New Year's speech, we need to use the progress made to correct the things in our society that are pulled wrong and are not balancing and are therefore working on the community, and one of the places where we need to find a good balance is in the field of foreigners. Since the government has arrived, it has tightened up, among other things. As a result of the great refugee crisis and as a consequence of the many relaxations of the Socialist Government. Together with our efforts in the European Union, our policy has helped to ensure that the number of asylum seekers is now the lowest in nine years' time for nine years. This is positive, and the government wants to continue along the same lines. But our aim is not only to pursue a tough immigration policy, Denmark must also pursue a wise immigration policy, where we shut off those that we find difficult to integrate, but are open to those that we urgently need, foreign talents and others who enrich Denmark and contribute to the community. That is why we want to implement more initiatives that contribute to that balance, and today, quite specifically, we are proposing as a prelude to negotiations which will begin on Thursday, fundamental changes to the rules governing the reunification of spouses. As it is now, it is primarily the overall association with Denmark that determines whether you can get your foreign spouse to the country. This is a rule which means that too many Danes, such as the United Kingdom, have to pay the price. working abroad for a period of time • Maybe you are posted for one of our big companies that makes us proud and who draws money to Denmark • Find love out there, risk not being able to take their spouse home to Denmark, among other things. After all, the Court of Human Rights has overruled the Danish 26-year rule. That is not fair, and here the balance tips, and that is why the government wants to introduce a new requirement, in which we place integration at the centre instead of association. 'Cause let's be honest. That's what this is all about. We will make it harder to get a spouse to the country, who has little opportunity to learn the language, to get a job and contribute to the community, but in return it must be easier for spouses whose culture and values are more similar to ours to come to Denmark. So it must be easier for a Dane to find love abroad and then take the spouse home to Denmark. We think this is a proper balance, and I would like to express the hope here at the beginning of Question Time that we can find a broad majority in the Folketing behind a new course here. Because when we find the right balances, we strengthen both the community and the progress, and that is what is our task, namely to take care of both, if we want to take good care of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116130418	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now we move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time; then there are two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116130439	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we in the Social Democratic Party are starting a new year with a desire and a hope that we will be able to rediscover the broad cooperation here in Christiansborg. I hope, of course, that this ambition is also shared by the Prime Minister of the country, but, unfortunately, with one of the first interviews given this year, I can already come into question. I am surprised that the Prime Minister is starting the political year by evading those parties which, on long stretches, should otherwise be the backbone of what must be sustainable political solutions. The Prime Minister wrote a chronicle in Berlingske Tidende last week, and in that chronicle it appears that a majority outside the government apparently harms Denmark. "Damage Denmark is a very, very violent word. The majority to which the Prime Minister refers is the Danish People's Party, it is the SF, and it is the Social Democratic Party. The fact that we are harming Denmark is such an indictment that, of course, I do not want it sitting on me as chairman of the Social Democratic Party. What we are discussing is that we in the Danish Parliament, bypassing the government, have adopted, in our view, a perfectly reasonable limit on what foreign workers outside the European Union can get to Denmark and work. We set a limit of 418,000 kroner. a year because, of course, we do not want unskilled and skilled workers from Bangladesh or India to come to Denmark, but that companies should have the opportunity to have highly specialised labour. Of course, the need to attract the highly specialised workforce must be met. But it can also be done with the limit we have adopted here in the Folketing. As a Social Democrat, of course, I think that what we should do in Denmark is to bet on our own Danish employees. We have so many unskilled people who could be skilled. The government's response is to cut back on their education. If we cannot fill all jobs in Denmark with Danish employees, and I think we can go much further than we are today, then there is a whole European labour market that can be tackled instead. There are about 20 million unemployed Europeans. But the government chooses to have a very one-sided focus on making it easier for companies to recruit workers outside the EU, for example in the Third World. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: what kind of jobs can Danish employees today fail to perform that could not be carried out by European labour? What are the jobs that the government wants to recruit workers for outside the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116130726	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116130731	Thank you. We do not have a complete glance at the fact that the solution of all things is a foreign labour force. On the contrary, we have put forward an economic policy in which we have identified five tracks that will lead to the overall supply of labour that we need if we are to ensure that the recovery that we have created preserves flight altitude and flight length. That's one of them. Therefore, that the government has insisted on discussing tax in order to ease the tax burden at the bottom of the income scale, so that some of the Danes who stand on the edge of the labour market are given a stronger incentive to step over the edge. We have succeeded far along the way with the ceiling on cash aid and the benefits of integration, which, unfortunately, the Social Democratic Party is opposed to, in dragging in thousands of cash aid recipients. We would also like this positive element to be included. However, it is clear that foreign labour is also part of it, and it is true that we were opposed to the change in the policy that Mrs Mette Frederiksen himself led to implement when, together with Mrs Frederiksen, we agreed the current income limits. We think 418,000 kroner. is too high and so you can wrap that up in people from Bangladesh, but that is not what this is all about. It's about people from, for example. Ukraine, which to a large extent works in Denmark and without which our agricultural sector, our horticulture and a part of our services could not work. It is about people from New Zealand, the United States and Australia, and that is what is the basis for us to think that when you set the limit up to 417,000 kroner. or 418,000 kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116130917	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116130920	Now it is in many ways much easier to put the pen to the paper or fingers to the keyboard than to say things in the Assembly Hall. I assume that if today the Prime Minister does not repeat that the policy pursued by a majority of the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the SF, is harmful to Denmark, it is because the Prime Minister no longer thinks so. Otherwise, I think the Prime Minister should say this today, because I do not want it sitting on me, that is what it is. Let us be a little specific, because the Prime Minister often speaks in headlines about flying height and flight length and all sorts of other things. How far is that limit going down? I understand that the Minister for Finance is proposing a limit of DKK 100,000. below the level we know today, which means 318,000 kroner. This will mean that there must be very, very easy access for ordinary skilled workers to the Danish labour market. Is that where the border is supposed to be? If it is not there, then we cannot get a concrete example, because when we are concerned that there should be a limit on the amount, it is because we want a well-functioning Danish labour market. I know that we have always had the discussion with the Left on this, because I remember that even when we had unemployment and I myself was Minister for Employment, the Left also proposed lowering the limit of the amount, probably because it is more concerned with recruiting foreign labour than with solving the problems that are on the Danish labour market. How far must the border be down, and will the Prime Minister repeat here today that the policy we are pursuing, among other things. together with the Danish People's Party, is harmful to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131041	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131042	Thank you. Foreign labour is not the whole solution. There are several things that need to be done to ensure that the recovery we are inside does not flatten. This is among other things. This is why this government has done what the previous government has never succeeded in doing, namely to make tripartite agreements for tripartite agreements aimed at ensuring that there are more work placements in the labour market, that we train the labour force, that we get the foreign labour force or foreigners already in Denmark more into the labour market than has been done before. To be very specific on the question that was asked, I would say that we were opposed to making the increase in the income limit from DKK 375 000. $400,000. If the mood were to do so, and unfortunately it is not, because the government was surrounded by a majority that just raised the limit, then we would much rather enter into a nuanced discussion about whether these limits should be the same for everyone, because I fully recognise that this cannot be a one-eyed view that we need labour. People are also free when they are not at work, and there we have a consideration to take to what kind of people we let in not just that they can do their job, but that they can, so to speak, also take their free time in accordance with Danish values. There I myself went to the polls on a point of view that we should try to nuance this, so that we, for example, should. had differentiated income limits depending on where people came from.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131219	Then the speaking time has been exceeded. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131221	This must mean that it can go even further down than the 375 000, and then this covers a real political disagreement about what kind of a labour market it is, what kind of a society we want. We want to help recruit international labour, but it must be the highly specialised, it must not be a back door to unfair competition with Danish employees. This is a political disagreement. I must also note that the Prime Minister does not actually have the courage and heart to repeat what is written in a newspaper, and then chooses to take it as an expression that it may be too easy to write that others are harming Denmark and that what it is really covering up is an ideological, fundamental disagreement about what it is for a labour market, what it is for the protection of Danish employees we need and, in the long term, what it is for a country we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131311	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131313	Not at all. And it is wrong when you conclude from what I say that it means that then the income limit can just get lower. Yes, it can. It can also get higher, because that is what was supposed to happen, which is sabotaged by the fact that a majority around the government just raised the border. I would much rather, if Mrs Mette Frederiksen were open to this, discuss whether we should not have both higher and lower limits. I can easily spot people who could come to Denmark and earn 418,000 kroner, and whom for other reasons I did not want to come, not because they could not do their job, but because in their spare time they live life in a way that is not in accordance with Danish values. That is the kind of nuance we would like to have in the debate. It is closed off at the rounding-up of the government which took place, where, moreover, it has also been wrapped in a lot of bureaucracy which makes the arrangements difficult to use. And yes, it is harmful to Denmark if there is a policy in which we do not take care of the recovery. It is harmful for Denmark if we do not use good times to ensure that they can continue through e.g. to make targeted tax cuts that ensure that people on the edge of the labour market enter, by opting out of Danish politics and not going into the necessary reforms to ensure that good times last.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131430	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131437	Thank you for that, President, and thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. The sharp observer of Danish politics has discovered that in recent weeks and months there have been negotiations both on tax and on foreign policy. Now we're in a situation where we're looking at each other a little bit, etc. and to see how it can all land. After all, we are hoping for some good results. I would just like to say, in relation to the tax part, that if the government had been prepared to do so, we would have had tax reliefs a long time ago. After all, the Prime Minister and the members of the government have said countless times over the last week that the government has now been prevented from giving tax relief to people with low incomes. I would just like to say that if it were only a matter of tax cuts for people with low incomes, we would have had tax cuts a long time ago. The problem lies in the fact that, in order to give tax relief to people on low incomes, the government also wants to provide tax relief and also more tax relief to people on higher incomes. That is why it has been quite complicated and difficult to get into place. Let me just say this because it has been mentioned today that this was all about giving tax relief to people with low incomes. If so, it was actually quite simple and quick to achieve a result. So to my question, which concerns the issue of foreign policy and family reunification. After all, we have put forward a proposal to extend the period, to postpone the time when, for example, we are going to have to postpone the period. acids that have come to Denmark in 2015 can seek family reunification. We have been told that we cannot raise the limit, which is now 3 years old, from the time of arrival and asylum to the time of family reunification for these people to a higher number of years. There we encounter because of international conventions, the government says, on account. My question is therefore: in Germany they are currently having government negotiations and they are discussing setting a ceiling on how many family reunifications they will accept per year. years. They are talking about a figure called 12,000 a year... so quickly converted to Danish conditions it is perhaps less than 1,000 in Denmark per year. Years, 830, I think that's more accurate. If Germany finds the way to make such a limitation on the family reunification right in Germany, then the Prime Minister will be prepared to do the same in Denmark and also to set such a ceiling on how many families can be brought together to Denmark per year. Years?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131653	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131656	Don't let me say a few things. Firstly, I have the point of view that I think we share, and which we also tried to explore together in December, where we did not achieve our goal, and we must find an opportunity to resume this during the spring • that if you come to Denmark and get temporary protection, it must be temporary and when the conditions on which asylum has been granted are no longer present, you have to return. That is my point of view. It is also in this light that the government extended the deadline for applying for family reunification from 0 to 1 year initially under the previous government, and then further to 3 years. That's one thing. The second point is that I think it is important, for quite other reasons, that Denmark respects international conventions. It is not the same as not being prepared to try to push their interpretation, but basically I think it is in the interests of a small country that there is a set of international rules. I have looked very carefully into a very preliminary political basis from some negotiations in Germany which have not yet been consolidated, and I am following this very closely, because if there is a legal way forward which some in Germany can find and which we have not yet found in Denmark, it must of course be taken into account in our deliberations. So it is my answer here that it makes sense that we have extended the family reunification deadline, given that there is a situation that I hope will change for the better. If there is a prospect that it will soon change for the better, there is also evidence to ask whether we should further promote integration in Denmark. No, I'm sure we won't. That's one. The second is that we must respect some international rules of the game, and that is the field we are exploring. I know that the President has stood up and that is why I should just like to conclude by saying that I myself believe that the negotiations we held in December were not achieved, they were not completed, they were not concluded and there is a space that I think we should continue to explore together.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131917	It's sharp. I'm just trying to make sure everyone keeps to the speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116131922	I am very pleased that there is a space that we must continue to explore together, and there must also be a lot of results. That is also in the spirit that I am standing here saying: is there a way through? If a country like Germany, in other words a large country just south of the Danish-German border, which is, after all, part of the same conventions as we are, it is primarily the European Convention on Human Rights; this is about the idea that they have found a way through, and believe that they are legally on the right track, and then they are implementing such an initiative, then it is just important for me to get a hand in the fact that we can do the same, it must be the least, and if nothing else we must join the fight with the Germans in relation to it. What's this about? For example, in relation to some of the Syrians who migrated on the motorways back there in 2015 and who in 2018 will be entitled to family reunification in Denmark, we want to give them the message that they must be brought together in their home areas, home areas, where we help them back and where they can be united with their family, and therefore not by getting their family to Denmark for a lasting stay in Denmark. If you set a limit of 12,000 a year in Germany, i.e. less than 1,000 in Denmark, and you think that you have the law on your side to do so... that's what I'm really after... the Prime Minister agrees with me that we should also do the same in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132042	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132044	If Germany can find a way forward here, where we have not been able to find it, then at least they have some lawyers other than those we have, and I cannot deal with a preliminary political paper. I've been tracking myself for my own good, and in these days I'm looking for a closer look at what's hiding behind this. Because I have the point of view I have expressed before, and I stand by that, and it is important to say, if there is room for the nuance of the debate, that there are several things we need to do at the same time. We must ensure control over immigration, and we do. We have together tightened up, which means that we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers for nine years. We've tightened the family reunification rules. Today we have presented a proposal which further tightens the family reunification rules, the rules of marriage, in relation to some, while at the same time being accommodating to the problem we have had with Danes who have been affected by the rules we have had. That is my point of view. Then it must go hand in hand with what I think is a fundamentally important value, namely that Denmark, as a small open society, respects international rules of play.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132152	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132154	When I take this up as something very special and serious, it is because it is thousands of people we are talking about here over the next few years. A great many people are likely to be able to apply for family reunification under the current rules. We have tried to change things in the negotiations we have had, but we have been told that we cannot do so because of international conventions. There is an opening from the German side, as it is written in the preliminary paper from a government coalition in Germany, that you want to set a ceiling on how many people can be brought together by this group, we are talking about these who have this subsidiary protection requirement, which is also Paragraph 7 of the Aliens Act. 3, I think, in Denmark, which we have had the opportunity to go through sometimes together. It is true that Germany has some other lawyers than we do. That's true. But they are bound by the same conventions. And that is why it is so important for me to know that if Germany finds a way that they consider to be legally viable in relation to the same conventions on which we are bound, then that is something. If we agree that we should really do this, that we should really change these rules as to when we can be brought together in Denmark, but that we cannot go further along the path we have in Denmark today, because there we run into law, and if a large country south of the border shows another way under the same international conventions on which we are bound, then we should also go that way. In any case, I would very much urge the government to take steps to find a way forward so that we can move forward, including in the negotiations that we have together.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132321	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132323	Can't I say two things? First of all, I do not believe that our options have been exhausted. Now there was the process that took place in December, and I myself chose last week, I think it was to conclude that it seems inappropriate that it should continue in parallel, that is, with a clue about tax and a clue about foreign policy that is tied up and is each other's mutual prerequisites. 'Cause it's kind of risky to just mean that none of the tracks lead anywhere. But that does not mean that there is no way forward. I believe that there are several options, and I would like to return to that at an appropriate time and place, so that we can adjust further, based on the rules we have, with the aim that is mine, namely that temporary temporary. That's one thing. The second point I would like to make is a little more factual. The picture that later in this spring we're gonna have an explosion of family reunions as a result of this three-year rule, I don't recognize it. I don't recognize that. Because you just have to say quite quietly that the three-year rule applies to those who are now categorized under § 7 para. 3 and not for those under § 7 para. 1 and 7 para. 2. And if you go in and look at the group under section 7 paragraph. 3, there are many women and there are many children, and there are also many who already have a family relationship with some asylum seekers or refugees who have been granted refugee status under some of the other paragraphs. President Yes, please! ) So the picture that it explodes between our hands later this spring, I don't recognize.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132457	Thank you. The question is closed. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132503	Thank you. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the handling of the so-called Paposhvili ruling by the European Court of Human Rights by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. This is a matter which is quite serious. It is about very sick people who have been sent from Denmark to their country of origin without the certainty that they have had real access to vital medicines. This has happened for more than a year after there has been a decision by the European Court of Human Rights, the so-called Paposhvili case of December 2016, which has established that that practice was unlawful. We are therefore in a situation where, as early as 5 January 2017, a note was prepared in the Foreigners' Agency on the verdict. However, that note has never passed on to the Department of Foreign Affairs and Integration, which is otherwise responsible for humanitarian residence permits. And on March 3, 2017, an email will be sent to the Ministry of Integration from the Ministry of Justice, which will draw attention to the judgment of the Court of Human Rights. And exactly the same happens on April 25, 2017, when Dagbladet Information has the Paposhvility and its implications for government policy on the front page of the newspaper. Nothing is still happening in the Ministry of Integration. So when I look at this case, I cannot help wondering whether the Minister for Integration has simply ignored the judgment, because the government is not happy with the substance of the judgment and the consequences of the judgment, but has just continued to expel and send seriously ill people. It is clear that I find it difficult to accept it if a minister in the Prime Minister's Government is able to act so cynically, so I would just ask the Prime Minister to deny that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132706	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132708	But it has already been denied by the answer I gave earlier to Mr Van der Klaauw. Kristian Thulesen Dahl at a different angle on the foreign debate, namely that I have the basic view that Denmark respects Denmark's international obligations. And within that framework, we then want to pursue a tough and firm immigration policy, which means that we have things under control. That's the government's point of departure. Moreover, I am not in a position to go into the specific case as such. I am aware of the fact that the Minister for Integration has, in consultation, explained this matter and has also openly recognised the procedural errors which have occurred in the case and arranged for it to be corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132808	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132810	I am pleased to hear that the Prime Minister says it is important for the government to comply with international conventions. At the same time, however, it is important that the judgments which come from the European Court of Human Rights, for example, should actually be followed. If you look at the consultation last week, it was said from the Minister for Integration that there has been a mishandling of the matter and that it was due to the officials of the Minister for Integration. The matter had simply been dealt with at professional level, the Minister said. At the same time, however, there was the situation in which the Minister said at the hearing that she was actually personally aware of the judgment as early as April 2017 due to a press call that Information would write a story in which several lawyers criticised the lack of follow-up to the judgment in practice. If we look at what the Minister has done in relation to the Folketing, we can see that on 19 October there are four answers to the Folketing, which is provisional, with the Minister as the sender, who relates to the judgment. But the procedure is not suspended, despite the ruling of the Court of Human Rights, which must have been known at that time. Therefore, I would just like to hear the Prime Minister: when the Prime Minister now says that the government will comply with international conventions, does the Prime Minister think that the Minister for Integration has fulfilled his responsibilities by acting passively for as long as has unfortunately been the case in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132945	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116132947	It is obvious that when the Minister has regretted the mistakes that have been made and is now making sure that they are corrected, we have not delivered as a system as we should have done. That kind of mistake can be made. That is why it is now being corrected. And then I have little more to add in this matter, because I do not have the conditions to go deeper into it either. If questions remain unanswered, they must be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133018	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133019	Thank you. Then I would just like to ask the Prime Minister very briefly here in the end whether the Prime Minister will give a guarantee here that future judgments of the European Court of Human Rights will be implemented and followed by government ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133037	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133039	That is not a new point of view. That is, of course, the value which I have now had the opportunity to reiterate in several answers here today, namely that for a small country like Denmark in a large world it is an advantage that there are internationally agreed rules of play, because the alternative is that it is the big ones who decide. And that also applies, even though there may occasionally be some rule of play that one would rather be different. I think that is a basic value which it is in Danish interest to stand guard over. This is also the way the government manages its political work. It is not the same as just lying down without discussion or without argument. On the contrary, in this year we hold the Presidency of the Council of Europe and use, among other things, the Presidency of the Council of Europe. It is a question of raising a European debate on what could be called the very dynamic interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights, which has developed over a number of years. But basically, this country has to be a country that is characterised by the fact that in one and the same way it complies with its international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133154	Thank you. And then it's sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133202	My two questions will start with the public service and the media talks that we are about to start with. And a number of statements have already been made by a number of parties about what we would like to see happening in this area. And what surprises me, in fact, is that it looks as if a consensus has been established that Denmark's Radio should be cut. So, the Danish People's Party has been out saying that it needs to be cut 25%. Others have said: Ah, it's a little too much; it needs to be cut 15%. Others say 8 per cent again, and so it is about how much has to be cut, without having a discussion about what it is that needs to be cut if it is to be cut. What is Denmark's Radio producing less of? What role will Denmark's Radio have in the future if you go in and cut? So it seems as if it has become an ambition in itself to cut Denmark's Radio, and I am very surprised that this is the way to open the negotiations. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is this: does the Prime Minister, who is also the minister of the press, want to cut Denmark's Radio? And if that is an ambition, what is Denmark's Radio going to produce less? What are the consequences for the Danish population if you want to downgrade Denmark's Radio?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133331	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133334	Thank you for the question. Perhaps it is just a post office too soon, because negotiations on a new media settlement have not started and the government has not yet played out. We will do that later in the spring, so I shall not anticipate that. But it is clear that some of the government's starting points are to ensure that there is media diversity. And next to a discussion about what needs to be cut, there is also a discussion about who is producing. Well, you can have a Danish Radio, although for example. self-production is adjusted downwards to create a larger market and more competition and more openness about who is to produce for the public service obligation. The government wants to have a discussion about that, i.e. perhaps getting a more focused Danish Radio.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133425	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133426	It is quite true that the negotiations have not yet started and that we have not seen the action of the government either, but the media rapporteurs from a number of parties have been out of their position, and the alternative is coming, and I expect it to be this afternoon, but the reports are coming. They also come from the Prime Minister's own party, where you have gone in and said that whether it is 10, 20 or 30 per cent that will be cut on Denmark's Radio is not what is the question, but one goes into the premise, one can say, and I am surprised that one goes in and discusses the importance and role of Denmark's Radio in Danish society by taking the starting point of cutting. My second question is that the picture we see in Denmark is not a unique Danish picture. It is currently seen that public service around the world on the one hand is under pressure in relation to fake news and political interests and on the other hand by some very, very large global players such as Google and Facebook and YouTube. That is why I am sincerely surprised that the discussion is not about how we strengthen public service at a time when such an important democratic institution is under pressure from several sides. What is the Prime Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133549	I have full respect for the fact that sir... Uffe Elbæk has decided that the alternative will then present the alternative's media project this afternoon. The government does not do so with its initiative, it does so later, and I do not want to anticipate that here, because I think it is much better in its entirety. May I not say about the public service that now it is not the case that you can just say that because things have been sent out via a DR channel or paid through the license, it hits bull's eye what we understand by the public service. That's one of them. the debate that we need, and I am not the only one who has asked for it; I have, among other things, asked for it. I have recently noted that the Group Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, through a completely different media, has tried to raise a debate on how, for example, we are going to be able to do so. political journalism has been organized. So there is no good debate about: what is the public service? to put it through. Because I agree that we must safeguard this and that we must do this, not least in the international media image where we come under pressure. There should also be a discussion about how best to live it out? Is it all best lived through its own production in Denmark's Radio? Or is it really the case that we could go further along that path by having a freer, and not misunderstand the word, but a freer competition for what is to be delivered to, for example. the media platform or other platforms?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133711	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133713	So you can choose to interpret the PM's announcement here as positive for Danmarks Radio, that is to say that you want to stand up for public service, and also that you see Denmark's Radio playing a completely crucial democratic role in the society of which we are a part. However, I sincerely believe that what is happening at the moment in this area is deeply worrying, because there has been almost a consensus that the starting point is that Denmark's Radio should be cut without having discussed what the consequences of the percentages that the parties will bring are. The last question is from Members and is about biodiversity. Denmark, together with 192 other countries, signed both in 2001 and by 2010, that it wants to ensure biodiversity and that it does not deteriorate. And you've set yourself a deadline called 2020. Last year the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the WWF went through these figures, and you could see that there really was room for improvement. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister is: what initiatives will the government take to comply with the deadline that Denmark itself has been involved in setting?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133829	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133831	Thank you. Well, that's one of them. based on such considerations that the government back in 2016 with a majority of my own party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party made a natural package, after which, I believe, 350 million will be invested. kr. In nature, among other things. with 10,000 ha of untouched forest and with 3,300 ha of what is called the second biodiversity forest. That means 20 per cent. of the state's forests will have biodiversity as their main objective, not forestry, but biodiversity, to mention just one thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133923	Thank you. Then there's another one for Question Time. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116133931	Happy New Year to the PM, too. Foreign policy has already filled a lot and did so in the Prime Minister's introduction and in several of the questions. This is something which often shares the Folketing and which, in a way, the debate is also, at least in the way it is often conducted, suitable for sharing the population. I think people sometimes get off a little when we discuss; that they think it will be too much argument for the sake of argument and too much policy of symbolism, and that it is too far away from the real world. That is why I was happy last Friday when I read a speech from the Prime Minister, where he among other things. It was too unmanageable when it was all about a policy of aliens either being tighter or relaxing. In fact, I agree with that, and I therefore thought that instead of always standing in the Chamber and pulling out the differences, perhaps it was right to try to reach out to what one might agree on and perhaps let reason give a little more advice and the policy of symbols go a little further into the background. It is clear that if you have a temporary residence permit in Denmark, it follows in some way from the word that then that residence permit is temporary and may lapse. We'll probably get the Language Board on our backs if we interpret it differently. But the Prime Minister also said in his introductory statement here that integration must now be central. I think much has been done, not least from many companies and many citizens in Denmark, to help the refugees who have come to Denmark to work and to make integration better for the group of refugees who have arrived in recent years than for those who have arrived in previous years. I know that has also been the government's efforts with tripartite agreements and other things, and it has also gone better. But what I would like to explore today is whether the Prime Minister can understand if there are some of the employers who think that they have taken responsibility with a tripartite agreement, have opened their doors and maybe took a little extra trouble, it is taking a new employee who may need a little more training because they do not know the language, or in other ways have some special conditions that do not really understand the fact that when it finally works and they have hired the employee, they cannot count on that employee also being there tomorrow or next week, because it is not really about putting integration at the centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134154	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134156	No, I don't understand. Because there has to be the balance in that temporary is temporary. Sir. Morten Østergaard also said so himself: otherwise we will have the Language Board on our backs. And we may get that, because one just has to say that if one looks at history, it has been too much the case that asylum was granted in Denmark, it ended up being a permanent situation, and I do not think that is the right thing to do for a set of reasons. Let's take the moral one. Some of our best boys and girls we have sent out into the world with our lives trying to fight for peace and freedom. This is among other things. what is happening in Iraq at the moment. We owe it to them too that when people who have fled have an opportunity to return, they will return. It's also about the country you've escaped from. We also owe it to the country that the people we have given shelter and given competences and hopefully also a love for Denmark that can be used for something when they return home, so that they can maintain a relationship, maybe they can even build bridges to Danish exports, or what do I know then return home and build their country. Well, that is what should be the clear, clear starting point. And it can go hand in hand with us treating people properly while they're here. It can also go hand in hand with the fact that we have an open labour market and you can get a work permit in Denmark if you have some skills or a specific job on hand, where we were the discussion that I had with Mrs Mette Frederiksen has overall assessed here in Denmark that we let people in. For this is a work permit which applies for as long as we need that labour. That's the nuance I think is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134351	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134355	I am not so impressed by the Prime Minister's ability to put himself in the shoes of companies and colleagues. Right now there are many, not least in West Jutland, who are deeply upset about what is meant by all the talk about putting integration at the centre, all the Prime Minister's fine words about those who can and will, and about thanks to those who contribute that you should keep doing so when they see that it is actually the case that those they have taken into their working community, those they have learned with a little extra difficulty, they cannot count on. If you had taken any other European, the company would have been better off today because, at the Prime Minister's request, something has actually been done for the sake of society that you cannot continue with anyway. I was in Hanstholm on Friday and have a greeting to you from Brian Andersen, because I promised he could ask you a question, and he feels ridiculous. He has received Thisted Municipality's integration prize for his work on integrating refugees, and he just says that he feels ridiculous about the effort he is making at the request of you to make an effort for refugees when he cannot count on that labor to keep cutting fish up at the port of Hanstholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134504	Three times you were said to the Prime Minister, and you do not do so here in the Assembly Hall. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134510	Well, nobody has to feel ridiculous at all. There are different ways of obtaining a stay in Denmark. You can get a stay if you're persecuted. Then you get asylum status. It is a temporary thing that falls away if the conditions from which you have fled change for the better. And so it should be. Then there are other ways to get to Denmark, for example. If you have qualifications or you make up the workforce that is lacking, in relation to some thresholds, which we then have a discussion about where to lie. And that also applies to the people who have entered Denmark on an asylum basis, but have been here and built up some competences and can do something that allows them to contest such a job. It has to be this way. Because if we do not hold on to it, it is going on, and we cannot have a system where everyone who comes to Denmark because they need shelter because of a disaster or a war, for that reason alone is ensured that they can stay in Denmark forever. That is not acceptable, because then we will gamble with popular support for a balanced foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134628	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134631	No one has that point of view. The view that confronts you if you want to go out to the companies that have actually taken responsibility is that if they are to help reduce the costs it has when we are to protect refugees who come to us, namely the costs that are, by the refugees not supporting themselves, but instead having to live on public aid, and if they are to invest their energies in it and put integration at the centre, to use the Prime Minister's own words, they must also be able to count on it. Then they must be given a signal that it is not smarter on their part to hire any other European that they know they can keep as long as they should be. The question is therefore whether the Prime Minister thinks that it is about putting integration at the centre, whether it is about Denmark being open to those who can and will, whether it is really about those who do well and take Denmark to heart, as the Prime Minister said in the New Year's speech, should continue to do. For right now we are gambling with the support of companies for that integration effort, because it is wonderfully wasted power unless there are some new signals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134737	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134738	I do not agree with that at all. I do not agree with that at all, and I really think it is a little weird when Mr. Morten Østergaard gets up and starts by commending me for an article that Mrs Mette Frederiksen reproached me for, and highlights it with the nuances and balances and then goes completely one-eyed into this. I refuse to believe that there is no such nuance in the Danish business community that we need more things at the same time. It may be that only one man will speak for it, but we have to do more at one and the same time. We must ensure that Denmark gives room to people who have been persecuted. We need popular support for this. We shall then lose it if any person who comes to Denmark because they are persecuted acquires the right to remain in Denmark permanently, even if the situation in their own country changes. Then we must make sure that we have a labour market, and that is why we have to speak limits, for my sake like differentiated, so that we also take into account what people do in their spare time. That is the balance and nuance we need. Then I also think that Danish industry will have an interest in people who have been in Denmark for a number of years, because they have fled from a place where you could not be, returning home more competently with good memories of Denmark, with good relations. The story is rich in examples • Go to Korea, for example. I mean, I believe that the Danish business community can also hold this nuance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134918	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard and the Prime Minister. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116134924	In spring 2016, the then Minister for Integration, Inger Nøjberg, visited SF's national meeting. Here we discussed SF's proposal for a fight with parallel societies and ghettos, and the Minister said already then that work was being done on a high-pressure project on that very area by the government, and that it was right on the stairs. I know that a lot has happened since then when the pure Left Government has turned into a three-party government, and the waves may also have gone a little high in the government sometimes, but the minister responsible for the area is still called Inger Løjberg, and we are still waiting in excitement for the government's initiative. In fact, I share many of the Prime Minister's views in this area, including much of what was mentioned in the New Year's speech, and efforts to ensure a society of freedom and equal opportunities for all can, in my view, only go too slowly. It seems to me that this is about all of us helping to solve the integration task and not just leaving it to the citizens who already have their fights in their residential areas. The problems of parallel societies are real. There are strained residential areas in Denmark where growing up as a child is no longer great because you do not have the same opportunities as other children. This is precisely where our focus should be, namely on how we ensure that each individual has the best opportunities for a good life, and we need to assess the tools on it. My goal is that we can meet anywhere in life, in everyday life, talk at the sports club, at school. In fact, we do not, because small closed residential areas are allowed to sail their own lake, and quite different values and standards can be allowed to rule and rule in these areas. After all, there is a hard core that for some reason works against integration and the good life in Denmark and is instead stuck with the fact that there is probably better in the home country. So I am preoccupied with the fact that we are getting something serious done about the problem. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: how long do we have to wait to see the government's bid for solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135145	It won't be long. Well, that's why I used my New Year's speech to announce it. I understand that SF hasn't really followed up on those discussions from the national meeting back in 2016 until today, on top of my New Year's speech. I'd like to sign for that. In other words, rather than discussing who thinks when, I would like to acknowledge the tone of today's chairman of the SF, as well as the chairman of the Social Democratic Party. I only know it from Berlingske, but if it is up to believers, I think there is a very good starting point when the government probably presents its overall proposal for a holistic battle with parallel societies and ghetto formation around the winter holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135234	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135235	It's always hard to be the last one in the question round. I'm thinking that the PM can get a little tired and a little grumpy, sorry, a little less happy. So I really hope that we can keep the open dialogue. Well, the SF has followed up on these suggestions. SF has several times sent proposals to the government and invited us to meetings and has among other things. together with the Social Democratic Party made a proposal today. We have also been regularly involved in the process in meetings of the Minister for Integration, but without any action being taken. So instead of spending several hours and years at circuit meetings or talking, I'm just gonna ask you a little bit about the content of some of this. What are the challenges we face? And what is to be discussed and resolved? What does the Prime Minister say to look at a percentage in relation to the high schools, about how many there must be of other ethnic origin or people who are bilingual? Can we be involved in discussing a dispute with free school elections, because that is part of the discussion? And will the Prime Minister help to look at an automatic write-up for the day nurseries, so we are sure that from childhood the language will be put under the skin? It's just to mention two examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135353	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135355	The latter is, after all, a very good example of one of the dilemmas we are facing and which is also the reason why I have said and made a great deal of it in my New Year's speech, that we are now coming up with an overall approach that is targeted at those areas where we have the greatest problems. Because there are dilemmas here. It is quite obvious that there are children born in homes where Danish is not the main language; where parents have no employment relationship; where, when you go out the door to play with peers, you meet other children who also do not master the Danish language. And I fully agree that for them it would be a very, very good idea for us to take care that they come into an environment that allows them to have the skills, the skills needed, for example. later to be able to start in primary school. Does this mean that we have to make some rules that are applied in every part of Denmark in such a way that people who live their lives according to Danish values, who have the skills to raise their children themselves, and who have a wish that their children should not go to day care, should then be forced to put their children in day care? No, it would be an inappropriate price to pay. That is what has been set aside for the way I want to think about it. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr must therefore arm himself with the patience that, as I indicated before, we come up with our proposals around the winter holidays. So we have to see if we can do anything that works more effectively in those places where the problems are, without hitting the Danes as they are most.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135522	Thank you! Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135528	But that can easily be done. Let's just take the question of crèche writing. We have some excellent professionals around Denmark who come into people's homes and who can assess whether the child gets the linguistic stimulant that is necessary, namely our healthcare provider. It was part of the Finance Act that we helped make in 2015: to increase the efforts of healthcare professionals. What did this government do when it stepped in? It limited the possibility that healthcare professionals just have time to make these assessments, which, instead of just doing such an automatic in it, is actually also based on professionalism. I can't wait for the government to make its move. I just hope that this isn't such a game where you say you want to talk about it, as I experienced it was what the then Minister of Integration wanted in spring 2016, where I still haven't seen anything on the government side because the problem doesn't get any smaller out there. Unfortunately, it is growing and we need to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135626	The last answer from the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135628	I fully agree with the latter, and that is also why I dedicated my whole New Year's speech to breaking up with parallel societies. And I could stand here and be polemical about what you did when you were in government, and all that, but I really don't think that's the way forward. In other words, we have a problem that has not been resolved and there are the dilemmas that I tried to suggest before, namely that in a country where equality also applies, and that it should be treated equally, and what I know of lots of good principles, we have often historically run into the challenge that in order to do something where there really are problems, take the Muslim free schools and take it in a way that is clinging to the whole free school environment, which has no challenges. We should be careful not to throw the baby out with the bath water. That is why, months ago, I set up a committee with three ministers in charge of policy area policy area for policy area, to look at whether there is an opportunity for us to focus this much more. For if we can do that, we can both make the money go further and make the instruments more sharp, because they are instruments that should not hit everyone, but only those that represent the greatest challenges. I would like to sign off on the fact that the SF will also be open to that debate during Question Time. And then I do not think there is any reason to close any more doors, but there is reason to rejoice, because that gives a good start when the government comes up with its proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135757	Thank you. That was the last answer. After that, the Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116135807	Would you like some quiet? Today there is the following review: Trine Torp (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 59 (proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the establishment of drug-free treatment services in psychiatry). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I think I will wait a moment with the votes until everyone is here. We can proceed to the vote now, but I just have to ask for a little more silence in the Chamber so that everyone knows what they are voting on. Thank you. Then we can vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140053	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 21 by Christian Langballe (DF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 81 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 21 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 22 of Mattias Tesfaye (S). The vote is over. For the vote 28 (S), against 72 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 4 (SF). Proposal for adoption No V 22 is rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 23 by Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT), Zenia Stampe (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 23 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140234	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140253	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140303	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140312	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 95 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140343	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140408	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140438	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140501	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. And we can vote now. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140535	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party, does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140620	Thank you. The reason I have just asked for the floor is what can you say about a debate that has been going on for a week, especially up in Lønstrup, where things happen because people are afraid that their property will fall into the sea. This resulted in me taking a trip to Lønstrup last Friday with our chairman of the Danish People's Party, Kristian Thulesen Dahl, to see what is actually going on up there. I have to say that when you get up there, it's not like what's in the papers almost so bad to see it. But you can understand that people feel powerless when they see the sea coming closer and closer to their property and the cliffs pouring down. At the same time it has to be said that the mayor of Hjørring Municipality has also been out with the rake and tells us that we are not doing anything here in the Folketing. In fact, I disagree with that, because I believe that we are making a very large amendment to the coastal protection law, and that is also why I have chosen to speak today. Perhaps I would also like to invite the Minister to make some comments on this. We've made some changes to the law of plans. Now we are in the process of L 100, where we are changing the objectives a little, that we are removing a 25-year rule which has been totally foolish and which has certainly made some houses fall into the sea for no reason at all. And then we have a legislative proposal that is in consultation, where we also need to see that people are given more opportunities to make tough coastal protection. At least that's something people up in Lønstrup talk a lot about. Because when you see the sea eating closer and closer into your house, you get worried about your property. I would therefore very much like to call on the Minister to also go up and tell us a little about the fact that we are actually doing something in here in the Folketing, so that we are not trying to play the monkey any further, we are actually trying to help the citizens. This must also be understood in the municipalities, so that the citizens are of course helped. You will also at some point in the municipalities just bear the responsibility... now I have used Hjørring Municipality as an example, and I will continue to do so as mayor, as a municipal council and should say yes or no to whether people have to protect the coast. Then it gets very close whether you have to do something or not to do anything. The Coast Directorate will have an indicative role. But it has been the whole plan with the agreement that the government has made with KL, and it is something that we in the Danish People's Party at least think is really good, namely that it comes out there, where the citizens are and where people know what is going on. So a call to the Minister to make just a few comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140917	Thank you. The Minister would like that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116140924	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for his call. I would like to sign for the very fine cooperation that we have had on coastal protection and coastal protection, because there is no doubt that this is something that concerns so many Danes, that they see property falling into the sea, that they see that there are places where you have wilder weather, and that it matters how you can stay safely. We have also said from the government that the Danes should be able to sleep safely at night in the interaction we have had with the Danish People's Party. They must be given the possibility of more severe coastal protection. It needs to be done securely so you don't ruin it for the neighbors. We give responsibility to the country's municipalities, which are closest to the citizens, while the Coastal Directorate then gives an indicative opinion on what the coastal engineering should look like. We are also removing the rule that has meant that there should be 25 years or more before you could be allowed to shore-ensure your house against the fact that it could fall into the sea, etc. etc. This also means, for example up in Lønstrup, that the landowners who have previously been refused an application for tough coastal protection, yes, they can apply again. Whether they will be approved depends, of course, on their project etc. But we are just opening the doors around the country so that more people can be allowed to protect their property, but also land and the like. I am very, very satisfied with the opportunity that we are now opening up to the citizens, and this shows that the Folketing is not in any way sitting on its hands, but is showing the way for more Danes to have better opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141102	Thank you, Minister. There is a question from Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141106	Thank you. It is such a slightly different debate, but I can confirm that what has happened on Christmas Days and over the turn of the year is something that concerns the minds of North Jutland. I would therefore like to ask the Minister now, where there is an opportunity to do so, whether it is true that the government has been busy wiping off the responsibility of each pilot and the municipality, so that the state has no responsibility in this, but that there are only the two parties left. One of the problems in the coastal analysis that is being presented is that in North Jutland the municipality of Hjørring is the worst affected of all municipalities, so they do not have the money and the muscles, even if they want to be coastproof, nor do the citizens have the money. What exactly are they supposed to do, apart from being able to say yes to whether citizens have money, whether they can afford to make a coastguard?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141156	Thank you. This is a rather strange form of questioning, considering that all that, like Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has called out, that is, that there should now be better opportunities for coastal protection and the like, which have not been possible for years, we are now giving the opportunity, and then the question is whether we are just wiping things off on citizens and municipalities. That's bullshit. What remains the responsibility of the citizens is the protection of the coast. Then there is a common agreement to be renegotiated in 2018, which is where the state has obligations, and finally we are now giving the municipalities the opportunity to have the planning responsibility, something that KL so much supports, and where we have also allocated funds for a wide variety of things. So on that issue of a more polemical nature, sir. Bjarne Laustsen asked, the answer is direct.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141246	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141248	Well, I asked specifically what the role of the state is in this. And it's nothing. It's making legislation, making sure that the municipalities can say yes to something they can't afford. That's how it's experienced out there. And that's why I'm asking directly what the role of the state is in it. We have had a coastal analysis initiated by the previous government and it explains that in Hjørring and a few municipalities in North Zealand there are ten low-lying areas that have major challenges when there is flooding when there is storm. And the question is whether we are going to see that this is happening, that is, that there are areas being flooded and that there are houses crashing into the sea. 36 houses have fallen into the sea until now. The question is whether the state has a responsibility and whether it should also contribute. I cannot understand why, in this context, the government has not already called for negotiations on the plan, on the joint agreement running until 2019, to have it reviewed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141342	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141343	Well, the answer is quite simple: the government has not done so, of course, before the negotiation process is to start at the end of 2018 when a new joint agreement is to be negotiated. And Mr. Bjarne Laustsen well, so there's no need to argue about that. The responsibility of the state lies in the joint agreement. That is where we assume our responsibilities. This has been done for many, many years, even under previous governments. Nor do we depart from the basic principle that it is the citizen who pays for his own coast protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141407	Then it's mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141409	Thank you to the Minister for taking the floor. I should just like to ask: could it be that the reaction of the citizens of the Nørlev-Lønstrup area is linked to the fact that there are quite different conditions for coastal protection on the west coast of Jutland? I am familiar with the fact that the state is committed to the coast protection from the border and up to Limfjorden, but from Limfjorden and then north you have to take care of yourself. Could it be that some of the explanation for the frustrations here can be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141445	Yeah, I think you can do that to a great extent. I am also surprised that, at the time the last joint agreement was negotiated, the government did not choose to look at the possibility of extending the joint agreement. Orla Sea and Mr. Bjarne Laustsen was in a government party. We are going to take that discussion during 2018: where is the joint agreement to be extended? And there we have a coastal analysis launched by the then government, which shows some indications of where the criteria are the same. And, of course, we will look into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141515	Thank you. Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141516	Well, the truth is that the coastal analysis that is being carried out has only come after the previous government. It was the previous government that ordered this analysis. Would it then be possible for the government to correct the imbalance and for the state, on one coast along the west coast of Jutland, to engage, and that this is also done on the stretch that goes from Limfjorden to Skagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141547	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141548	Thank you. Anyway, I can tell Mr. Simpson... Orla Hav, that we will be based on the coastal analysis that has been carried out, which gives some indications of how the challenges are. I believe that the current agreement dates back to the early 1980s, when we have had erosion coasts and large hinterland areas where there was a risk that they would be flooded if we did not have proper protections. And, of course, we are going to look at that now when we are going to get on with the joint agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141613	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141616	It is just a little follow-up in relation to questions from North Jutland members of the Folketing. Basically, I do not think the paper on which it was written was worth it, because so much new wasn't in it either, although it's fine enough to get it written down on paper. Well, there is a common agreement over on the West Coast, but the rest of Denmark has no one, and it is not only in Hjørring Municipality or north of Limfjorden that it is a problem, because then it is probably also Nordsjælland and everywhere else. Then we can all, a little depending on where we are chosen, come and tell about the problems. What is important for the Danish People's Party is that people are actually allowed to do something to protect their properties so that they can sleep safely at night, as the Minister says, and that is what we are working towards, so that you can actually go to bed without being afraid that your house will fall into the sea, and that is actually what we want to adopt. Despite the fact that we would really like to give money to everyone, so we just took care of it from in here, this is just not how the world is connected, and that is why it is still, as it has always been, the citizens who have to pay. But that is not what has been the main problem, as I see it at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141735	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141736	Thank you for the question. I very much agree with Mrs Pia Adelsteen on this. This is certainly a step in the direction we would like to take in terms of increasing the freedom of method and giving you the opportunity to secure your property much better than you have been able to do until today, and it is a very, very great victory for the security and legal certainty of the individual citizen in relation to property and the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141801	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141802	I would just like to follow up a little on the role of the Coastal Directorate, which will become the more an advisory role where the municipalities are not obliged to follow the advice of the Directorate. We have also talked about the fact that, while there have been only a few solutions that we have been able to relate to, we can now advise ourselves with someone other than necessarily the Coastal Directorate and perhaps find other solutions, that is, solutions that we may not have tried before, but where it can make sense to do something new.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141832	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141832-2	We have just proposed that we should have more methods tested and that it should be authorised, as well as we are internationally active in relation to other parts of the world, where other methods of protection are used. And yes, the advisory function of the Coastal Directorate will be an advisory function, and the authorisation granted by the municipalities must, of course, be able to meet the requirements for establishment and the like, but there will be a practice for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141902	Thank you. Then there are no more comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141904	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It has been adopted I propose that the bill go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141916	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116141933	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL and ALT), joined by a minority (S, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142017	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142036	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. There are several proposals that need to be put through, but I would very much like if you do not necessarily want to be in the Chamber or on your way out, at least keep quiet while you are on your way out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142135	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142200	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (V, DF, LA, RV, SF and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142217	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142234	The proposal here is about insecurity-building camps. It is about the people who settle in tent camps, tarpaulin camps or the like in recreational areas, under bridges or elsewhere in our society, and thus create great insecurity, often because they are many gathered in one place. The purpose of the bill is to allow the Minister of Justice to lay down administrative rules enabling the police to notify zone bans covering up to an entire municipality to those who establish and stay in the insecure camps, and this is a proposal that we in the Social Democratic Party can support. Because with the administrative rules, the police will have a much better tool and thus much better opportunity to deal with these insecure camps, which also often have a hygienic after-play, because it leaves a number of leftovers and waste in these recreational areas. At the same time it is made clear to visitors and others that it is therefore not allowed to come here to Denmark and establish itself and stay in the insecure camps in public places. In social democracy, we do not believe that people should settle under tarpaulins on public land. We have shelters that can house the Danish homeless, and we have a social service to ensure that they get out of homelessness, and that is how it should continue to be, and we would very much like to contribute to strengthening, but the solution is not simply to let people spend the night around our society. The effort, which is about our social services and our shelters, is primarily directed at the Danish homeless, and that is how we think it should be. Because we cannot help the whole of Europe, despite the fact that we have great sympathy for those people who are in an economically unfavourable situation. The aim of the open borders in Europe has always been to ensure the free movement of goods and labour, but not to create free camping on public land in our society. We have read the hearings, among others. From KL and a number of surrounding municipalities to the capital, and they point to this problem that can arise when, for example, you put in the zone ban in the capital, and then you just move the problem, and we think that there is reason to pay close attention to that. Because this isn't the answer to the problem. Well, it's not the solution to the problem that we're just moving people, but hopefully it can make some people not choose to go to Denmark and feed themselves through various more or less illegal professions and settle around our society. But we support the proposal here. We believe that it is a necessary tool in terms of getting rid of the insecurity that these camps create around our society, and also the hygiene problems that it is when you set up camp without drains and the opportunity to deliver your garbage and stuff.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142611	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142612	In Enhedslisten we do not think that people should live in camps, whether they are Danish or foreign homeless. The problem of dignity must be addressed. And of course, if you come to Denmark from other parts of Europe, you are not supposed to come here to live in a camp. Then you have to find a dignified way to help people move on in their lives and help those people to come home to the countries in which they are citizens. It could be through a transit house, like us. see it in Copenhagen. It could be an opportunity, like helping people move on in their lives. The problem we have with this bill is that it extends the zone ban to not just being able to go up to 800 metres, but to being an entire municipality. And we have that situation, as some of the hearing answers also point out, that in reality it will be criminalising homelessness and criminalising poverty. How does the Socialist rapporteur feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142707	We mean, like the Enhedslisten, and that is what I said in my speech, that people who are homeless should be helped. We have a social service for that, we have shelters for that. Therefore, it is important that we use it as a lever out of homelessness and not just allow you to spend the night around and camp. That's what this is about. It's about camps. We do not believe that it is the solution to the problems that either the problem of homelessness or poverty is solved, for example, by setting up tarpaulins or tents or anything else, which also creates greater insecurity. So we think this is going very well at the camps we've seen around in parks and other recreational areas. We think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142755	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142755-2	This bill is based on some definitions of camps that are extremely unclear and watered down: well, one person who lives under a table tennis table in a park also constitutes a camp, we have seen in some of the cases that have been. And on top of that, the zone ban would then be extended not only to be up to a radius of 800 m, but could actually cover an entire municipality. I think it is the criminalisation of poverty. I would actually like to ask the Socialist rapporteur how the Socialist rapporteur feels about this not only hitting foreign homeless people, i.e. people who are homeless in Denmark, who have a foreign passport, but also hitting Danish citizens. How does Mrs. Trine Bramsen feel about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142839	What the Social Democratic Party is worst off with is that we have people in this society who don't have a place to live and who live in poverty. That's where we're gonna start. We are not doing this by allowing them to just camp somewhere in our society. We do this by helping them to have a dignified life. So we don't think that's living on some of our recreational areas or under a bridge. They must be lifted out of poverty, and they must be assigned a place to live. That's the way to help them. That is the lead we would like to pursue. That is also what I stressed in my speech that we really think more needs to be done for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142917	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142919	I would like to follow up on Enhedslisten's question about camps, what an insecure camp is. I agree with many people and tents and so on, but I would like to hear Mrs Trine Bramsen define what it takes to make it a camp. So, how many people do it take to make it a camp, what kind of forms of establishment do it take to talk about it being a camp?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142951	Here you go, Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116142955	Well, it is the same thing that is already illegal today, and that is, for example, when you drag mattresses or tarpaulins or something else in and establish yourself somewhere in our society on a public land. It is, in fact, illegal even today. That is not what the bill as such amends, it is what the penalty is, and there is the fact that you introduce the zone ban, because you can then say: once you have been taken to camp in one place, you cannot just move 400 metres away and then set up camp in a new place without it having a consequence. That is the part of what we are actually dealing with today. It is already illegal to make tent camps and lay mattresses around. That is also why people who camp at the lakes in Copenhagen, for example, are nicely advised. Sometimes tourists think you can just do that. They get a recommendation to find a real campsite to pitch their tent on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143048	Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143049	But am I to understand that a camp for the Social Democracy and Mrs Trine Bramsen is when one person chooses to sleep on the street? That's how I hear it. What I find difficult then is that we have not banned homelessness as such, but if a camp is really defined as people sleeping outside, then I have a little difficulty uniting the two things. But my question is, is a camp just when a person chooses to sleep in the open sky?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143128	Well, I guess I just answered that. What is now defined as a camp is also what will apply in the future, and that is that you have mattresses, that you have tarpaulins, and that you have different equipment you have set up. That is true today, and it will be true in the future. What we're discussing here is the zone ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143147	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143148	Thank you to the rapporteur. After all, I share the rapporteur's view that it is unworthy of people to have to live in camps out in the open and so on. I guess what I just didn't understand is that this extended zone ban is the solution to it. I would really like to see the rapporteur's explanation of how we are going to deal with the fact that people should not have to stay in these camps. Can the rapporteur not elaborate on this more preventive aspect, or what we should call it, a more social aspect than just extending the ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143225	We do not believe that the ban here solves the problem of Danish homeless people, for example. We need to get in there with a social effort and ensure that these people are contacted and offered places to settle and that they also receive better help than they do today. For the truth is that many of the people who today end up on the street cannot make a life in, for example, an opportunity to work, and therefore they continue to end up on the street. That is where we must do much more and extend that effort. But when it comes to foreign homeless people, the solution is another. Then it's helping them back to the country they come from. That's also why we have a number of transit centres around Denmark, especially in Copenhagen, because that's where the most foreign homeless people come to. And then they need help in the country they come from. Because we cannot help all of Europe's homeless people, and the solution is certainly not to let them spend the night in the open. The zone ban here is not the solution, but we think it is a good signal that you cannot simply move 400 metres once you have been told that your camp was illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143334	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143335	Thank you. I do not understand why the Social Democratic Party supports the ban, if in reality it is the other measures we know to help, that is to say the more preventive measures, and indeed the transit programmes, which I also very much agree with the rapporteur on in relation to the foreign homeless. What I am concerned about here is the specific people, but that is also what KL addresses, and which the rapporteur himself addressed in his rapporteur's speech, that we are simply moving the problem. How will the rapporteur respond to the fact that we are simply moving the problem beyond 800 metres to other areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143413	As far as I could hear, there were two questions there. Why does the Social Democratic Party support this proposal? We do this because it is a problem today that there are people camping in recreational areas. So it has some major consequences in relation to insecurity for the other people who use these recreational areas. I have been contacted by several citizens who dare not come in their local park because camps have been established; because they can see that people live inside the bushes, that there are tarpaulins; and because it also has some hygiene consequences. When a public park is used as a toilet and when waste is dumped for longer periods of time, then it has consequences. That's why we support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143459	We thank Mrs Trine Bramsen and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Bramsen. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143511	Thank you. With the proposal here, the government will allow the Minister of Justice to lay down rules allowing the police to notify zone bans covering an entire municipality, whereas the current rules limit themselves to a few hundred metres, in cases involving unsafe camps in public spaces. It is then defined as being e.g. in parks and on public roads. In the Danish People's Party we support the government's proposal. The proposal then provides for the possibility of using these options in specific situations. The comments on the proposal indicate that in the particular situations, the aim is to ensure that, inter alia: foreign visitors establish and stay in an insecurity-building camp in a public place. We think it is fine to have the opportunity to show people away nicely and to distribute a zone ban that goes beyond the zone ban that you can already hand out today, and that is what the proposal is all about: extending this zone ban, but I really would like the government to do more. Because if we specifically aim for foreign beggars who establish themselves in camps, which we then define as insecurity-building, then I do not understand why we should only have a zone ban that sends them to the neighbouring municipality. So let us have a zone ban for our entire country. Because it would be most reasonable for people coming from other countries to be typically EU countries, of course, to be helped in their own countries where they are nationals, just as Denmark should, of course, take care of our own citizens who may be homeless. After all, we have also been very influenced by the stories that have come over the last few years and that have been in the press, where people have been frightened to travel in the public room because there had suddenly been some camp where people lived out in the open with mattresses and tarpaulins and tents and everything. So it has made people in some areas deeply concerned, and they have also felt powerless. That is why, of course, we can support the fact that we have some additional opportunities to remove this kind of camp. I also believe and hope that this will help to have a deterrent signal to those people who, in other countries, could be attracted to moving towards Denmark and setting up camps, possibly feeding themselves through begging or committing crime. There I believe and hope that this is at least a step in the right direction, because the signal itself will be a deterrent. But at least: The Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143755	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143759	In spite of the many comments made in the draft law, which refer only to the fact that this should include foreigners, this would also affect Danish citizens, Danish citizens who are homeless. For example: If you are homeless and lie on some cardboard because it isolates against the cold, there is an element of establishment, and then it can be defined as a camp, even if you lie alone. How's sir? Peter Kofod Poulsen said that even Danish citizens who are homeless could be affected by this very great tightening, in relation to the fact that zone bans can now not just go in a radius of up to 800 m, but can actually include an entire municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143843	I have two answers for Mr. Rune Lund, because first of all, the criteria for what may be a camp do not actually change. It is therefore only a question of extending a zone ban by several metres to a municipal border or not. That's one thing. There is no change in that. It is only like the breadth of the proposal. The other thing is about how I feel about this being able to hit the Danish homeless as well. Well, it's a follower. It is already the case with the current rules that the rules apply to everyone. They apply to Danes, they apply to foreigners, and so it is. Then I find it strange that we cannot take extra care of citizens, in other words Danish citizens, because I actually take the view that Danish citizens are the responsibility of the Danish State in this context. Then other countries must assume their responsibilities for their own citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143942	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116143943	I agree with the latter. I just do not believe that the extension of the zone ban is the right way to do so, including in the case of the United Kingdom. because it can hit many Danish citizens very hard. If you, after that you e.g. have been sentenced to sleep on a piece of cardboard in a camp and you have been hit by a zone ban, then you have the opportunity to have a residence in the City of Copenhagen where you have been sentenced to the zone ban, how has Mr. So Peter Kofod Poulsen that we may not be able to participate in cultural activities, if that is what we want or if we are restricted in our freedom of movement in relation to a wide range of activities which we must assume will be subject to the ban on zones? It is, of course, a major restriction on freedom of movement for Danish citizens, which has been hit by a very violent ban on zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144030	That's right. Somebody's gonna get hit by this. That's a cut because we're making the zoning ban bigger. Rune Lund is absolutely right about this and so we must help the Danish citizens who might be affected by this. I think we should do that because, as I said, I think it is the duty of the state, and that is the way it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144052	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144053	I am well aware that it is the zoning ban and the extension of the zoning ban that are on today's agenda. But when I ask about the definition of camps, it's because it helps to define how big a group this is going to be. And that's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen on something that I also asked Mrs Trine Bramssen about, namely what it takes to make it a camp. And I am thinking in particular of the Danish homeless, whom I know the Danish People's Party is very concerned about, and to whom party funds have even been given. How much does it take? Well, if you're Danish homeless in Copenhagen, how can you sleep on the street without being hit by this ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144138	The questioner has asked Mrs Trine Bramsen about this in a previous round, and I really agree with Mrs Trine Bramsen in her definition. For example, she was... inside mattresses, it could be tents, it could be tarpaulins. It could be a way to define it. But I think it is important to bear in mind that the definitions of this have not changed. In other words, what we are discussing is whether we should be able to go above the 800 metres that are today the limit. And then you have to be able to walk from the 800 m and all the way to the municipal border? We in the Danish People's Party think we can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144214	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144215	When I ask, it is also because the answers to the hearings revolve around this issue. SAND writes that they lack a clarification of what a camp is, as the homeless seek security and warmth together, and they may then end up being criminalised. That is why I would like to ask: is that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen's position that two Danish homeless people who roll a sleeping bag into a park and sleep together are covered by this ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144244	Well, the limitations haven't changed. In other words, the criteria that may apply today must be assumed to be already enforced by the police, various authorities, various organizations which may know about these limitations, the Ministry of Justice has not changed. That's not what we're discussing, Mrs. Zenia Stampe. But I think it is important, and one can ask about it in committee. Then you can get the strict definition. I think that is OK in the comments made in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144316	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144331	Thank you. Nowadays, the law is such that, according to the order order, the police can issue a zone ban. The zone ban means that a person is not allowed to establish or reside in camps that create insecurity. The first time you get a zone ban, it can be extended to 400 m, the second time to a radius of 800 m. The zone ban does not mean that the person concerned cannot show up or pass through that zone. This means that he or she cannot stay in the zone. With this proposal that we are discussing today, the possibility for the police to issue the ban is now being extended to a whole municipality, and it is true, as previous rapporteurs have said, that this is basically the only thing that changes the proposal here, namely the geographical scope. After all, it is not the case that definitions of camps or anything else are being changed, as the questions have indicated here today. This is the case, and it is no secret that the homeless who sleep in the open sky and in camps etc. do not care whether you can use that expression at 400 or 800 metres, as long as there is the activity in the city that they need, and it is typical to collect bottles. It's sad, but that's the way it is. The enlargement we are now implementing must be expected to have a certain preventive effect, as suburban municipalities will not be as attractive to those concerned as, for example, the centre of Copenhagen. We know that, for example, the churches have been haunted with consequent hepatitis problems. As I said, we have had to vaccinate the staff. I can only refer to what previous rapporteurs have said, particularly Mrs Trine Bramsen: it causes hygiene problems, it causes problems in that people who otherwise live their lives around the places in question, if I may say normally, do not have the courage to show up there, and I do not think that we can actually do that here in Denmark. The proposal as such, with the wording it now has, will present a risk to 7 days in jail. I expect it to have a deterrent effect. It would be a signal to visitors that there should therefore not be camps in public places, here we are referring to campsites and the rules applicable to campsites. Of course we have problems, there is no need to neglect that, with people who sleep outdoors. I can only refer to what has already been said. We have a social service and we have a shelter service which, if necessary, addresses these problems. So, on this basis, the Left can fully support the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144644	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144649	The comments say a lot about foreigners and foreign homeless people. If that was the problem that would be solved, perhaps instead of making populist proposals to criminalise begging and further criminalise homelessness, as is being done with this, we could look at some of the rules we have today on the free movement of workers. We have some rules, for example. migrant workers. If these are the rules you use to get to Denmark, there are for example. some conditions to be active job seekers, to be able to support yourself, which is defined as having a certain amount of money on you corresponding to the cash benefit rate. If it is the foreign homeless that you want to help further and do not want to make camps, for example. on the Amager Common in Copenhagen or inside the inner city of Copenhagen, why do we not apply the rules that exist to migrant workers in the European Union, where borders have actually been set rather than criminalising poverty, as this proposal clearly does?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144753	It was a little bit to put words in one's mouth, that is, the last thing about this proposal criminalising poverty. This proposal doesn't criminalise poverty. I don't know where you're fined or jailed for being poor. It was at least a few years ago that it took place here in Denmark. The proposal provides for the possibility of issuing a zone ban to be extended geographically. Sir. Rune Lund had an explanation about the European Union and the movement of workers, etc. I do not really see that this is particularly relevant to the proposal we are debating today, and I must stress that this is not a proposal which only applies to foreigners. This also applies to Danes. Nowhere does it say that only foreigners are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144836	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144837	This proposal will make it harder to be homeless, whether you are a Danish national or a foreign national; that is right. We, the Enhedslisten, would like to help the foreign citizens who set up camps, move on to a dignified life, because we do not believe that the future of the foreign homeless is, for example, the future of the homeless. to live under a tarp at Amager Samled here in Copenhagen. We do not think so, but we think they should be helped dignifiedly. We simply do not want to be involved in what is actually being done with this proposal being a further criminalisation of homelessness and poverty. So my question is again: could we not look a little more at the EU rules on migrant workers instead of making this kind of populist proposal, which is really just about criminalising poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144921	I fully agree with Mr. Rune Lund in that foreign homeless needs help. Must be something foreign to take care of. Surely it cannot be the intention that one can just settle down in Denmark and then appeal to Enhedslisten for help. I think we should concentrate on helping the Danes, and then we should make a proposal that will ensure that the least possible foreigners come up here to set up camps in Denmark, and this is an excellent example of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116144945	Well, then, sir. Naser Khader asked for a brief comment. No, I haven't. Yes, you have, but it was probably a mistake. That's the way it is. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Mr Lund as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145014	This proposal deals, as several rapporteurs have said, with the extension of the rules on zone bans, so that, if a zone ban is imposed, it no longer goes up to a radius of 800 metres. It could be within an entire municipality. If we start with the discussion about camps, I would say that we in the Enhedslisten feel that you should not live in a camp. It is not worthy of anyone, either for Danish citizens or for foreign nationals. We think that people should be helped. For Danish citizens it will be one effort, for foreign citizens it will be another effort. It is the case that many of the people who come up here and live under shaky conditions in a camp or as homeless people on the streets of, for example. Copenhagen has often come to look for work, but they soon find out that it is not so easy just to find a job in Denmark, for example. in Copenhagen. Then many of these people end up in social deroute, and they may end up homeless, and then we have a situation in which we in Denmark must help those people understood in a way that they must be helped back to the country where they are citizens in a dignified way. That is where the effort should be, but what we have seen, instead, in relation to the legislative proposals that have been in the Chamber, has been a sharpening of the punishment for begging, which affects both foreign and Danish citizens. And that is another tightening of the zoning ban rules, as there is in this bill. We believe on the part of the Enhedslisten that this is, in fact, a further criminalisation of homelessness. We have also asked a number of questions here in the Danish Parliament. I have in any case asked a great many people the answer that a camp can be made up of just down to one person, such as: may lie under a tarp or lie on a piece of cardboard. Why is zone bans even necessary if it is the problem of foreign homeless people that you want to deal with or solve? There I think it is important that we recognise that there are actually some rules that could be a way of resolving the problem rather than adopting further tightenings. It is precisely the European Union's rules on migrant workers, where there are clearly defined rules on the need to be active job seekers and to be able to document it and also to be able to show that you are self-supporting, by showing a cash for which you can live. Instead of adopting all these populist austerity measures, which are a criminalisation of poverty, we would rather take the Enhedslisten to look at the rules that exist without making these further tightenings. We have read quite a few of the consultation answers, for example. Those of the Church's Cross Army and of the Gadeiturist, who among other things. notes that this is really a ban on homelessness. The Church's Cross Army is also experiencing • and this is in relation to the rules on camps that this bill builds on • that people do not dare to sleep together for fear of being considered as a camp, and therefore that homeless people now sleep alone. This increases the risk of violence and assault and leads to increased insecurity and stress. The Church's Cross Army states that people are fined for establishing and staying in a camp, even if they are alone, and that this is justified by a so-called establishment element in the form of a mattress or a piece of cardboard that isolates against the cold. This increases the risk of diseases, as people now fail to use effects that can be seen as elements of establishment, and the Church's Cross Army now knows examples where people have started trying to get up and sleep or sleep sitting on benches and chairs to avoid violating the camp ban. This, of course, leads to overload, exhaustion and lack of resources to think long-term. These consequences, according to the Church's Cross Army and also in the view of Enhedslisten, are disturbing and should be taken very seriously. The Institute of Human Rights states that they consider it essential that this amendment to the law should not lead to discriminatory management by the announcement of zone bans. The prohibition of discrimination includes both direct and indirect discrimination, regardless of whether discrimination is based on legislation or administrative practice. So targeted action against foreign residents who are causing problems of order in public spaces must not result in discrimination in the application of the Order of Conduct's camp and zone bans, so that the violation of the camp ban by foreigners leads to criminal prosecution and the granting of zone bans in cases where such violations would not result in criminal prosecution or the granting of zone bans to Danish citizens in a similar situation. We have a large number of questions on the technique of this, which we will be asking during the committee procedure, but I am going to stop here for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145531	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Rune Lund and goes further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145552	Thank you. For the Liberal Alliance, it is essential that you as a citizen of Denmark move safely and freely throughout the public space. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen examples of groups camping in public places, disrupting public order and creating insecurity for residents and passers-by. This is, of course, unsustainable and a situation that requires solutions. And the government has already taken various initiatives in this direction. However, the assessment is that there is a need to strengthen efforts further, and that is what is being proposed in this draft law. With the bill, the government wants to extend the possibility for the police to impose a so-called zone ban, just as the penalties for violations of the law are being tightened up. It's a tough, but necessary, remedy that the police are given here. And it is important to make it clear that the proposal applies to a very specific and specific situation which, I hope, is temporary. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance also welcome the sunset clause, which is part of the proposal, whereby the law automatically expires on 1 March 2021, unless the Folketing has previously decided otherwise. This means that we will have to decide again in the near future on the necessity and operation of the law. In the Liberal Alliance, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145716	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145719	The Gadejuristen has made a thorough consultation response and states, among other things, that the prohibition of residence in insecure camps, together with the punishment for betel service, appears to be used primarily against foreign homeless people. However, a single Danish citizen has been convicted of being begged according to the new regulations, but overall, Gadejuristen finds that and that is what I would like to have Mrs Christina Egelund's comment on the fact that there is much evidence that the measures taken by the government and the Folketing against insecure camps are administered discriminatoryly. How does Mrs Christina Egelund view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145759	In the first place, of course, the law applies to everyone, because we should not and we should not and we should not make discriminatory laws in this country which apply to particular groups or particular nationalities, ethnicities, other groups. If it is true that it is administered in a discriminatory spirit, I think it is absolutely a problem, because it is, of course, a fundamental principle of a legal society that everyone is equal before the law and the law is equally enforced for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145835	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145836	If it emerges that this law has actually been administered discriminatoryly, in other words contrary to the principles of Danish law and international conventions, how will the Liberal Alliance follow it up as part of the government? Is this something that the Liberal Alliance will accept, or how will Mrs Christina Egelund deal with such a situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145902	It is clear that if it comes down to the fact that the law is enforced in violation of international law of one kind or another, then it is not something that we are simply saying it is something that we want to take up from the location that we have. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145924	We thank Mrs Christina Egelund and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116145940	Thank you. With this bill, the government wants to extend the authority to lay down rules on zone bans, and this is because it wants to ensure that foreign visitors cannot settle in a camp in public places, for example. in parks and on public roads. Today, there is already the possibility of granting a zone ban to people who have established themselves in a so-called insecure camp, and this has been the case since last year, when a majority of Parliament passed that law. At that time, the alternative voted against it, and I can tell you that we will also do so here. Last year we had a problem with the fact that the concept of insecurity-building camp has in fact been very vaguely defined. What does that even mean? How and when do you determine whether a camp is insecure? We also think that this proposal criminalises homeless citizens who are actually trying to create a base, possibly with others, where they can sleep and where they can store their belongings, etc. Then, too, there are a great many organisations that speak up for the homeless and which, for that very reason, also warns to support the proposal. The UN Human Rights Council has also generally criticised several of the measures taken by the government in this area, which we take very seriously in the Alternative. If I am to turn more specifically to the content of this bill, I would say that I think that there are some very harsh restrictions and sanctions on homeless people that we do not approve of. This is true, for example. the measure requiring certain homeless persons to be granted an extended zone ban for the whole municipality if they violate an existing zone ban. Generally speaking, the alternative is not in favour of trying to solve homelessness with punishment and criminalisation. Homeless people belong to a group of the most vulnerable in our society, and we believe in the alternative that completely different tools are needed if we are to create good homeless efforts. In the autumn of 2017, we presented in the Alternative a different response to how to strengthen the homeless effort in Denmark. We did so in cooperation with the homeless themselves and some of the people who work with the homeless at street level, because we believe it is important for the homeless themselves to support the efforts being made towards them. In our own proposal •An alternative to the street • We propose, among other things, that the punishment for begging be abolished, that more cheap temporary settlements be set up and that support be increased for civil society organisations working with or including homeless people. At the same time, our proposal contains a number of proposals designed to improve homelessness efforts at home, for example. The idea of citizen-led budgets and the introduction of a social card, which I know radicals and LA have already proposed, and which has also partly been included in the government proposal. In addition, we also have an increased focus on transit programmes, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, in relation to helping the homeless, who are of foreign origin, back to where they come from in a good way. I would like to express a concern that, even though it is neutrally worded, the bill is administered discriminatoryly, in fact just as we have seen with the begging law, which we will also be discussing here later today, which is being applied exclusively to foreign persons. I am seriously concerned that this bill is also aimed at doing so, and that is one of the things I think we should take very seriously. So I would really like to go because I have just a little time to finish by pointing out some of what the Gadejuristen points out, so that they really think it is extremely problematic and that it can also be perceived as discriminatory. I think it is a positive thing, too, that it is one of the points made by the Gadejuristen that a sunset clause has been inserted, but the points proposed by the Gadejuristen are that the legal text itself should be tightened up, so that, for example, the longest penalty for infringement is laid down in the law and not in the corresponding decree, that a suspensive effect should be introduced by complaint, that a right to justice should be introduced for the zone ban, and that a time limit should be laid down for the period from appeal to review, alternatively that the ban should be dropped, and that the text should be translated into languages understood by the target group, including, among other things, that the text should be translated into languages. Romanian. In those words, thank you for your speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116150443	We thank Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments, so we proceed in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116150453	We agree that, as a society, we should not or should not be able to accept outright homeless camps. This applies to that extent, whether it is Danish homeless or foreign homeless, because it creates an insecurity when a larger group takes over a park or tunnel or other similar locations in this way. That is why it is good for us that there is a ban on camps and that there can also be a ban on zones, both the present and, to that extent, a future major ban on zones that applies in an entire municipality. But we have a problem with the way in which camps are defined. I know that is not what is under discussion today, but it has to be, because that is what defines the area we are talking about anyway. When I say that we are against camps, it is after all when more people take residence and so to speak conquer the street or the park, or whatever it is, but with the way we see the law administered today, it is not camps, because there everyone sleeps outdoors. It is not even the case that it needs to be two people; it may also be because you roll a lying layer or a tarpaulin into rain, and therefore it is not a ban on camps or insecure camps; it is a ban on homelessness or, at least, a ban on homelessness where homelessness is expressed by sleeping. Because what do you do as a homeless person? Then you could say, as some homeless people do, that you sleep alone... that some homeless people do, because they think they need to be more, that the place can be considered a camp... but it makes great sense to be more when you're homeless... maybe not a large camp, but just a camp with two, so you can keep warm, and that you can also create security for each other. For who are the most insecure here? It's the homeless. But to create security, they usually sleep together. I fully agree that they should not sleep in large camps, but there are several homeless people who have now stopped sleeping together two by two because they are afraid that their place will be regarded as a camp. But sleeping alone is not even enough for it not to be seen as a camp, because rolling out the basement or taking the tarpaulin over it makes it considered a camp. It seems to me simply that our Danish homeless people are the ones I am talking about now in a totally untenable and unreasonable situation. What are they gonna do? I really would like an answer to that, because what are they supposed to do if they don't have family? Where are they gonna sleep? So are they just gonna sleep in one municipality and then in the other municipality and then the third municipality? It is simply unworthy. I fully agree that something needs to be done in relation to the homeless, but I simply think that the cost of our own homeless people is far too high. But we have not yet done our job, because we do not think that the foreign homeless should be in Denmark either. We do not object to granting a zone ban when it comes to specific camps, but we can only see that this law also affects the Danish homeless, who simply cannot simply go home to their country, because where should they go? We cannot find an answer to that, nor does it sound as if those who are in favour of this law can answer it. Having said that, I would also like to call on the Minister of Justice, because if there is such a broad consensus that we do not believe that freedom of movement should apply to foreign homeless people, why do we not try to go further than that? I think that Enhedslisten's rapporteur was very good at outlining a possible path to take. The fact that you do not have a place of residence, that you are not looking for a job, that you do not have money and therefore cannot support yourself is here as a tourist, why could it not be a way to go so that we can meet the foreign homeless in this way, check whether they have a residence base and then send them home on that basis, instead of making legislation that hits our own homeless so relentlessly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116150922	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116150936	After all, we are all aware of the unfortunate situations in which homeless people of different nationalities come together in something that might look like camps, and I can well understand the desire to take action against the various challenges that arise. Freedom of movement within the European Union is, of course, about companies and employees being able to move across borders, and at the same time it is easy to understand why poor people from, for example. Eastern Europe would like to move to Denmark, but it is not sustainable, neither for the poor nor for Danish society. However, regardless of social status, legal certainty must be the same for all of us, and we must also believe in why the extension of the zone ban will actually also work. But when we extend a zone ban, it will probably just lead to homeless people being squeezed out into the local communities, and we are in the same direction. And that is perhaps the crux of the discussion, that is to say the belief that pushing, pushing and expelling the poor and the homeless should solve anything. And when, at the same time, legal certainty is at stake, when you are not even able to define what constitutes a camp, then the result is simply that the problem is being moved around, and we can also see, in particular, the consultation answer from the Church's Cross Army, what the consequences will be. The SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151116	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151125	Unfortunately, we have seen a development in recent years when a large group of foreigners travel to Denmark and live as homeless. In the papers, among other things. The Weekendavisen, here on 2 June this year, has been able to read how these groups are often organised in criminal networks, where the money that is raised through begging and bottle-panting goes to the backers of the home country. In these networks, women and children are exploited and forced to beg. The men are stealing pant bottles from local pubs. We have even seen examples of ordinary homeless people being charged protection money to be allowed to sleep on the streets. It is reprehensible. After a period in Denmark, they return home with the money they have managed to collect. It is not necessarily small amounts • it is large amounts in relation to the standards of the home countries. In other words, it is a good business. It is a business where vulnerable people are exploited and where ordinary citizens do not feel safe in public streets and places. These groups have settled in camps in parks and in places where the public space becomes their domain. This is a nuisance to the environment in terms of noise, unrest, unsanitary conditions and, above all, disruption of public order. We must put an end to this. Danes must be able to travel safely in public spaces. Zone bans have been a tool in relation to this trend since 1 July of this year. According to the police, it has been effective and we have had the number of camps reduced very much • the figures are from 15 October. This bill gives the police an even more effective tool. We would like to give the police the opportunity to impose zone bans that apply throughout the municipality. This will, above all, make it easier for the police to keep these groups completely out of the congested urban areas. The cities are particularly hard hit, as the opportunities for begging and collecting the mortgage are better. It is also easier to control a fixed zone than the 400- and 800-metre zones that have been in force since June. So this bill gives the police an effective tool against these groups, and we send a clear signal that Denmark does not want these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151358	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments, so we leave the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151410	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the many positive contributions we have heard today. This suggests that there is a significant majority here in the Folketing that will implement this legislation. It is crucial for the government that citizens can travel safely in public spaces. It is therefore a clear priority for the government to take action against foreign visitors who camp in public places and who, at their stay, create insecurity and discomfort for local residents and passers-bys. The government has already taken a number of steps to bring these conditions to an end, including: by criminalising the establishment and stay of camps that are suitable for creating insecurity in the vicinity, and we have strengthened the police's ability to notify zone bans to persons who violate the ban. However, the insecurity-building camps can pose a serious threat to the normal life of society in the areas where they are established. Against this background, the government considers that there is a need to strengthen efforts against the insecurity-building camps even more. With the proposal, the government will extend the possibility of establishing a zone ban to areas covering an entire municipality. The proposal is intended to provide the police with better tools to effectively address insecurity-building camps, and a strong signal is sent to potential visitors and others that it is not allowed in Denmark to establish itself and stay in insecure camps in public places. The proposal shall apply in specific situations where persons establish and stay in an insecure camp in a public place. An example could be people who stay in parks or on public roads for longer periods of time and who create insecurity in the area. The proposed amendment to the Police Act shall be automatically repealed on 1 March 2021 unless the Folketing has previously extended the validity of the proposed amendment. It is also proposed that the penalty for non-compliance with the zone ban be tightened up. In concrete terms, this will mean that the penalty is based on 7 days of unconditional imprisonment in first cases, and it must send a clear signal to potential visitors and others that insecurity-building camps cannot be accepted. With those comments, I would like to thank you for your contributions and I look forward to the further consideration and, of course, I am available for any questions that may be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151632	There are just a few brief comments, first from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151635	It is somewhat unclear to me what exactly can and must not be done in the ban zone if a zone ban has been imposed. So I would really like the Minister of Justice here today to inform me whether a person residing in the ban zone, for example. must participate in activities for political expression. It can, for example, be done. be demonstrations or meetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151707	Now it's people camping, so that's why they're not resident. You can walk through the area, and you can stay in the area, but you can't stay in the area like that. You can move through the area. If we were to think of the situation of having jobs where a zone ban had been imposed, we would have to look after it and go back out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151734	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151734-2	If you are now a Danish citizen who is homeless and you get a zone ban for up to 2 years and you are subsequently offered a residence in Copenhagen where you have a zone ban, how can you move around? It's still unclear to me. So, do you have to take part in a demonstration or a political meeting, for example, or do you have to take part in a religious ceremony? It could be a high Mass, it could also be a church act as a funeral or a wedding. I was thinking maybe the Justice Minister could tell me about this today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151809	Well, you can't stay. You can walk through the zone, you can shop, but you can't stay in the zone for long. And if you get a zone ban in an entire municipality, you can't stay there or camp there. If you have an apartment, an apartment, you don't camp there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151836	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151841	If I am now Danish homeless in Copenhagen it could also be another municipality and therefore have no residence itself and can not go home to my family either, because they may live in Jutland, or because I am upset with them, how am I supposed to sleep without getting into carambola with this camp ban?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151903	I would like to refer to page 3 of paragraph 2.1.1.4 which states in the third paragraph how the word camp should be understood and what a camp is. There are slightly different views. It's not like that. It's a concrete assessment. It's basically enough to lie down with your mattress and sleeping bag to say it's a camp. If you start to establish yourself with tarpaulins and equipment and it may also be that there is a clutter around this • yes, then one person may well constitute an insecure camp. But if the individual homeless person lays down on some cardboard or in a sleeping bag or on a mattress, it is not, as a rule, enough to call it a camp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151951	Mrs Zenia Stampe wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116151954	I'm sorry I forgot to press. I welcome that answer and I would like to ask whether the Minister for Justice will be sympathetic to the possibility of clarifying this even more, because that is also one of the points we see in the answers to the hearings, that is to say that it is not sufficiently clarified. In any case, there are very many Danish homeless people who do not know what they can do, and there are some who do not dare to sleep at all because they think that the ban is about lying horizontally. Well, there are also some who sleep, but then they get up and sleep because they are not covered by that ban. For us, it will certainly be quite crucial that we clarify what this means, so that the Danes who end up on the street for inscrutable reasons and do not have a place to live will not be covered by this ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152042-2	After all, it is an unfortunate event for those who now stand and do not have a place to live, and that is why we must of course be as precise as we can. I should like to contribute to the fact that we can make this even clearer in committee or, at least, to the fact that we are getting up in committee, what is missing here. There are a large number of cases here, and if they are not exhaustive, we have to see if we can make it clearer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152104	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152108	Thank you. I want to hear what the Minister of Justice will do to make sure there is no discrimination here. Because I think that it is concealed between the lines that it is particularly foreign homeless people who want to be killed, just as in the proposal that we are also going to deal with later today, about insecurity-building begging, which has been targeted at foreign beggars. So how is the Minister of Justice going to make sure that there is no discrimination in relation to this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152143-2	Two things: The reason we have introduced the law of begging and this law at all is that there has been a problem with travelling criminals who have lived in camps and have been begging for it is reality. Then we make a law, and that law applies to everyone, because all people are equal before the law, and it also applies to the Danish homeless. Then, of course, I have a belief that our authorities do not, of course, discriminate. Well, I've got some questions about this, and I'm very surprised that you think that right here, our police and others should be very discriminatory. I take this as a complete condition that, of course, they do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152225	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152225-2	I fully agree with the Minister for Justice on that. And as a starting point, I also have great faith in our authorities... there should be no doubt about that at all. However, in relation to insecurity-building begging, it has been necessary to have a meeting with, I think it was the Commissioner's intention to insist that equality should apply to the law. So could you imagine a similar meeting in connection with the implementation of this legislation? That was one question. The second is very short: in relation to the camp it should not necessarily be an insecure camp. It must be a camp that must be suitable Could it not be clarified in the comments what it takes to make it really insecure, which is what the government wants to go along with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152318-2	I think that in the fourth paragraph on page 3, we are trying to make it quite clear, but again, as I also said to Mrs Zenia Stampe, I have no problem with the fact that we are trying as hard as we can to make it as clear as possible, and if that is an option in committee, I think we should certainly pursue that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152336	We thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152358	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152402	Thank you. I would like to start by making it quite clear that the government fully agrees with the proposers that it is totally unacceptable when we see that gangs ravage the streets and fight each other in the midst of our residential areas. Peaceful citizens must be able to walk on the streets without fearing for their lives or ability. Denmark must be a safe and secure place to be. Therefore, since I took office as Minister of Justice, it has been a top priority for me to fight gangs and bikers. It is my basic view that in that fight we must use all the tools we can use to put an end to the gangs' unbeing. This also applies to the possibilities offered by the Constitution to dissolve a bickering or gang grouping, and I fully agree with the intentions behind the proposal that gangs should be combated by any means. If the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, it is for the simple reason that the Attorney General informed me at the beginning of November that there is a basis for proceeding with a case of dissolution of the Loyal to Familia gang group. And that's why I asked the Attorney General to prepare a case for the dissolution of the gang. The work is now in full swing, and the case is expected to be completed in the first half of 2018. It is absolutely essential that the matter is properly prepared so that we create the conditions for a positive outcome. The whole reason why we, who want to ban the gang, want to make a case is, of course, that the case, seen with our eyes, should end well. In this context, account must be taken of the fact that a number of pending criminal proceedings are being conducted against members of the gang which could have a significant impact on the resolution proceedings. According to the motion for a resolution, the government must take the initiative to ban all gangs and groups registered with the National Research Centre and to initiate proceedings against them for their dissolution. So, with the case of the dissolution of the LTF, we are entering completely new ground. We do not have in Denmark a contrast to, for example, Denmark. More recently, Germany has tried to break up an association by judgment, and it is almost 100 years since the end of the proceedings before the courts. It is important to bear in mind that a concrete assessment of evidence must be made in relation to each grouping. That is why we cannot cut all the groups together, and we shall start by putting all our powers in the matter of the LTF. However, I agree with the intention behind the proposal, and I have also said from the outset that the LTF case for me is a test case, because I fully agree that if the LTF ends up being banned, we must look at whether other groupings can be dissolved. The Constitution allows an association to be provisionally prohibited, but it follows from the Basic Law that if an association is provisionally prohibited, an immediate action must be taken against the association for the dissolution of the association. This means, therefore, that the prosecution must be prepared to take a resolution case when the association is provisionally banned, and we are not yet there. Police and public prosecutors are working hard to prepare the case, and that is a great deal of work, because it is a comprehensive piece of material that needs to be collected and assessed and that must ultimately be presented to the courts. It is absolutely essential that the process is thorough and proper, otherwise we are simply in danger of losing the case. On the day that the Attorney General announces that there is a basis for the dissolution and the material is ready, the matter must of course be brought forward as soon as possible, and if the courts reach the conclusion that the LTF can be dissolved under the Constitution, we shall see, as I said, whether other groupings can also be dissolved. While the police are working with the investigation of the current case, the Ministry of Justice is working with a bill on the legal effects of the dissolution of an association, so that we ensure that a dissolution becomes as effective as possible, and we see among other things. the penalty for continuing a disbanded union by e.g. to wear backmarks or recruit members to the association. A dissolution is not a miracle cure against the gangs' unbeing; the people behind the gangs do not disappear because the gang is dissolved, but a ban on the LTF will be groundbreaking. With the ban in hand, the police will be able to go after the gang members alone because of their affiliation and will not, as today, have to prove other kinds of crime. For example, the police can take action against the mere membership of the gang, recruitment of new members, use of the association's logo, etc. It makes it a great deal more effective if an ordinary street patrol can strike down on, for example. the use of backmarks at Blågårds Plads, without the need to collect evidence that something criminal is going on through a lengthy investigation. That is why, of course, we must also use that tool. But back to the resolution itself. When we cannot support it, it is because it is huge resources that need to be spent just doing the case against the LTF. So having to do this to everyone will make it a very difficult manageable material, which is why we are now starting with the LTF, and forward-looking I am also willing to look at other groupings.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152920	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116152924	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I get curious about several things when I hear the Minister. First, I think politicians should take the lead. We must take the lead, and if we really believe in a ban, I think we should also use the option provided for in the paragraph. 3 and simply say that we do it for the time being, and then we test that option. But I am also a little curious to actually clarify the last thing the Minister says in his speech, and this is the fact that only this case against this particular gang, which the Attorney General is currently investigating, will seize very large resources. I would like to hear the Minister: if, now, the Danish People's Party makes an amendment to our own resolution and says that it is no longer all the gangs that are in the register, but only the particular gang, will the Minister agree to a provisional ban on that gang?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153022-2	It wouldn't be good if I did, because then I think we're gonna lose the case. I agree with the questioner that we could just now say that we ban the gang, but at the same time, when we use the provisions of the constitution and ban it, we must raise the matter in court. In other words, if we did it now, we would not have the matter ready, and we have no interest in banning grouping until we have the matter ready. The second we have the case ready, of course, we must ban it and then we can do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153048	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153048-2	I think the Minister should be a little more ambitious on his behalf. Well, we're back in the summer vacation when the minister warns that this is going to be investigated by the Attorney General, and we're half a year back in time. It may well be that we are entering new ground, but we simply have to push these gangs as much as possible, and that would be a great advantage in our view if we were politically to take the lead instead of putting the system in front of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153116-2	Yeah, but is this about politically marking something, or is it about winning? For me, it's about winning, and I don't think we're gonna win this case unless we have the best possible basis. Because I think that for decades now we have been fighting gangs and other bikers in one way, in the other and in the third way, and then I think we are waiting for the few months until the matter is finally ready. I think we share the objective, although we may have a slightly different view of the way there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153144	We thank the Minister for Justice and move on to the rapporteur with Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153152	The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to ban a number of gangs and groups with a view to their dissolution, according to Paragraph 78 (1) of the Constitution. 2 and 3. First of all, I would like to say that we in the Social Democratic Party fully agree with the proposers that criminal gang groups do not belong in Denmark. The fear and insecurity created by the gangs in relation to ordinary citizens is not reasonable, and we have seen it over and over again. For me it is particularly strong that last year I was approached by a number of parents in Odense, whose children on their way home from school were suddenly caught in one of Black Army's power demonstrations in broad daylight in the middle of a busy street. There the members of the gang gathered and showed their back marks in a demonstration of power. It doesn't take much imagination to imagine how those kids felt. On their school roads there were suddenly crowded with gang members, and with the gang members the police had appeared in large numbers. The children had to seek refuge in a library and at locals who opened their doors so that the children could enter. So this is happening in Denmark. This happened in Odense, and since then we have seen several similar cases at Nørrebro in Copenhagen, in Aarhus, in Slagelse, on Lolland, in Næstved and several other cities. This happens, dear friends, while the measured insecurity among the Danes increases, and therefore we must address the problem. It's our responsibility. It is our duty as members of parliament. We have done this with the gang package and, as the police tell us, when we visit them, it has been absolutely crucial to putting a foot in the door of the criminals. We must continue as long as the criminal groups create great insecurity. In the past, both I and my party have been sceptical about what a ban would have of effect, but I have to say that I have personally changed my position after I have spoken to several former gang members and with our German politicians in the field of justice. They agree that the removal of the back marks is of great importance to the attraction to the groupings and to the flock mentality of which they live. In particular, it is something that the defectors from gang groups and biker groups say they have used strategically to attract new members. In addition to that, we have been concerned in the past by my party that a ban would render the initiatives in the various gang packages ineffective. It has happened now that we have received a minister's answer which clearly and unequivocally says that it has no significance in relation to the continued operation of the gang packages. That is why the Social Democrats believe that we should illegal the gangs. But if we cannot support the proposal here today, it is because the legal basis must be in order and there is no point in illegalting without it being held in court. As the Minister for Justice said, it will lead directly to judicial review if we adopt it here, and that is why we believe that the right thing to do is to test the case of the Attorney General in the courts with a thoroughly processed indictment and with the evidence that can actually also hold, instead of doing what many of us, I think, feel, feel and just make a ban in this Chamber today. In these words, we do not support the proposal here today, but we support the intention and hope that we will reach the goal together.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153554	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153602	Thank you. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Naser Khader, who is preoccupied with important meetings elsewhere. Nor does it matter, because we are in complete agreement with the Conservative People's Party and, moreover, with the comments made by the Minister. What the proposers want is to ban the gangs registered in the National Investigation Centre. I saw that very, very much liked to happen. And I would love it to happen immediately, but it just can't. But let me begin by saying that the gangs must, of course, be combated. We do not need to spend Parliament's time emphasising that. This government has put forward 47 proposals here for the last six months on the fight against gangs, and one of them is now referred to as a ban on the LTF. However, Section 78 of the Constitution stipulates that it is possible to prevent associations if they seek to achieve their objectives by violence. Then they can disintegrate. However, it is very important to stress just what is stated in section 78. (3) to submit a request for an injunction against an association to the city court, it must accompany the application in the case itself. That is at least how I interpret Article 78 (1). 3. So, in other words, we cannot just ban associations here and now, and then maybe bring a case later. The two must go together. With that in mind, it is no wonder that the Minister of Justice would like the case against the LTF to be prepared first. The go-ahead has been given by the Attorney General, but it is also important that it is properly prepared. After all, it is not just the case that you have to prove that individual Members have committed crime. There must also be evidence of a certain right of association structure and that the association, like it, has a concerted practice which results in this violence. So it is absolutely not an easy matter, it is probably a sort of test case, we must say, given that it has not been tried for 100 years to ban an association in Denmark. So summa summarum is that I would very, very much like to see the proposals put forward by the proposers come true. However, I believe that this would be an illegal procedure and would result in the matter being lost. As such, the prohibition must be followed by a subpoena. And the Attorney General is making the application. Unfortunately, I was just about to say wait for the case to proceed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153841	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116153900	The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party implies, as it is written, a request for the government to take the initiative to temporarily ban all the gangs and groups registered with the National Research Centre and to bring proceedings against them for their dissolution under Paragraph 78 of the Constitution. 3. The associations referred to are associations, and now I quote Article 78 (1) of the Constitution. 2, which acts by or seeks to achieve their objectives by violence, incitement of violence or similar criminal acts affecting different thinking. After all, the Attorney General has examined several times in the past whether it would be possible to ban groups and has said every time that it is impossible to do so. Now the Attorney General has a different opinion, and when there is a trial, we have to see how the courts deal with the issue. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we have the feeling that it makes no sense to ban gangs unless we are sure that the case can be held in court. And it has proved difficult in the past, as I just mentioned. And if you raise a matter in haste and end up losing it, perhaps because you have not properly prepared it, you are in fact in danger of strengthening the groups that you do not want to strengthen. So in this way, we think that the thing about going to a temporary ban is really ill-thought-out and, in fact, a little irresponsible. Then we feel this way about a ban, if it is possible at all, and if the courts can even approve a ban, that is, of course, the way it is. It is also possible that this may have an effect on the fight against gangs, but we also feel that we would actually rather have the police and the prosecution spend their time fighting violent crime, drug crime, arms crime and other forms of serious crime instead of going and checking membership. And how do you do that at all? It's not exactly a handball club you're a member of here. It is, after all, a completely different structure and a completely different way of organizing itself. If this is about harassment or threats and a certain way of acting in this direction in the public domain, that is what is the offence, and that is what the police must go for, and of course the police must be able to crack down on that in the relevant situations. So we think this is an ill-thought-out proposal. We also think it is a populist proposal and we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116154151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116154213	One of the fundamental democratic rights is found in section 78. It gives citizens the right to form associations as long as the association does not function by violence and it has a legitimate purpose in mind. I think we can all agree that gangs like Loyal to Familia and all the other similar gangs do not have a peaceful and law-abiding aim in mind. We should not put up with gangs shooting at the streets and, in general, making it extremely uncomfortable to live on, for example. Nørrebro and other places where they create insecurity for citizens. It is groupings that work through crime and insecurity-building behaviour, and we must, of course, combat such groupings. The courts are actually preparing a case. The Attorney General has recently considered that there is a legal basis for bringing an action against Loyal to Familia in order to disband the gang. I think that, in respect of the Constitution, we should await the decision of the courts in this matter. The motion for a resolution calls for gangs and groups to be dissolved, and although it may seem attractive in a way and I fully agree that we must fight the gangs, I can have my doubts as to whether a ban on certain gang groups will actually have an effect. One can imagine that a ban on these groupings will be screwed without end. We ban one gang, after which the members gather in a new gang under a new name, and then we ban that gang, after which the members again gather in a new gang with a new name, etc. etc. The practical effect can be difficult to see because the gang members do not disappear because they dissolve a grouping. It is already illegal to be a criminal, and a ban on calling oneself something particular certainly does not remove criminal activities. The ban might send a signal that we are now doing something, but there is no need for signals; there is a need for measures that work. And there is something we can actually do in relation to the gangs and their criminal activities that will have an effect. The government has done a lot with the Minister of Justice at the forefront, and this suggests that the effort is working. In addition to that, we in the Liberal Alliance have proposed several rounds to eliminate some of the livelihoods of the gangs by legalizing cannabis. Legalization would remove some of the economic basis of existence by the fact that the gangs would no longer sit on a very lucrative market for them. Legalisation of cannabis would also remove a significant part of the gang's possible recruitment base, and legalisation could release police resources that could be used more effectively elsewhere. Finally, legalisation would help some of the most vulnerable in our society because we decriminalized their abuse while stopping the unreasonable hunt for the many people who use cannabis to relax or enjoy themselves, as we others do with a glass of wine or a beer a completely peaceful Saturday night. I agree that there is not a majority in the Folketing today to legalise cannabis, but I believe that the issue has a place in the debate on how we deal with these gangs. So the Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution because we do not believe it will have the desired effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116154535	There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116154545	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the proposers want to ban the gangs and groups in Denmark registered with the National Research Centre, and the intention is for those gangs and groups to be permanently dissolved. I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for their ambition to put an end to gang crime. I don't think any of us disagree with that would be a very good idea. In these years, gangs are becoming increasingly brutal in their fights for the lucrative hash market, and we also see that they are recruiting aggressively among young people as young as 12 years of age. It is important that we put a plug in the food chain to the gangs and completely remove their income base. In the alternative, for example, we think it would be a good idea to legalise hashish. We do not claim that it solves the whole gang problem, but we believe that law-abiding citizens who buy weeds for recreational purposes should have the opportunity not to contribute to the gang economy. We think it is important that citizens should be able to grow their weed plants themselves or that the state could stand for it, so that these criminal gangs and backers would not earn huge sums of money from it. Nevertheless, we are sceptical about this motion for a resolution, although we can say that we support the intention in it and think that it would be nice to have the gangs eliminated. Firstly, the criminal activities of the gangs are already illegal. This applies to the sale of drugs, the possession of illegal firearms and other activities. The question then is what a specific ban would solve. In Germany we have succeeded in banning gangs, but that does not mean that the gangs have disappeared. Secondly, we are dealing with a matter governed by the provisions of the Constitution on freedom of association, and legal experts agree that this is a difficult area, and that is why work has also been started to investigate whether Loyal to Familia can be made illegal. Thirdly, I would like to point out that, fortunately, the number of gang members is falling, just as crime is. In these years, we are experiencing the lowest connection to the biker and gang environment. Figures from the Ministry of Justice's Research Office show that by the end of 2016, there were almost 1,200 people associated with the biker and gang environment, and this is the lowest number since 2009. At the same time, we know that the vast majority who have ceased to be a rocker or a gang member have left the environment permanently. That is to say, we are doing something that works. Today we know where we have them; we know who is a member; and we know where they operate. That information is, after all, essential for preventive, re-socialising action. Last year we presented in the Alternative some suggestions on how to tackle gang action in Denmark. We did so in our play, which we called an alternative to gang life, where we among other things. proposes that more funds be allocated to the exit effort, that the exits be offered to all persons who are considered by the authorities to have a potential, and that gang members be divided into smaller groups, while the most criminals are kept isolated from the least criminals. It also proposes to improve conditions for prison officers and to include relatives and family members in the exit programmes so that they can support the individual throughout the process. If I am going to come back to this specific motion for a resolution that we are discussing today, I would like to say that I am actually concerned that if we vote in favour of it, we will lose the efforts that are well under way. I am concerned that a ban would mean that the possibility of preventing crime or of rehabilitating these people is lost because the gangs are actually simply going underground. I fear that we are losing knowledge of these networks, and I fear that we are losing the opportunity to take real action against them. I will, of course, wait with excitement for the legal assessment of the Attorney General in relation to the possible dissolution of, among other things. The gang Loyal to Familia and should conclude that there is a basis to dissolve the LTF and other gangs, for example. Well, then, it's a decision that we're going to back up. At the same time, however, we will have the concern that it will be more difficult to get to know the specific gangs. With those comments, we cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155103	In fact, I think this is a matter of respect for the Constitution, because I have not really heard anyone up here be against trying to break up Loyal to Familia, but the question is in what order. Freedom of association is, after all, one of the fundamental freedoms, but also a freedom which is conditional. Exceptions to that freedom can be made. It's in our constitution. However, it is also described in our constitution how such a thing should be dealt with, namely that it should be done in the courts. That is why I do not understand why a party such as the Danish People's Party, which usually defends our constitution and says that it is as it should be, and that no changes should be made to it, because it fully meets the purpose, cannot support us following the process described in the Constitution, namely that it is a court decision and not a decision taken here in Parliament. After all, it is not the Folketing that assesses whether the Constitution is respected and whether an association such as Loyal to Familia is a gang that meets the requirements of protection in the Constitution, or whether it falls within the requirements described in order for an association to be dissolved. It is the courts that make that assessment. Therefore, our opposition to this proposal is not about the substance but about the process. We want to follow the constitution and find it a little strange that the Danish People's Party, which in fact usually defends the Constitution, now chooses an alternative process in relation to the one described in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155245	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155249	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. As I have said, this is a brief comment because I just feel the urge to say that my party does not, of course, want to break the constitution. The Danish People's Party would be very opposed to this. In fact, in the observations made in the motion for a resolution, we argue precisely that we need to use the possibilities in the constitution to quickly bring about the dissolution of these gangs simply because we do not want them. I think, in fact, that the aim of most of the Members of this House, or at least a large part of them, may be the same, but that the way to do so may be slightly different. That is just what I wanted to clarify in the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155329	I just want to ask you back. Is it not up to the courts to assess what is in the constitution? According to the Constitution, it is surely not our task in the Folketing to assess what is within or outside the constitution, and unfortunately I think that is what the Danish People's Party is proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155351	We thank Mrs Zenia Stampe and the next rapporteur I see...
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155404	I just had to say hello from the SF I promised to say the comrades in the SF and say they don't support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155408	That is quite clear now. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155429	Last year the number of gang-related shootings went up. In several parts of the country there was a conflict between rival gangs who coldly and cynically used the public space to shoot at each other with great danger to ordinary people. We adopted gang packages, punishments, just as new initiatives and ideas were used to fight this gang thing. After a 2017 that in many ways illustrated the utter crazyness of criminal gangs with violence and strife dominated various areas, the time must have come for us now to try to take the happen in the other hand and do something that is of course new, but which in our view will have a noticeable effect on the gangs: let us try a ban. With the motion for a resolution here, the Danish People's Party wants gangs and groups registered with the National Research Centre to be dissolved. We want an interim ban on these groups to be imposed and, of course, that will lead to a trial in the courts. We see no doubt that violence and the incitement of violence are a key part of the gangs' ability to survive, and it is one of the very clear tools used by the gangs to intimidate and threaten and cause others to fear them and, in particular, in certain residential areas that need our help. With a ban, law enforcement will be able to take massive action against the gangs, from the removal and targeting of the gang symbols that create great insecurity in public spaces, especially in the ghetto areas, the heavily burdened residential areas where the gangs are located, to the possibility of confiscating the property and status symbols which the gangs have been scraped up to this day as a result of organised crime and black money. It will be a massive blow to the gangs, we believe, and it will help to make them less attractive to new young people who are in the gangs' peripheral zones to help prevent them from entering into organised crime. 'Cause it's not gonna be so exciting without these status symbols, and we're gonna have to stop recruiting these gangs somewhere. In the Danish People's Party we believe that it is politicians who should take the lead. I am well aware of the work being done by the Attorney General with a view to establishing a ban. But I think the most honest thing is that we as legislators, if we mean something by a ban on gangs, and we certainly do so in the Danish People's Party, clearly indicate that we believe in it so much that we are willing to impose a provisional ban, such as Paragraph 78 (1) of the Constitution. 3 allows us, with the clear assurance, that it will of course be tested subsequently at different courts. Politicians must very clearly indicate the direction, and it is also the right thing to do that, of course, we will adopt a ban here first before the trial. I think that this is just a brief comment to some of the rapporteurs who have been asked to speak, and it was wise when Article 78 of the Constitution was drafted at the time. I really think that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, even though we disagree with this particular case, referred to it quite nicely, because it offers a number of opportunities, but at the same time also imposes some limitations. In fact, I think that was a good thing to say and also shows that, in our opinion, our constitution takes account of this situation. However, I should like to thank you for your comments and thank you for the debate and to thank the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155830	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. So if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155849	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116155858	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative and Enhedslisten, as mentioned, aims to oblige the government to roll back the amendment of the law which, in June last year, tightened the penalties for insecurity-building begging. I understand that it is the opinion of the proposers that the amendment of the law has had a different effect from that expressed by several parties as a basis for their support for the law during the legislative process. Let me remind the authors that when the legislative amendment was adopted there were major problems with large groups of visitors who came to Denmark and camped in public places and among other things. Nourished by begging. They created insecurity and discomfort for both residents and passersby. One of the government's tools against the insecurity-building camps was to sharpen the penalty for insecurity-building begging a tool which was introduced with the support of a broad majority in the Folketing: the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. The draft law makes it clear that it is particularly disturbing for other people to be subjected to begging in pedestrian streets, at stations, in and at supermarkets and in public transport services, places where begging often occurs and that precisely this type of begging is insecure. I still think so, and it therefore joined a majority of the Folketing in adopting it. The proposers consider that the amendment of the law has proved to have two inappropriate and unintended effects. I do not agree with that and I would like to explain why. Firstly, the proposers state that it is an inappropriate and unintended consequence that beggars and homeless people who do not behave insecurely are punished by prison. To this I have to say that the draft law makes it very clear when begging is regarded as insecure: it does so when it takes place in pedestrian streets, at stations, in or at supermarkets or in public transport. It is even clear from the observations made by the draft law that it is, regardless of whether the begging in the particular case has created insecurity. Such objective criteria provide the police, the prosecution, the courts with the best framework for the application of the law and help to avoid unintended consequences of enforcement. Therefore, it can hardly be considered an accidental consequence when people begging such places are punished according to the rules of insecurity-building begging. Then you can agree or disagree with the rules, but it cannot be said to be unintended, because we have written that clearly. Secondly, the authors state that the law may be administered discriminatoryly. I would like to make it clear once again that the law is equal for all. The police must, of course, abide by the rules of their work, and this means, among other things, that there must be no discrimination. The Copenhagen Police Department has stated that action against begging has not been organised in a way where only or primarily criminal prosecution of foreigners takes place. However, the fight against insecurity-building begging has been based in particular on reviews, and the reports received by the Copenhagen Police have largely been found to relate to begging carried out by foreigners. Having said that, I would like to look again at the background to the amendment of the law. It is absolutely crucial that we in Denmark can travel safely in the public space. Insecurity-building begging does not belong in our society. It is a clear priority for the government and for me as Minister of Justice to take decisive and decisive action against insecurity-building behaviour. With the legislative amendment that the proposers want rolled back, we sent a clear signal to both potential travellers and everyone else that insecurity-building begging is not accepted in this country. This is a signal that should not be weakened and therefore the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160258	I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for the time being. Then there is a question from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160305	Thank you. I think it is interesting that, when we had consultations on this matter, it seemed as if the rapporteur from the Left was surprised that there was this clear definition of insecurity-building begging, just as the Minister of Justice rightly says, namely that it is interpreted as insecurity-building if it takes place at stations, in public transport, in front of shopping centres, etc. That is just not what the debate was when the bill was at first reading. Then questions were asked such as: What is considered to be a source of insecurity? Well, that's if you're being followed by someone and you can't get rid of him, for example. Someone who runs after you with a mug. There was clearly an experience that the insecurity-building element was something that had to be experienced, and it is not. Just as the Minister of Justice says, it is described quite factually what it means that it is insecure. And thus the debate on the bill at that time was different than the law looks. It is also a bit strange that it is not insecure if a group of beggars sit down here in front of Christiansborg; no matter how insecure they may be, it is not insecure according to the bill. So I would like the Minister for Justice to address the debate that was at the time when we adopted the bill. And then I actually fully acknowledge that the Minister of Justice has always correctly explained through the process what this law contains.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160443	Thank you. It is important to stick to it, because it is also sometimes almost forgotten in the debate that it is not because begging has suddenly become legal, but with this change it was so that you tightened up. I do not know whether I should interpret the debate from then on, because the bill looked like the law is now. I think it is really important that we set objective criteria for what is insecure, but I also think that many people in the debate are now able to move into it a little bit, of course, influenced by the fact that we saw some places, especially in Copenhagen, where it was very violent; you saw public spaces that were virtually used as toilets. It was really uncomfortable for people. I just don't think I should go in there and assess and interpret what the individual member of the House put the emphasis on at first reading. I'm gonna be honest with you and tell you, I haven't been in there listening to this before this discussion. I just think I have said actually and clearly that these are objective criteria. It's not about some people feeling insecure. It is about the fact that we have defined what is insecurity-building.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160556	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160558	Well then, I quote the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister said: 'Now we are putting it in a form in which we have qualified the purpose clause, so that it is not just any Danish homeless person who puts out his hand, which in principle risks 14 days of unconditional imprisonment, but so that it is targeted what can be called insecure begging. Then I just ask: does the Minister of Justice agree that if any Danish homeless person who puts out his hand stands in a pedestrian street, at a station, in a public transport, it is insecure according to the law and thus not in accordance with what the Prime Minister said?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160640	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160642	No, because now I am asked a question where you take a certain attitude for granted. For what the Prime Minister said is absolutely right, in other words, where he says that it is not any Danish homeless person who is at risk of 14 days in prison. That is absolutely correct. But if the homeless person does so in the four places where we have defined it as insecurity-building, then he risks it. But that's not what the Prime Minister said. He said that it is not anyone who puts out his hand that is at risk. Anyone doesn't, because it depends on where you do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160715	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160719	That's a lot, I'd say fanciful reading of the quote from the Prime Minister. When you read the quote from the Prime Minister, following on from the debate that took place at the end of last summer's debate, the idea is clear: that it is not any Danish homeless person who puts out his hand, that is to say begs, who in principle risk 14 days of unconditional imprisonment, but that it is targeted at what can be called insecure begging. So it really should be understood that insecure begging is defined as begging certain places, and it has nothing to do with the way you beg? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160804	I am incredibly honoured that both the previous questioner and the current one are confident that I have such great abilities that I can understand what people have thought when they have said certain things and how they have meant it all the way. I can't tell you what people have been thinking and why. I can only say that it is true that it is not just any homeless person who puts out his hand that could risk 14 days in prison, because it is about where you beg. I have to stand up for what I am putting forward on behalf of the government and what the draft law applies, and now I am opposed to it being repealed, and I do not believe that at any time I have contributed to any ambiguity as to what the rules are in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160850	If we take the Prime Minister's quote that it is targeted what can be called insecure begging, then we cannot get confirmation from the Minister for Justice here today that there is nothing in the legislation called insecurity-building begging there is something called begging. It goes without saying, when you look at the comments to the law, that it is a question of insecurity-building begging, regardless of whether the begging in the particular case has created insecurity. I mean, it's about insecure begging, even when it's not insecure. It is, of course, the title of the bill which the Prime Minister used to wrap in that it was not a tightening of the begging law that was supposed to hit all beggars, but only some certain foreign beggars when they were doing so-called insecurity-building begging. But it was a wrong interpretation, it was a misleading interpretation from the Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116160944	It's a mystery to me why you're busy shooting at the Prime Minister here, because I really don't think he said anything wrong. After all, we have made legislation for those of us who have made it where, on the basis of objective criteria, we have assessed when it is insecure, and that is if you are begging in certain places. That's why it's not just any homeless person in any place. That's if you do it in certain places. Then you can agree or disagree with it and think it is too much and that it should be human insecurity and so on. Now we have just defined some objective criteria, and from there the law must be enforced, and that makes it easier to enforce the law; we have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161019	With that, we thank the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161028	The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to roll back L 215 to tighten up the penalties for begging, for which there was a majority when we adopted it just over six months ago, and I know that the majority has not changed since then. Betleri or begging has been illegal in Denmark since 1860, and the reason why it is illegal in Denmark is that we do not want any Danish citizen to have to beg in order to be fed. That was why it was introduced then in 1860. Thus there is nothing new about the criminality of begging in Denmark, and I think that we should also be proud of living in a country where we do not want people to feed through begging, but where we have a social safety net that can ensure that you are helped if you have a bad economy. Having said that, it is relatively new that foreigners come to Denmark to beg. The globalised society and the open European borders have not only paved the way for the free movement of workers, but also made people come to Denmark to feed themselves by begging. This has never been the intention of free movement with social democratic spectacles, and unfortunately, traveling beggars have brought a number of challenges, both in terms of insecurity and hygiene, as we have mentioned earlier in today's debate. The foreign beggars spend the night and camp in the backyards and recreational areas, and I would say that I was very impressed when I was contacted some time ago by a mother who had for a long time experienced a grouping of foreign beggars living at the local supermarket, and they stayed overnight in their courtyard, a backyard, and this created great insecurity. Among other things: She dared not put her bike into the yard when she came home in the evening, but what made the impact for her was the day when her little child came up from the farm's sandbox covered in human feces. It's just one of the many stories that describes what it is, it does to society when people don't have a place to live and they feed themselves through begging. That was also the reason why in 1860 it was made illegal. It is not that we in the Social Democratic Party have little sympathy for the people who come here and beg, because we do, but it is that we also have a society and some citizens who we have a responsibility to take care of, for example, this mother who experienced what is not fair when you live in a quite ordinary housing facility and have a backyard and a sandbox in which children can play. When we were with a parliamentary committee a few years ago, among other things. Romania to focus on trafficking, the message from the aid organisations was very clear, and they called for us in Denmark to make it less attractive to trade people here, for example people who are traded for begging, and it is happening in Denmark and in other countries, that is, that people are traded to sit on the streets and beg. In the social democracy we have listened to the wishes of mayors and citizens who are experiencing begging create problems, and we have listened to what they said to us when we were in Romania, and that is why we have supported the tightening up of penalties for begging, and we continue to do so. With these words, we cannot support the proposal here, which we are debating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161410	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161413	Thank you. I would like to read the title of the bill first, that is: Reduction of the penalty for insecure begging. This was the whole discussion that took place when we first dealt with the proposal at the time. The comments then state: "Tiggery can be punished on the basis of the proposal without prior warning when it takes place in one of the said places. This is true regardless of whether the begging in the particular case has created insecurity. The reason why we are proposing to withdraw this amendment to the law today is, of course, one of the reasons. A reply to a question at the time when the rapporteur has been quoted as saying that it is the insecurity-building and therefore not the passive form of charge that one would like to punish. But that is exactly what can be punished today. You can sit completely still in front of a S-train with a cup of quiet, without being insecure but nevertheless you will be sentenced to punishment. Mrs Trine Bramsen is also quoted as saying: 'No, in the insecurity-building there is, of course, that there is some kind of aggressive character, and I can give an example from my local Netto a few weeks ago. Here there was one person who ran after all the traders who came out and touched them, and it had a very aggressive character. It is insecurity-building trust. But that is not what the law says, and I would like to hear a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161541	Yes, the rapporteur forgot to tell us where these quotes come from. They come from the first reading, and there is a reason why we in the Folketing have a first reading, a second reading and a third reading. It is quite true that at first reading we were not quite keen on the definition of insecurity-building begging. That is why, immediately after those statements, we put a written question to the Minister, which follows on from the legislative procedure, and which was answered, and where it is clear that begging in front of a supermarket, which was the example I mentioned in the first reading's rapporteur's speech, is insecure. But it is the place that determines insecurity, and we have taken note of that in the Social Democratic Party, and that is why we chose to support the proposal, and we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161633	It is quite true that it is from first reading. Another quotation from the first reading from Mrs Trine Bramsen is: the definition of the insecurity-building is the same as we have once dealt with in relation to this camp ^ so for betleri: when it has an aggressive character, when there are some who follow it bothered by it, when there are reviews and you assess the nature of the betlerie and how it has happened, and it will of course always be the judgement of the courts with a description of the situation. But it is very clear that it is the insecurity-building and therefore not the passive form of trust. In this amendment to the law, it is not up to the courts to decide whether it is insecurity-building. It's clear. What puzzles me in the support of the Social Democrats for this is that it was clearly the insecure part that the Social Democrats went for, but that is not what the amendment of the law is about. That is why I am surprised that the rapporteur will not be helping to reshape this amendment so that it really is about what, among other things, is going to happen. Social democracy talked about, namely the insecurity-building, thereby helping to roll back the change of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161733	When we do not want to roll back the change of law, it is because we have problems with begging. It is clear that when we make legislation in Denmark that is how we do it, at least in the Social Democratic Party, we have to make legislation that also lasts when it ends up in the courts and that is not contrary to our constitution or that discriminates. That's why the Ministry of Justice has ended up on the model that we can see also works. There are a large number of reviews on that basis. It is quite true that those quotations come from the first reading, and the reason why we chose to ask in-depth questions about the very definition of the insecurity-building was that we would be quite precise on what that means. That is why we have both a second and a third reading after the first reading. Otherwise we might as well abolish them. But, after all, we believe that these are the right tools that we have ended up with, and also the tools that can be done when we want to address the problem that is real and that exists out there and that the mother in question, to whom I referred in my example, is experiencing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161838	Then it's mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161841	When we ask questions about this, it is because Mrs Mette Frederiksen said in the closing debate on 31 May last year during an exchange of words with the Prime Minister: '... I have been against a change of law which would mean that a Danish homeless person who sticks the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee would be criminalised. If we can avoid that, of course, there is support on our part. After all, it took two days and then we had an urgent reading of this bill, and then the rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramssen, said: yes, it may be, but it is because the bill is about insecurity-building begging and it was aggressive behaviour that Mrs Josephine Fock has just read out. That is why the draft law could still be supported. Now it is not about that anyway, because it was misunderstood at first reading of L 215, which was the then draft law, and the rapporteur did not take the floor during either the second or third reading. My question is simply: then we are back to the original argument that it should not hit a Danish homeless person who sticks the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee. Does Social Democracy still mean that, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116161957	As can also be seen from the written questions in the legislative process, we have of course asked about the Danish homeless. We've asked about the Hus Forbi salesman. It's an opportunity for all Danish homeless people to sell it. That group is protected from the provisions of this bill. This has been important to us, and that is why we have also asked questions about it. We are of the opinion that, although we were somewhat confused by what the Prime Minister said during the parliamentary debate, there has still been a need to strengthen the legislation so that the problem could be solved. Although the Prime Minister did not make a very clear statement, which we responded to, we have asked a question and clarified what the definitions in this context are, and on that basis we have done it this way: do we think that this is a reasonable piece of legislation? Yes, we think so, and that is why we have ended up voting in favour. If we had thought what was landed on was quite unreasonable, we would have voted against it at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116162104	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116162106	Even if we assume that the Prime Minister was not precise, it must be said that Mrs Mette Frederiksen was exemplary precisely, namely by saying: '... I have been against a change of law which would mean that a Danish homeless person who sticks the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee would be criminalised. If we can avoid that, of course, there is support on our part. ▪ This bill criminalized just a Danish homeless person who stabbed the cup rather than begging. So did the Social Democratic Party misunderstand the bill and express its support at first reading on a false basis? Has the Social Democratic Party just subsequently changed its attitude or what, compared to the fact that one now thinks that one can have a begging law that can hit a Danish homeless person who sticks out his hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116162154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116162155	Well, I kind of think I've answered that. After all, there was a reason why we put the written questions at first reading. And it is clear that we in the Social Democratic Party do not want to make illegal legislation. We want to make legislation that holds in court, and there is the Ministry of Justice just those who can figure out how to formulate things and put things in law so that they also stick when they end up in court. We have taken note of that, so we have ended up supporting the proposal on the basis of which it is based, that is, because that is what could be done without discrimination, for example, which I do not think any of us in this Chamber want.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116162235	Then we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116162247	Thank you. The proposal from the Alternative and Enhedslisten intends to roll back the legislation made in the summer of 2017 that tightened the penalty for begging. And I can say at the outset that we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution. In the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution state that those who have been convicted primarily following the amendment of the rules are foreigners who are characterised by discrimination on the part of the two parties as a result of the change of rules. When we changed these rules in the summer, it was because of the fact that there were travellers homeless for other EU countries who were nurtured by begging in public spaces, and we did not think that was right. It cannot be said that the citizens of other EU countries who feel that they can achieve better living conditions by begging in Denmark, for example, compared to other EU countries, come here and continue to feed on something that is actually illegal. For yes, this has been illegal for really, very many years before the rules were changed in the summer of 2017. There was nothing new about that. In fact, I have no objection to a Dane sitting there begging, although I think it is sad and even though I think it must be an unfortunate fate. However, I do not think it is fair that the citizens of other EU countries can just go to Denmark and beg away, as we saw last year. We must take care of our own first, just as we expect others, of course, to take care of theirs. I am well aware of this and we were well aware when we changed the rules that we cannot necessarily solve the whole problem of the regulation that was made. It was a step in the right direction and a step that actually led us closer to the goal. The best thing would be to say to the people who come here and beg: You cannot do that in Denmark, and therefore we are now sending you home to your own country, and then your own country must take responsibility to look after you. It can't be something we have to deal with. And then, of course, we should take care of our own homeless people. I also think that this debate has been half-hearted in many ways. Because while there are parties that have actually tried to make legislation, and it is wide across the middle, I really think that some other parties have escaped a little too easily. And I hope that those who have opposed this punishment, and here I am aiming particularly at those who have tabled the motion for a resolution, will reveal several of their own solutions when they have the opportunity to come to the floor. I think that would be appropriate. I do not think the Danes should live with people begging to come here from other countries, and I am really curious to hear what sanctions the proposers could imagine there would be in this area or whether, for that matter, the ban that has been in place for a very, very many years would be lifted against begging. In fact, I think that this has been a debate which has been marked by the fact that, as I said, some parties have taken action in relation to a real problem that has been, because we have seen real problems for many people in this area, and then some have said that it is bad and that they now have to find hair in the soup because they do not agree. It hasn't been fair. I can tell you that we in the Danish People's Party cannot support this resolution and we stand by the legislation we made in the summer of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116162645	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116162705	Thank you for the floor. I remember a number of mornings back in the summer of last year, when during the week I passed Trinitati's Church here in Copenhagen on my way to work. At the church a large crowd had camped, and everywhere it flowed with bottles and garbage. It was one of the groups of foreigners who had settled in what some popularly called a Roma camp. Shortly thereafter, I read in Berlingske how some of these groups used church areas and our parks as toilets, while they acquired themselves by organized begging, crime and bottle collection. One day I got enough, and I reported the camp at Trinitati's Church to the police. This was the start of a process that contributed to this law we are debating today about increased punishment for insecurity-building begging. I don't usually be proud of a law that punishes harder, but to some extent I would say I'm proud of this law because it has helped solve a problem that I don't think we should see in the Danish streets. The possibility of clearing the so-called insecurity-building camps already existed, and it had been implemented earlier this year, and this law on insecurity-building begging then contributed further to solving the overall problem. Since the introduction of the law, it has contributed to punishing and countering the insecurity-building begging that some cities, among other things. Copenhagen, experienced. Both the 20 defendants and 18 convicted persons bear this out. Thus, as far as I can see, we no longer experience the problem of criminals beating camps at churches, begging, committing crime or, as we could also read about, demanding protection money from Danish homeless people. It is no secret that the law was introduced because we had problems with, among others, last year. large groups of visiting foreigners who came here to beg and acquire themselves by crime and other things. However, I do not agree with the fact that the law should apply disproportionately to foreigners, because, as the Minister says, the law applies to everyone regardless of nationality or background. This is the way Danish society is now. If Danes were to engage in insecure begging in the same way, then the law would also apply to them in exactly the same way. The emphasis was placed on this when the law was debated and passed. I also remember debating this in the Danish Parliament, and we have emphasized this in the police circles. Thus the Copenhagen Police tells that they do not use the law in some attempt to persecute foreigners it would be absolutely absurd, even if that is a little what is being proposed here. The police report that the fight against insecure begging has been based on reviews, and the reviews have been found to relate mainly to insecure begging carried out by foreigners. The position of the Left has not changed since the Act was adopted in 2017. The law was necessary when it was introduced, and we in the Left still think it is. That is why the Left cannot support the proposal for a roll-back of the law to tighten up the penalties for insecurity-building begging. And I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they share our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163030	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There was just a request for a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163039	Thank you. What we have proposed as the proposers here is that we believe that the basis on which the law was created was not correct, because it was constantly focused on the insecurity-building. And that's how we've been told or confirmed by the Minister of Justice today that it's about where you're standing. If you, for example, standing in front of a station, it's per. definition insecurity-enhancing. Sir. Marcus Knuth himself said at first reading: "But we don't have a comprehensive problem... at least I don't know about Danish homeless people who follow that pattern, and therefore they won't be affected either, because they primarily sell House Past and they don't behave in a way that is insecure. I also remember that, in the conciliation we had, the rapporteur was told at one point that it was up to an assessment whether the begging that took place was insecurity-building. So does the rapporteur not agree that it was a misleading discussion that was in the Folketing at the time? It was laid down that the law we introduced was introduced because there were certain beggars who created insecurity, and it should then be possible to pursue an extra 14 days of unconditional imprisonment. However, no independent judgement has been made on the part of the courts, nor on the part of the police, nor, according to the rapporteur's assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163206	I would like to say that, first of all, I find myself very, very incomprehensible as to why we should stand and discuss a law that has been adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing. In other words, if it is so, every time a minority disagrees with a law that, in addition to having first, second and third readings, we must also call for a debate on a motion for a resolution to roll back a law adopted by a broad majority, I think it is a waste of our time in here. We could spend our time on something else. Because we have been through precisely these issues during the first, second and third readings. What I said about Danish homeless people was that Danish homeless people often acquire themselves by e.g. sale of the magazine House Over, and it is fully legal. But if the Danish homeless start to acquire by the kind of begging that has been done illegally with this law, they will violate the law. Of course, the law applies equally to everyone. That is exactly what the Minister of Justice was saying before: The law applies equally to everyone. We have just not seen a comprehensive pattern of Danish homeless people behaving in the way we have seen some groups of visiting foreigners do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163312	I think it is worth a great deal of Parliament's time if we have passed a law which subsequently turns out not to be what the majority of the Folketing wanted. That is certainly not what was debated. What was debated at the time was that people were looking for insecure begging. And I remember clearly the rapporteur from a conciliation meeting where we also had this discussion about what was then insecurity-building. Now the rapporteur of the Left also represents the Conservative People's Party, which is why I would like to read out a quote from the Conservative rapporteur, although I am aware that it is not the rapporteur of the Left, but the rapporteur of the Left. Naser Khader. Sir. Naser Khader said at the time: "It is only when you beg in a way that is insecure. It is not people who are peacefully begging for 5 kroner. It was, and still is, factually wrong. The rapporteur must surely agree that it is important that we have the right prerequisite for the laws we adopt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163403	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163405	I think we have a fine condition for this law too. Well, I can stand and read the whole law. It describes exactly what is legal and what is illegal, and I look forward to having a dialogue with the rapporteur when the rapporteur comes up here and speaks. But we had a massive problem. I can imagine that the rapporteur himself has walked up and down Strøget, or has experienced taking public transport and being charged with that, at least I have experienced that by people who came begging in a very unpleasant way. And that was also the case if you saw groups who, as I described here, had settled in one of these so-called Roma camps, where it flowed with garbage and where there were excrement and where part of the income came from begging. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163459	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163502	This motion for a resolution and L 215, which were dealt with as a matter of urgency before the summer recess, are not, after all, about camps or harassment or threats or anything else. It's all about begging, plain begging. And that is what we were saying, both at first reading and at second reading, namely that this is all about ordinary begging. And it has to be said that Mr. Marcus Knuth used some wordings that this wasn't about begging in a geographical location, but that it was about a certain behavior. And there you go, sir. Marcus Knuth then admits here today that it was wrong and that the bill was taken on the wrong basis. I find that problematic in principle. Well, it was both sir. Naser Khader and Mr. Marcus Knuth and Mrs Trine Bramsen, who took a position on the bill on the wrong basis. What if there had not been an urgent debate on this bill, but that there had actually been the normal deadlines where we could have had a thorough discussion, would the majority have been somewhere else? That is an important question. Following on from the quotes from the Prime Minister's speech in the closing debate that it should not be about any Danish homeless person who puts out his hand, I would say: yes, it should. And the wordings that Mr. Marcus Knuth and Mr. Naser Khader used the same wording as the Prime Minister used in the closing debate prior to the summer holidays 2017. So is there no democratic problem in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163619	Thank you. Now there's a pattern here where the same questioners come over and over again. That is perfectly permissible, but we also have speaking time, so I assume that one can get so sharp in one's questions when one has practiced so many times that one can actually stay within the time frame. That would be helpful, so I hope so. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163637	First of all, I do not believe in any way that we have a democratic problem. And as to whether the law has been inappropriate, I am at least aware that on the route that I go on when I am in Copenhagen during the week and go to and from work, I no longer see the extensive problem, which I saw in other parts of Copenhagen too, with these so-called Roma camps, where one among others. was nurtured by extensive organized begging. I don't see that in the streets anymore. Maybe I'm the one who's going in the wrong places, but as I see it, this law has helped solve a problem. It is not the only law that has contributed. The law, which allows the police to clear these camps, has also contributed significantly. So there are several things that have contributed. Thus I can see nothing but that this law has helped solve a problem that really, very many Danes felt insecure about. So, ask the Copenhagen Police Department how many reviews they have received, both about these so-called Roma camps and about insecure begging. And as the police, as I said in my speech here, they're reacting to reviews. They don't just go out and say, "Here's a man or a woman who looks like a foreigner, let's go after them." They respond to requests from Danes or others in the country who have approached the police because they have seen something that they are not happy about, and then the police react according to a law that we have implemented. And I certainly think, both when I read how many people have been charged and as I myself see the street picture, that the law has helped to make the situation in the street picture significantly better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163819	However, would the rapporteur not at least admit that when the rapporteur said that this was about certain behaviour, when there was begging, that that was what it was about, what it was really about where begging is going on, for example? in front of a supermarket or in a pedestrian street? And would the rapporteur admit that with the insecurity-building, which was indeed the title of the bill, it had nothing to do with the content and was simply pure spin, in order to cover up the fact that what it was really about was that, in general, the penalty for ordinary begging would be increased, both to foreign beggars and to beggars who are Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163856	As the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party made very clear, it has therefore been illegal for many, many years to beg in Denmark. We haven't made it illegal to beg in Denmark. We have lifted the penalty and changed some of the framework because we saw a problem. It could then be said that in some areas the problem was not as wide-ranging and therefore the law has defined a framework and some places where it applies. I just think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163925	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116163942	Thank you. The alternative and Enhedslisten have tabled this motion for a resolution following the debate on Bill No. L 215 of the Assembly 2016-17. It was an examination of a legislative proposal, which was an urgent one, and when you look back at how it took place in purely procedural terms, it has to be said that the way in which it was done was scandalous. We had a closing debate on 31 May 2017, when it was announced that the government would now come up with a bill, and it was presented by the Prime Minister as if it were a proposal that would not hit any Danish homeless person who would stick out his hand, but that it was targeted what one might call insecure begging. Then Mrs Mette Frederiksen from the Social Democratic Party replied: "... I have been against a change of law which would mean that a Danish homeless person who sticks the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee would be criminalised. If we can avoid that, of course there is support on our part. Then we had the first reading two days later, when it became clear that what was the content of the bill was not insecure begging. That was the title of the bill, a misleading title, for what it was all about was to sharpen the penalty for ordinary begging, which would also hit a Danish homeless, a homeless person with Danish citizenship. And we heard at first reading how both the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader, the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Marcus Knuth, and the Social Democratic rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen, wrongly expressed their support for the bill. Now we are going to have a debate today and an explanation that, despite all the explanations, it was not really behavior. It was when the begging took place in these specific places that there was to be a punishment sharpening, namely in pedestrian streets and in front of supermarkets and train stations etc. etc. But it still remains that there was a huge misunderstanding about what the bill really contained in the short days when the bill was dealt with in this Things. And it says something about how important it is that we in the Folketing have some proper consultation deadlines and have proper time to deal with a legislative proposal so that it does not become the time of juks, as it was actually in connection with the examination of L 215. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. First of all, because we believe that the legislation was adopted in an urgent procedure which was unworthy of this Things and, secondly, because we simply lacked an explanation from the rapporteurs who misread the legislative text, why they chose to support the draft law, which we did not have at second reading or at third reading. As far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, we believe that begging is not punishable at all, that begging should not be punishable at all. Quite ordinary begging, where you just stick the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee, should not be criminal. It is clear that it must be criminal if people are harassed or threatened or otherwise behave inappropriately in public spaces towards other people. It must, of course, be criminal, and it is already criminal. There has also been a discussion about camps where Enhedslisten's view is that it is not intended for foreign citizens and other EU citizens who come here to live in camps in Copenhagen. No, they must be helped in a dignified way so that they can go home to the countries where they are citizens, and that can be done, for example. is done at transit rooms, transit houses, as you see in Copenhagen. Moreover, as I said in the debate on an earlier draft law today, we should also look at the rules governing the free movement of workers. Because there are rules on what to live up to in order to be able to stay in Denmark if you are a migrant worker. For example, you have to... be active job seekers, you have to be able to document what you have to prove that you are self-supporting by presenting a cash sum. There are some rules today which mean that we do not need to adopt these absurd, disproportionately restrictive restrictions in a populist rush, as happened up to the summer holidays, but that we can actually start from some of the legislation that is already there without resorting to further tightenings that affect both beggars, who are foreign, but who also hit beggars who have Danish citizenship. That is why we think that today's debate was important. We are sorry that, at least, we have not been able to get the Social Democrats to change their position, since their position was based on a very wrong basis, it has to be said, in the context of the urgent procedure before the summer recess in 2017, because it could have meant a great deal, because hopefully we will soon have a new majority after a parliamentary election, in which we will then be able to introduce a large number of changes. But we will not have any changes here unless the Social Democrats are involved, and that is why I am very disappointed, both by the explanation we have received from the rapporteur up here today, but in fact also by the fact that the Social Democrats have not kept to what was actually the original position of the Social Democrats, namely that they were opposed to a change of law which would mean that a Danish homeless person who sticks the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee would be criminalised. That is the position that is being taken now, and it is disappointing, but we will continue to work to ensure that we have legislation that is linked in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164523	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164529	Thank you very much. I would like to know whether the rapporteur himself has experienced in the last few years or this summer what I think has been a growing problem with foreigners who come to Denmark, settle in camps, use our church areas as toilets, where it flows with garbage, and feeds, among other things. on Strøget with what is clearly organized begging. Has the rapporteur been aware of this, has the rapporteur seen it? And in that case, since the rapporteur does not believe that begging should be criminalised, this is not a problem that can only be solved with some exit centres or camps that the rapporteur has mentioned here. If the rapporteur acknowledges that there is a real problem, what would the rapporteur have done to solve this problem if it were not through this law, as well as the law that the police can clear these insecure camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164620	I can start by saying that we are certainly not in favour of some kind of exit camps, whatever they might be in this context. Our starting point is that we have some rules on the free movement of workers that could actually be used here, rather than making these restrictions, that is to say, that you have to be active job seekers and be able to document it, that you have to be able to support yourself and be able to document it by showing a sum corresponding to the rate of cash benefits, these are rules that you could use. When we talk about people, for example. Amager Samled is setting up a camp and living there under difficult conditions, and we are talking about foreigners, for example. In such a camp, there should not be such camps here in Copenhagen. I have seen them, and I have also seen all the beggars begging here in Copenhagen, but we must ensure that people are helped and returned to the countries where they are citizens in a dignified way and not just by sending out a bulldozer, so that people lose their documents or their identity papers, which will make it harder for them to move forward in their lives. I understand that many people feel that it is strange, or that it can be inconvenient, that you suddenly see hugged and poor people in our streets, for example. in Copenhagen, because it is something new. But that does not change the fact that criminalising poverty, increasing the criminalisation of poverty, as is the case with this bill, is, in principle, a very wrong way and a very unethical way of dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164746	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164748	This is not a criminalisation of poverty, this is a criminalisation of something that has really made a lot of Danes insecure. It's not a problem that I or the police just made up. Once the police have gone out, for example. has cleared a so-called Roma camp, or if they have gone into areas where there is organised or insecure begging, then it is most often on the basis of requests from citizens. What will the rapporteur say to the very, very many Copenhageners who have called the police and called the police because they have experienced insecurity-building begging? What will the rapporteur say to them, since the rapporteur clearly does not intend to do anything about this by law?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164831	I am once again in doubt as to what Mr. Marcus Knuth actually means insecure begging. I note that the parties who think that the begging law, the tightening of the penalty for begging, L 215, was a bad idea, represent some very large parties in Copenhagen, where Mr. Marcus Knuth's own party, the Left, is a very small party in Copenhagen. The voters, as Mr. Marcus Knuth believes that he should represent in this case, is certainly not so many when we talk about Copenhagen. I also believe that this debate has been very marked by the desire to profil something for populist purposes, because we are talking to some voters and some people who are not, in fact, the people who live in Copenhagen at all. You talk to a hinterland or some voters who want to vote on the Left, who do not live in Copenhagen and who do not experience these problems on a daily basis. Because these problems exist. The question is how we choose to solve them. And there we at least think and we have approx. 20% of the votes in Copenhagen that this is not solved by further criminalisation, it is solved by solving the social problems that lie behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164934	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116164953	Thank you. As I have already mentioned in a previous legislative procedure today, it is important for me and for the Liberal Alliance to be able to travel safely and freely throughout Denmark as a citizen. That is why the position of the Liberal Alliance is that we must find solutions to the conditions that begging in some cases creates. The law we are discussing roll-back was introduced with a view to solving a specific problem and the solution has given rise to a great deal of debate. I kind of get that. I just miss, a little in line with what the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party said, some answers from the critics of the law to what should be done instead of, unless, of course, you think it is no problem, and if that is the case, then it is fair enough that you are not obliged to offer solutions either. It is important to bear in mind that the law does not extend the criminal area. The penalties were tightened up for something that was already criminal, and there is a pretty big difference between the two things, and I think that is worth paying attention to. In addition, it is worth noting that the L 215 has already incorporated a sunset clause, which we in the Liberal Alliance were very pleased about. This means that the law will automatically be repealed on 1 July 2020 unless we in the Folketing decide to extend the validity of the law. It is the Liberal Alliance and the government's view that the law on the tightening of penalties helps to solve a specific problem. In a few years' time, we will have to decide on the operation of the law, and that is quite fine. For these reasons, we in the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal before us to roll back the amendments that lie in L 215.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116165149	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116165208	Thank you. After all, we were against the government's bill when it was voted through the Folketing at the time, and so it almost goes without saying that we support this motion for a resolution, and the arguments in some ways correspond to the arguments advanced in the debate on camps. We are, of course, willing to ban camps. We then think that the definition of camps has become too broad so that it hits the wrong ones, but some of the issues are the same: it hits the wrong ones. So what we have against this legislation is that it affects Danish beggars. No legal proceedings have yet been conducted, but at some point this is happening enough, and then the extreme form of poverty has actually been criminalised, and we are not in favour of it. When it comes to what you do with these visitors, I really believe much more in what is about the camps than to engage in begging, because if they can't beg, they might just start collecting bottles. At any rate, where I live, we have a regular bottle collector who comes and opens all containers, and I think that is how people will try to feed themselves in different ways. In fact, I believe more in the track of camps, and I fully support the fact that the camps were cleared at Trinitatis and so on. I think it has also had an effect. That is why I perhaps also believe that this particular proposal is unnecessary. It is certainly difficult to say whether the fact that there are fewer beggars now is because it is winter that they have gone home. It is a seasonal industry, so to speak, or whether it is due to the intensified effort in relation to camps. Maybe I believe that more. Therefore, perhaps there was no reason to rush through this law, as was done shortly before the summer. One might be tempted to believe that it had more to do with the municipal election campaign. It was a subject that certainly filled a great deal in Copenhagen. That is why we also agree with the criticism of the process itself and the ambiguity about what lies in the definition of insecure begging. But we are opposed to the proposal, and I shall inform our comrades in the SF that they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116165442	Thank you. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116165510	Thank you for the floor. It is therefore a very high rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, who always leaves the speaker desk very high up. Together with the Enhedslisten, we have tabled this motion for a resolution on the roll-back of the legislative amendment to tighten up the penalties for begging. And I would like to begin by thanking the Radicals and the SF for supporting our resolution. The reason why we have tabled this motion for a resolution is in two parts. Firstly, we can see that the bill has only hit foreign homeless and beggars, and that is worrying because it indicates a risk of discriminatory practices. We are not alone in having that concern. The Minister of Justice has thus, in an answer to a parliamentary question that I have asked, explained: at a meeting with the National Police on 26 October 2017, the Ministry of Justice discussed the police's handling of the penal code's regulation, including in relation to the international obligations in this area. The meeting was attended by a Police Commissioner from the National Police Department and two department heads, a Head of Division and a Chief Adviser from the Ministry of Justice. At the meeting it was agreed that, for the sake of good order, the National Police Department should contact all the country's police circles, including the Copenhagen Police Department, and draw attention to the fact that the police's action in this area must be organised and carried out in a non-discriminatory manner and that this should be communicated to all the people in the circles. In other words, there are several senior officials who have been concerned about this. I feel confident that the Minister and the Ministry have taken that concern seriously, and I do not doubt the intentions of the Minister, the Ministry or the police. But it is clear, I believe, that when you have been high up in the system concerned about the possibility of discriminatory practices, it provides food for thought for us legislators. And that is what we have also been talking about here today, because the focus on the whole law was that, as a starting point, you wanted to hit foreign beggars and that is why there is nothing to say that the police may have had difficulty in knowing who they should go for in the first place. Because it is not in all cases, as the rapporteur of the Left has pointed out, concerned citizens who have approached because there has been a beggar. No, we know from the cases that are that it is also very much the police who have made an outreach effort in relation to the places in question and who are arresting people. The second reason why we have to roll back the amendment of the law is that we believe that this is sloppy work on the part of the Danish Parliament, and I think that we should all take it seriously when we deal with legislation. Before I go into the question of sloppyness, I would like to mention that the draft law was entitled "Proposal for a law amending the criminal code' and the subtitle was "Strengthening the penalty for insecure begging'. As we have described in the comments on our motion for a resolution, that title is misleading, and it has certainly been the cause of the confusion of a number of rapporteurs who have led to sloppy. It is clear from the comments made on the draft law to tighten up the penalties for insecure begging: "Tiggery can be punished on the basis of the proposal without prior warning when it takes place in one of the said places. This is true regardless of whether the begging in the particular case has created insecurity. These words, which appear in the draft law's observations, are in stark contrast to both the subtitle of the draft law and the way in which a number of the parties which adopted the amendment presented the draft law. In fact, I think it was very much about the fact that the draft law had simply been misunderstood. This applies, for example, when, at the first reading of the draft law, the Legal Rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, Trine Bramsen, stood on the platform and replied to my colleague Carolina Magdalene Maier and the Legal Rapporteur of the Radicals, Zenia Stampe, when they questioned the definition of insecure begging, by saying the following: 'The definition of the insecurity-building is the same as we have once dealt with in relation to this camp, that is, when they have an aggressive behavior, when there are some who feel bothered by it when reviews occur, and when we assess the nature of how the betlerie has happened, and it will of course always be the judgement of the courts with a description of the situation. But it is very clear that it is the insecurity-building and therefore not the passive form of trust. It is therefore quite wrong because the insecurity created by the law, which we have mentioned several times today, is simply begging on pedestrian streets, at stations and in public transport. This means that it does not need to be insecure, but that it does so in one of the places in question, per year. definition is insecure. Mrs Trine Bramsen then said at first reading: 'No, there is, after all, a form of aggressiveness in the insecurity that exists, and I can give an example from my local Netto a few weeks ago. Here there was one person who ran after all the traders who came out and touched them, and it had a very aggressive character. It is insecurity-building trust. However, I would like to say again that this is not the way the draft law has been implemented. There are also other rapporteurs who have apparently misunderstood the draft law. This is the case with the rapporteur, Mr Marcus Knuth, who said at first reading: 'But we have no major problem, at least I do not know about Danish homeless people who follow that pattern, and therefore they will not be affected because they are primarily selling House Forby and they do not behave in a way that is insecure. This also applies to the rapporteur of the Minister of Justice's own party, the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr. Naser Khader, who said at first reading in this Chamber: "It is only when you beg in a way that is insecure. It is not people who are peacefully begging for 5 kroner. That too was and is therefore factually wrong in relation to the law itself. During Parliament's closing debate a few days before the first reading of the bill, the Prime Minister also made the following statement, which in all probability contributed to the biased interpretation of the content of the bill: "Now we are putting it in a form in which we have qualified the purpose clause, so that it is not any Danish homeless person who puts out his hand, which in principle risks 14 days of unconditional imprisonment, but so that it is targeted what can be called insecure begging. The draft law was not easy to read, but I have to admit that I am puzzled, because these statements by the Left, the Conservatives and the Social Democratic Party are not the interpretation of the bill by the Minister of Justice himself. It is therefore a serious matter that we are dealing with here. I believe that the Folketing has adopted a law on a misunderstood basis and that it is a sloppy one, and that is where the Folketing is unable to do its job properly, also because it was an emergency law. It has been an inadequate and hasty process that we have witnessed and, at the same time, I can only conclude that the amendment of the law has had a different effect and was also intended to have a different effect from that expressed by a number of the parties who voted in favour as a basis for their support for the law during the legislative process. Against this background, I would urge all parties in the Folketing to take this seriously today. I believe that we need to roll back the amendment of the law, which is precisely what this motion for a resolution proposes. And if the Danish Parliament then still wants to have a sharper penalty for begging when it takes place in the places in question, then you can take the process from scratch with a new bill, where we do the work thoroughly and based on facts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116170315	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116170350	The debate is open and we will start with the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116170353	Thank you. As stated in the government's constitution, it is important for the government to safeguard freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is at the heart of a democratic society. The government also agrees with the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, that is to say that we need to look at the framework for freedom of expression in Denmark. This also applies to social media, which have given the individual citizen a number of new opportunities to express himself and to receive information, but which can at the same time give rise to reflections on freedom of expression, among other things. because the social media are private companies that decide, as a starting point, which statements may be shared on their pages. The government has therefore, together with a broad majority of the parties of the Folketing, recently set up a Freedom of expression commission. The Commission must assess the framework and conditions of freedom of expression in Denmark and, for example, must: look at social media and their importance for freedom of expression. The work of the Commission must already be completed by the end of 2018, and I look forward very much to receiving the results. I am convinced that the Commission's assessments and recommendations will provide a solid basis for the further political debate on the expression of freedom of expression in Denmark. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to inform the Council that the government will work to end the agreement on a code of conduct to counter illegal hateful statements on the Internet made between the European Commission, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Microsoft. Then you can ask yourself whether this is the answer to the challenges we face when it comes to freedom of expression on the Internet. And the short answer is, in the view of the government, no, and I would like to explain why here. But let me start by stating that the code is neither contrary to the constitution nor to human rights. This already follows from the fact that this does not mean that public authorities interfere with freedom of expression. Social media are private companies. As a starting point, they decide which statements may be shared on their platforms and which agreements they wish to conclude. Companies have chosen to enter into an agreement with the European Commission on a code of conduct. This is a set of guidelines which companies will endeavour to comply with. It's not legislation. Then you might ask what is meant by illegal hate speech in the code of conduct. • Illegal hate speech is defined as public incitement to violence or hatred directed against a group of persons or a member of such a group, defined by reference to race, skin colour, religion, ancestry or national or ethnic origin. It can, for example, be done. be a statement calling for the killing of Jews. So these are particularly serious statements, which are already punishable, and it is perhaps so important to make this clear. The Code does not impose new legal restrictions on freedom of expression. If we are to eliminate such hate crimes on the Internet, we need a wide-ranging effort. I think it is positive that the social media recognise and recognise that they also have a responsibility and have therefore chosen to reach an agreement with the European Commission on a code of conduct. I think we should respect that agreement, and I do not think that we should go in and say that we should use force and force to set up a voluntary agreement between the European Commission and social media and a number of companies. A quite different question is whether the code of conduct should be made legally binding, and that is what the second half of the resolution is about. Indeed, the motion for a resolution calls for the government to actively oppose the European Commission's possible plans to make the code of conduct legally binding. When it comes to such binding rules at EU level, the government, like the proposers, is immediately sceptical. And should we then introduce binding rules in this country on how illegal hate speech should be handled on social media, as they have done in Germany? I think that is a very difficult question to answer, because it requires thorough consideration. And that is one of the things we hope to learn more about when the Freedom of Freedom Commission has completed its work. In the first place, therefore, I believe that voluntary schemes are the best way forward. As I said, we basically agree with the proposers that it is extremely important to safeguard freedom of expression and to debate the conditions for freedom of expression, but the government cannot support the motion for a resolution because we believe that we should not go in and work directly against an agreement between some companies and the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116170836	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116170839	Thank you. If, instead of making an agreement with a number of social media on how to interpret freedom of expression, the European Commission had made an agreement with a large number of major newspapers on how to interpret freedom of expression, and on what reading posts should be included in the newspapers in question, would the Minister of Justice not have been up in the red box to refer now to the Minister of Justice's excellent tie? Because I think the Minister of Justice would be. In fact, the same is true here. It is some other private operators, but otherwise it is quite the same. And then the Minister of Justice would point out that it must be punishable. But who is it that normally assesses whether something is punishable or not? It is not a newspaper, it is not Facebook, it is a court that judges whether or not something is punishable. And I know it's the case that you're innocent until proven otherwise. So there are a number of problems here that I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116170952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116170953	It's hard in seconds. In fact, I think it is essential to have this discussed in the Freedom of expression commission we have set up. And I think it's important to say that this proposal is based on this voluntary agreement that has been made. Facebook says: Is there anything here that is illegal, hateful utterances that are illegal? Then we should screen it as best we can in 24 hours and have it removed as soon as possible. It is also illegal today, for example. to encourage the social media to kill Jews, and I hope that, as we agree, we will continue to be illegal. So I actually think that where Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth takes it away, not at all what we are discussing here. I understand where the set of ideas is going, but it is also important for me to say that we are setting a clear framework for when something is illegal and when it is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171049	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171051	We are talking about privatised censorship here. This is completely analogous to if the Danish Government had approached Politiken, Berlingske Tidende, other newspapers and told the newspapers: Now you must be careful with these speeches, and speeches that are not in accordance with this are not allowed to be recorded. It is, of course, forbidden in relation to the Danish constitution. And this, in my opinion, is the same thing. So it is at the edge of the constitution when you go in and privatise censorship by making such agreements. I can't believe the Minister of Justice can't see that. After all, newspapers are also private operators, just like Facebook and other social media.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171138	But I think it is important to maintain that this is, of course, a code that has been defined, a code of conduct in which one has an interest in the fact that there are also limits. When these companies say that they want to help keep an eye on the fact that what is being said, what is being done, is not being given free rein when it is illegal, it is not about opinion censorship, it is about what is already illegal. I hope, then, that we agree that nobody here should be calling for, for example, on the Internet. must kill the Jews or whatever it might be. Well, it's a code. I think I can figure out that the questioner is wondering where this could end. Is this such a slippery slope in relation to what the European Union should be doing in terms of agreements and legislation? I agree, however, that this is not something to change from the European Union's point of view. This is the kind of thing, that is to say what is to be law and law that we are going to discuss in Denmark. And then, of course, I hope we can find a solution to that when we get this far with the Freedom of expression commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171241	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171301	Thank you very much for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled this motion for a resolution. I do not like the fact that this gives a good opportunity to discuss some of these very difficult issues at the moment, namely where the limits of both our freedom of expression and the responsibility of publishers for the brand-new types of platforms go. I really think that the Minister for Justice explained very well what is also our position. We cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, but I would like to begin by admitting that one can intuitively ask why the European Union should interfere in these matters. Why should a code be made at all? I actually think that we are intuitively in agreement with the Danish People's Party that one can wonder about it. On the other hand, it must also be said that we are living at a time when there is a great deal of space for hateful utterances, which, as such, can also have enormous consequences. We know that only in Danish groups on Facebook there is a huge hatred against both Israel and Jews, but also against Muslims and other groups who can help to encourage some to resort to violence in everyday life etc. In addition, we must also say that these new platforms have, in my opinion, a very high level of publishing responsibility. I do not think, like the rapporteur, that it would be at the edge of the constitution if one saw that in certain printed media there remained, for example, a consistent over-representation of utterances which called for acts which are, as such, punishable, that one went to the publisher, whether it was Extra Bladet or Politiken or Jyllands-Posten or a completely fourth or fifth publisher, and said: can we not make a voluntary agreement that we are trying to pay more attention to these things? That's basically what you've been trying to do with this code. Why the European Union? We know that both Google and Facebook, and what else these great California-based Internet platforms and social media are called, are such big mastodons that it actually makes sense here too that it is the European Union that is holding those discussions and negotiations. We fully agree with the Danish People's Party that, as is also written in the motion for a resolution, our freedom of expression, which is written down both in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the Constitution, is of course above all else. But at the same time we believe that one can be better at calling in particular Facebook, Twitter etc. to have a better form of what should you call it? That is why we cannot support the resolution. Finally, and of course the Ministry of Justice must be able to respond to this, my best assessment would also be that if it were the case that the Commission chose to make this legally binding, it would be subject to our legal reservation. All in all, however, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171628	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171632	It's kind of rare for me to miss Poul Madsen, but I could actually miss Poul Madsen a little after hearing Mr Madsen. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's speech. It might be interesting to know whether the Extra Magazine would be willing to make such an agreement, for I do not think the Extra Magazine would. So, I think that the Ekstra Bladet would see it as untimely political interference in their editorial freedom if you had to make such an agreement with politicians at Christiansborg. And I'd be very worried about that, too. I have to say that I would very much. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also mentioned that with predatory statements. Well, it doesn't matter that you're no longer innocent until proven otherwise. You don't get criminal proceedings carried out; you just get your right of expression removed. But what I really wanted to hear, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen about was in relation to Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's colleague, Mrs Trine Bramsen, has spoken on this in the Dagbladet Information. There Mrs Trine Bramsen says about German legislation, and I quote: we are open to looking at whether we can tighten the legislation in Denmark, but we may have to do so in cooperation with EU laws if we are to push these players to take responsibility. Quote out. Does this mean that the Social Democratic Party is for the second part of this proposal, in other words for us to introduce such a German rule that you will be fined up to 50 million? What, for not removing this after 24 hours?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171759-2	In other words, as I have said, my best assessment is and it is based on law study, etc., which of course lies back a few years ago, that an attempt on the part of the European Commission to make this legally binding would be subject to our legal reservation. The question is: should Denmark then copy the German legislation? So, I really think that what the Minister of Justice said sounded very good, and I think there is good reason to wait for the discussions of the Freedom of expression commission and the report that might come from there. The only thing I can say, on the other hand, is just: I think it is obvious, at least, that on Facebook in particular, but on other platforms too, there is a problem, both in terms of hateful utterances, which are already criminal, and indeed also in terms of a whole host of other things. We saw yesterday that the police took the initiative to raise charges in relation to some things that have been shared on social media etc. Right now, what is going on on Facebook is the anarchy, and I don't think it matters that you also have a dialogue with that platform, so that you can create a little better regulation and a slightly better way of being together and discussing on those media.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171922	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116171923	Yes, but can it really be true that the rapporteur, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, is it the case that the rapporteur is prepared to outsource freedom of expression to unskilled workers in India? I mean, that's really what this is about, because who is it that sits and decides whether these things need to be removed? These are unskilled workers in India and Morocco, as Jesper Lund of the IT Politics Association said in the Dagbladet Information. So, can it really be true that it is unskilled workers in India and Morocco who, with the help of Google Translate, have to decide whether a thing that people have written in Denmark is punishable or not punishable?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116172008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116172009	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is quite right that it is a huge dilemma how to do it here in practice. It doesn't change the fact that I think it's a good idea to have a dialogue with both Facebook and Twitter and other platforms about how to ensure a better way not only to be together but also to discuss with each other on social media; how to prevent social media from being abused • as we have seen examples of associations or individuals who also directly encourage violent behavior and maybe in some cases terror and all sorts of other things. I just think it is important to have a dialogue on this, and I fully agree that it is a huge dilemma that Google or Facebook, or whoever it may be, has their large centres in India or Morocco or quite third countries where they have some people sitting, who are not necessarily trained for this. But I think that dialogue must be held, and the European Union, the major platform providers and the Danish government should be actively involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116172117	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then maybe I should draw Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's attention to the fact that the proposer comes to the end and that, therefore, it is now Mr Jørgensen. Jan E. Jørgensen, who has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116172136	Thank you. And thank you for the floor. Our freedoms - and here I am thinking in particular of freedom of expression - are quite fundamental in a democratic society such as the Danish one, and I go a long way to defend them. On the other hand, I am not so dogmatic that I regard freedom of expression as absolute. Now, if I said here from Parliament's platform that a bomb had been found and then everyone panicked out of the building, then I would not be able to cover myself under the freedom of speech. There are also several who have tried to be funny in the airport security controls, and they haven't gotten away with that either. Slander, child pornography and the approval of terrorism are also illegal. We have, and indeed together with the proposers of the Danish People's Party, not long ago stopped foreign hate preachers from entering Denmark and spreading their hatred. So freedom of expression is not absolute and never was. In the good old days, and I'm so old that I remember them, you couldn't just spread illegal voices. It took a mass media, a megaphone or a really good photocopier. Hate speech, or hateful speech, as is rightly called in Danish, did not get past the debate editor, and the sender first had to write a letter, find an envelope and invest in a stamp. Hadporno was also a completely unknown phenomenon. We didn't all have a camera on our phone, and you didn't run around like that and took naked pictures of each other, because they had to be produced first by a photo dealer, and if someone got it done anyway, you should get it developed in several copies and send it to your friends. It's not like that anymore. Technology has made many things much easier and, unfortunately, technology has also made it easier to violate others illegally in words or images. I myself stumbled over the following posts on Facebook, which I will now read out and I would like to warn against the language: Close as they borders, and then let's shoot the dogs one for one I'd like to take the first. They are and remain like monkeys and animals. They have no human thoughts or feelings at all. That's how it's written. Everyone can read it, including our kids. I am in favour of freedom of expression and opposition to censorship, but with social media there has been an opportunity for everyone to write anything about anyone. On Facebook anything can be done even livestream murder or rape. Facebook itself has claimed that they were really aware of the problem, which actually makes sense, because if you get in a bad mood every time you click into Facebook, because it is filled with hatred, anger and racism, yes, you don't want to get there anymore, and therefore Facebook actually introduced an opportunity to report hateful rhetoric even before the EU agreement. I tried to review the comment that I just read out, and the answer from Facebook was friendly, but also completely meaningless. They wrote: Thank you for taking the time to report something that you believe violates our Community rules. We have reviewed the comment you notified to show hateful rhetoric, and we have assessed that it does not violate our Community rules. Well, if it's not hateful rhetoric to call immigrants monkeys and animals without human thoughts and feelings, what is? If it's not hateful to want to shoot those dogs one by one and offer to take the first one yourself, what is? Facebook, according to its own statements, removes hateful statements that attack people directly on the basis of among others. race, ethnicity, national origin and religious affiliation, but apparently they do not. So my very own experience supports that there has been a need to get Facebook in particular, but also YouTube, Twitter and Google to tighten up, because they didn't do it by themselves. That is why I also believe that the code of conduct that the European Commission adopted in 2016 with guidelines on how to combat the spread of illegal hate speech on the Internet in Europe is a very good idea, because small Denmark does not speak with as much voice to these giant companies as the European Union does. You might ask if they know Margrethe Vestager they do, and that is not because of her work here in the house. With the relatively new code, IT companies undertake to deal with illegal hate speech on the Internet. Among other things: they shall train their employees and review reports of illegal hate speech within 24 hours and, if necessary, remove or block access to the content. It is important to note that the Code of Conduct refers directly to freedom of expression. Freedom of expression weighs heavily, and therefore there must be a sober and balanced assessment taking into account freedom of expression. The European Court of Human Rights is quoted, and so we are also talking about allowing messages that violate, offend or disturb the state or part of the population. In other words, there is a clear distinction between utterances that just violate and offend, and then utterances that are, in fact, illegal hateful utterances that contain a real and serious incitement to violence or hatred. But I do agree that this is a difficult balance. So, Grundtvig said, "The mouth free, the hand bound." There is a difference between actions and attitudes, but when hateful attitudes are expressed, it can therefore be seen in particularly serious cases as offensive as a physical abuse, and we all now recognize a phenomenon as psychological violence. Things aren't working perfectly yet, but we're on our way, Facebook and others are on our way, and we have to remember that this isn't censorship, as the proposers say, it's a subsequent editing of something that someone has put up on a private portal, and it has nothing to do with censorship. So thank the authors of the debate, but no thanks to the motion for a resolution we need freedom, we do not need hatred, and at the risk of sounding like an old hippie, I would say that we probably need something more love, and that is probably not the case with many of those who make these hateful statements online, but we will hardly solve that with a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116172743	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116172747	In fact, I think that the example of Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen comes here, shows how arbitrary these rules are enforced by Facebook, for at the same time as the example of Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen joined, is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, for example. was excluded from Facebook for 24 hours, referring to the fact that she called Helle Thorning-Schmidt stupid and naive. It has to be said that there is just as much a difference between the two things, and I suppose that says something about a private company perhaps not being the right person to be a joint guard in relation to what can be said and what cannot be said. 'Cause I'm in agreement with sir. Jan E. Jørgensen in that that is far beyond the limit of what you should be able to say. I actually thought that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen was a liberal, but I think that the speech we are hearing from Mr Jørgensen. Jan E. Jørgensen today is the least liberal I've heard so far. It seems like Mr. Knox... Jan E. Jørgensen is actually reasonably safe to leave it to Facebook and Twitter etc. To find out what is punishable and unpunishable utterances, and I wonder, for the last time I looked in the Danish Parliament's handbook, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen lawyer. I thought that was the kind of person who kept the shapes.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116172859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116172900	Well, I think we're kind of messing things up a little bit. Besides, I also think it should be legal for Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard to call Helle Thorning-Schmidt stupid and naive and the other way around, if you want to. I do not know whether this will benefit the debate, but of course you must be allowed to write it. But we have to stick to the fact that Facebook isn't judging anyone. No one goes to prison, no one has to pay a fine. The worst punishment one can face, then, is that one is blocked or that one's speech is deleted. I know someone can experience that as violent, but it may also be very nice with 24 hours of cooling break for many. We have to remember that. So there is no punishment. This is a private company that has made an agreement that they want to remove some of these nasty statements. And with regard to that case, I totally agree, I don't understand why Facebook removed it. I don't understand why Facebook is so hysterical about naked bodies either. Peter Ø. Knudsen, for example, got censored pictures from his book on the hippie movement because you saw some naked hippies on their way into the water. It was by no means pornographic. But, on the other hand, we must also recognise that, like a newspaper, a private company decides what must be written in the newspaper and can say no to speeches, even if they are fully legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116173022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116173028	Yes, that is no longer the case in Germany, where this exorbitant fine of 50 million has been imposed. euros, if you don't get rid of these hateful phrases within 24 hours. Could Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen imagines such a little in the wake of the debate I had with Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's party, the Left, perhaps under the leadership of the press minister, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime Minister, made an appointment with Ekstra Bladet and Berlingske Tidende, etc. On the basis of the same rules as this, that is, that there were some things that you would rather not have had to be printed in the newspapers? Was it something like that, sir? Jan E. Jørgensen thinks that was a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116173104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116173105	I think that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is messing things up a little, because newspapers have just been edited. There is, of course, a responsible editor, and he then takes a position on the things you want in the newspaper and the things you don't want in the newspaper. And that's what you do. also on the basis of a consideration as to whether something is legal or not. On the digital platforms we all have an opportunity to be our own editor. We can put something up directly, and then that's the second after. And here it is that you can then go in and remove something. So I don't think the comparison is going to last. I also think that we should deal with what we are doing in Denmark and perhaps less with what they are doing in Germany, which, moreover, has a very special history and a very special relationship with what we must say and what we must not say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116173200	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more questions. The next speaker is Mr. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116173220	After all, we are discussing the proposal by the Danish People's Party to repeal the EU code of online behaviour, and it is, as the comments on the motion for a resolution also state, an agreement between the Commission and a number of companies, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Microsoft, on hateful utterances. The proposers point out that hateful utterances are a loosely defined concept. The authors also write in the comments that there are large legal and legal cultural differences between the individual EU countries, which is a fact, and that it can therefore be difficult for individual countries to assess what might be the common denominator in relation to a hateful expression, because there are precisely different cultural and legal differences between the many EU countries. What can be said is that even if there is a repeal of the EU Code of Conduct, the problem will probably still be there to a large extent, because the EU Code of Conduct or not, Facebook and many of these companies, as has been mentioned, will still have guidelines on what they see as good conduct of debate. There we have seen many problems in the handling of shutting down facebook pages in relation to certain phrases. There are many examples. I have also received representations from NGOs and organisations that say that Facebook has now closed down their side. It could, for example, be done. be those called Boycott Israel, who have had their side closed several times, without having written anything on their website that has illegal political content. So we clearly have a problem with the fact that social media such as Facebook and Twitter are becoming increasingly important in relation to the debate that has taken place and that they are carrying out a kind of privatised Internet censorship that goes beyond freedom of expression. It has to be said that where this is seriously problematic, the legislation we are seeing in Germany these days, in other words the law on enforcement on networks that has just entered into force, where media such as Facebook, Twitter, Google, YouTube, Snapchat and Instagram, if the law is not respected, can be fined between EUR 5 and 50 million. Euro, i.e. between DKK 37. and 372 million. kr. We have already seen how this legislation has led to an interference in the freedom of the press; we have seen that, for example, in the United Kingdom, there has been an increase in the number of people employed in the press. satire has been censored by Twitter because Twitter has perceived what was written as being hateful speech and has therefore made censorship. The German Federation of Journalists is really critical of this, and the Enhedslisten is equally critical. The proposers also write some things that Enhedslisten agrees with. Some of the wordings are perhaps a little skinny, and we had formulated them in a different way, but there are things where we think there are important points that should be written behind the ear. It is a problem that private actors such as Facebook, Twitter and others. determine whether certain content on the Internet exceeds the unclear and often conflicting limits of freedom of expression that apply at EU level. This involves the risk that national legislation will also remove content, and the practices of firms will be incoherent and opaque. Since a very important part of the public debate is currently taking place on social media and across borders, the code of conduct involves a far-reaching restriction of freedom of expression without democratic guarantees of legal certainty, which result when restrictions on this freedom are adopted by national parliaments. From Enhedslisten's side, our position in principle on this issue is that private companies or social media or platforms, where you can discuss where there can be blogs, can have their own rules of debate, but we do have clear legislation, we have the rules of libel, we have the racism clause, where you can clearly go in and assess and prosecute if people violate the law. That is why we are strongly opposed and distrustful of legislation, which must try to put in between citizens and democratic debate such new layers of privatised censorshipmakers. In Denmark, our rules, i.e. the libel law and the racism clause, are being actively enforced against people who have spoken on social media. So with those comments in mind I can say that we are actually going to support the proposal here and that we expect to vote in favour of the proposal if it is to come to second reading and thus vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116173736	There is no wish for short remarks, and I thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116173753	Thank you. The Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance do not always look exactly the same on all political issues, but there are issues where our views are consistent, and freedom of expression is one of those issues. The agreement between the European Commission, on the one hand, and Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Microsoft, on the other hand, is a voluntary, non-legally binding agreement. In the comments to the motion for a resolution, the proposers suggest that the agreement was concluded under threats of legislative action and, although I am somewhat inclined to give the Danish People's Party the right in that assessment, it does not alter the fact that it is a voluntary agreement concluded by private companies and the European Commission. Of course, private companies are allowed to do so, and that is why I do not think that the Danish Government should embark on an attempt to break up the agreement. As regards the second part of the motion for a resolution, which states that the government should actively oppose the European Commission's possible plans to make a code of conduct legally binding or otherwise adopt legally binding rules restricting the freedom of expression of citizens of the Union or otherwise exercising censorship on social media platforms, I fully agree with the proposers. Of course, legislation should not be introduced within the European Union which in any way restricts freedom of expression. I was also associated with an unusual choice of words for the Danish People's Party in the wording of the motion for a resolution: 'Union citizens'. I do not usually think that this is a concept that the Danish People's Party likes to embrace, but I am glad that it is also the type of citizen whose freedom of expression in the Danish People's Party is concerned with protecting. Overall, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution, although we very much agree with the spirit of the proposal and in particular the second part of the two specific proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174007	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174011	Then it is the case that one might almost wish that one could do just as one does with the legislative proposals, in other words divide them into two so that the Liberal Alliance could vote in favour of the second part and perhaps the government could even vote in favour of the second part. But it may be that we have to table another resolution, which then only goes on the second part of this. Maybe it could be very good. I have such a feeling that Mrs Christina Egelund is actually pretty excited about this proposal, and that is wonderful. But I would just like to test it, because Mrs Christina Egelund is liberal, and in the Liberal Group there is a lady named Marietje Schaake, and I just want to know whether Mrs Christina Egelund agrees with what she said: if Turkey or Russia had made an agreement with Facebook to remove extremist and hateful statements, the debate would probably have been different; the actions of the European Commission are being followed closely by the outside world, which will have similar agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174123	No, I very much disagree with that, because if you really are serious about freedom of expression, it applies, of course, to everyone, including those with whom you may disagree, or those with whom you might think you were on an errand that you do not like. Freedom of expression is one of the values that I believe to be universal, with very few exceptions in relation to calls for and threats of terror, violence and so on. and libel, but they must, of course, be as universal as possible. This is one of the tests of strength as to whether freedom of expression is really serious. In relation to the questioner's initial comment, I can only say that I am pleased to inspire good ideas about tabling motions for resolutions which can be endorsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174209	As there are no more requests for questions, I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174221	Thank you, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal, which I must admit is not a black and white proposal. It is not a proposal that I, when I read it, just thought yes or no to. It is actually a proposal that raises some rather important issues and some really difficult questions. After all, what is social media really? Who's responsible for what's going on? And there, in the normal media, you have a publisher's responsibility, and you don't have that here. That is why I think it has been sensible for the European Union to have gone in together and looked at this and looked at how to try to resolve it. And that attempt isn't finished. It's an experiment you've done with this code that's worked in some ways when we don't see these hats. Today, working groups have also been set up in relation to false news. And I think we are looking at this together in the European Union, in other words how to resolve this. Because we are looking at very large companies. It is large companies that will be hard to resist alone as a small country, but we can do that together. And there we must dare try different ways. This code has been one way and we do not think it is unreasonable, and that is why we have come to the conclusion that we do not support an otherwise important resolution. This is an important discussion, but we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174345	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174349	I don't think so, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist dealt so much with the very essence of it. What is the amount of freedom of expression? Who's gonna be a joint guard? I understand that the alternative sees itself as such relatively close to the green movement. In Germany, the alternative is certainly closer to the Greens than to the German alternative. When this law was made in Germany, which would mean these very, very large fines, the President of the Greens in Germany, Simone Peter, said that quote: It is not acceptable that American companies like Twitter should have an influence on freedom of expression or freedom of the press in Germany. Quote out. Now, I think that is quite right, although of course I should not interfere in German relations. But I would have the same attitude if it were in Denmark. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Rasmus Nordqvist basically agrees with the view of the Green leader in Germany, or whether something else is at stake here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174456	But I fully agree with what is being said. This is about a code. That is what we are dealing with here. Then we must demand that we do not continue to work on something that is legally binding. But it is not necessarily law like the one in Germany that you want to implement. That is precisely why I am saying that I think it is very important that we go to this undogmatically and understand how to deal with the great challenge we face in relation to social media, because there is no editorial responsibility. That is what we are discussing in the AVMS directive; that is also what we are discussing in the Copyright Directive: who is responsible for what is being done? Who is responsible for copyright, etc. Are you being followed? And that is where we will have to investigate, which is why I do not want to say to the government that they have to work against the fact that we, together in the European Union, are trying to find ways of linking up good rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174543	But I can hardly interpret that differently from the fact that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist thus does not reject pan-European legislation a la the German. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist therefore does not deny that fines should be awarded for example. Facebook and Twitter, if they do not remove things, as by the one working in India or Morocco, is considered a hateful expression. I just think so, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist must answer relatively clearly. Well, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist that this should be legally binding and that it should therefore be possible to grant these relatively large fines to these companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174627	I really think it is a pity that the rapporteur is trying to do so black and white. Because this important discussion is about a lot of different nuances. How do we deal with this? We do not believe that the German legislation should be duplicated. Does this mean that we do not believe that legally binding agreements can be made in the European Union in this area? No. There are many ways to do this, and we really think that we should be open to this and actively engage in it and help to resolve it instead of shooting it down in advance and requiring the government to completely oppose the possible solutions that could come.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174659	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116174709	Facebook is a private company. They decide for themselves how they edit and whether they even edit, moderate. It is, of course, a huge power, and at home we do not always agree entirely with that administration. I think most of us thought it might have been a little snarky, that those just breasts on Peter Øvig Knudsen's side were removed. On the other hand, we're probably some people who think that those revenge pornovideos are allowed to stay a little too long on Facebook. After all, it is a really big debate about how to deal with a media that really does not have any real editorial power and that has an enormous impact on our debate and, at the very least, on our society. How do you deal with them as a nation state? After all, this code is about one area: hate. This is an area that Facebook himself has been very concerned about and has talked about, even long before it was taken up by the European Commission in this way. As I understand the agreement or code that has been made with the social media, it's all about Facebook saying: We're preoccupied with this problem of hate, but we really want to follow national legislation. It is a theme that interests us, but where the cut is just put, it is also a difficult balance for us. We are then trying to put it where the legislation is today. I find it amazing that this proposal comes from the Danish People's Party, a party which is very concerned that national legislation should apply. When we then have an international gigantic company with gigantic power that says that in this area they would like to use the national legislation as a guide, yes, sorry, it just lacked then the Danish People's Party sits and says: No, no, no. Testimonials, which are clearly on the limit of what is legal, must not help me God, for then the courts must take care of it. I do not know what the Danish People's Party would be like, if now Jyllands-Posten or Politiken or Information over and over and over again printed letters of reading that called for the killing of Jews or for terror. Wouldn't the Danish People's Party at some point say to the media: It's amazing that you keep making yourselves a platform for the hatred that we politicians have decided is illegal and we don't want it? I believe that the reason why the Danish People's Party is opposed to this is that it is about racism law. It is a national law, so even though it comes from Denmark and you kind of like the things that come from Denmark, it is exactly a law that you disagree with, and therefore you do not like it being elevated to anything more. And perhaps it is because it is the European Union that has taken the initiative. Why has the European Union done this? Well, because it's one of these multinational companies that's so big, so powerful that a small country like Denmark has a very hard time starting a dialogue alone. That said, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175032	There is a question from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175035	I can say very clearly to Mrs Zenia Stampe that we in the Danish People's Party do not intervene against the freedom of the press. If the situation that Mrs Zenia Stampe is suggesting here arose, then we were confident that the courts would deal with it. So we do not intervene against the freedom of the press. We could never dream of that, and I think it is a little disturbing that it is now the third rapporteur who stands up here and starts talking about how to do something similar with Danish media if necessary. I find that very disturbing. I'll tell you what. However, since Mrs Zenia Stampe is now radical, and I remember that on a lot of banners I have seen this radical message that we are listening, and some of those who were listening were also the experts, I will allow myself to take an expert out, because we have to listen, and it is of course the Director of the Think Tank Justitia, Jacob Mchanama, who, when this proposal came forward, said, and I quote: this is a very dangerous path for the European Union to go down. They can simply remove statements that would otherwise be fully legal in Denmark. Does Mrs Zenia Stampe not think that it is a problem that we have an expert to whom the Radical Left listens, who actually believes that this is a step down a slippery path towards a reduction in freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175200	I do not think this is a question of a boycott of freedom of expression. You can write something on your own website, and who else is in favour of closing websites without judgment? Doesn't it used to be the Danish People's Party? Yeah, I guess it does, just in some other areas. Well, I guess that depends a little on what the subject is. If it is Islamist terrorists, I think the Danish People's Party is willing to ignore it with judgment or not, but when it comes to racism, it is very crucial that there is a judgment, if you allow people to threaten the killing of Jews or Muslims until there is a judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175235	Well, that's very crucial, I'd say to Mrs. Zenia Stampe. After all, we have seen the basic law which prohibits censorship, and here we are dealing with the fact that the European Union has, if we may say so, set some others to take the dirty work, i.e. privatised censorship. Now I do not know how much intellectualism is left in Mrs Zenia Stampe, there is probably only cultural radicalism left, but nevertheless, as a Liberal, one must be able to see that it is a problem that one of the central freedoms is suppressed in this way. Because that's what you do. You know, you take away people's opportunity to express yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175316	What we are talking about is that some social media have come up with a declaration of intent to stay within national legislation, that is, legislation that has its roots in this Parliament. That is what we are talking about, and I therefore find it very difficult to see the incredibly critical of that. Yes, I do not know when else to criticise people for saying that they intend to stay within the law. In other words, it can be said that Danish newspapers, as far as I know, have little doubt as to how it is expressed in concrete terms, well have a publisher's responsibility, and for that reason they probably also have an interest in keeping within the law. Otherwise, you can be held accountable. It's so little more unclear with these big social media, and that's part of the problem. They have tremendous power, but we have not really been able to figure out how to hold them accountable. We are better dressed up for this compared to our national media. We just have to note that today it is the major international media that have the greatest power, and that is why these initiatives, I believe, are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175420	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the SF's rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why we move on to Mr SF's report. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175440	Thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. We cannot support it. It is, of course, a pity that freedom of expression cannot be unlimited, but we in Denmark have some rules that are not allowed to make certain statements. I believe that everyone will be able to agree, including the Danish People's Party, that there is no reason, for example, that there are calls for the killing of Jews or calls to join the Islamic State on social media such as Twitter, Facebook, YouTube etc. We want to make sure that doesn't happen. In fact, this is the code of conduct that the Danish People's Party wants to drop, because you just have to review whether there are any illegal practices, you have to allocate some resources, some people, to do so, and it has to be done relatively quickly. We think that is a good thing. It is clear that there have been some examples, including on Facebook, where debaters have had comments deleted or even been quarantined on the basis of some statements that we do not think should be quarantined for. There you can then discuss how much we have to get involved and go in and dictate what Facebook has to allow, in addition to having such a code of conduct to prevent illegal utterances. It is probably difficult for us to dictate that certain debaters should be allowed to write certain things on a private medium. Facebook and other social media must, of course, as a starting point, regardless of what statements are allowed on their social media, as long as they are not illegal statements. We cannot allow calls to be made for violence, murder, recruitment to terrorist organisations and other things which are clearly illegal under Danish, European and other general Western legislation. But all in all, we think that this code of conduct is quite good and that something is being reacted more quickly, so that illegal expressions cannot flourish unbridled on social media.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175651	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175655	It has to be said that the nuances within the government have been seen in relation to this proposal, and I think it was particularly interesting to see the difference between the Minister of Justice and Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, who is from the same party. The Minister of Justice represents the government while Mr. Rasmus Jarlov represents the Conservatives, and the Conservatives seem to have an opinion on this, which is about this online code being great, and I can almost tell from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that he is also in favour of having to crack down on them here with some fines and something like that, while the Minister of Justice then does not have that view. But it's always nice to bring the nuances. Actually, I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov about something. Right after Christmas, a person with whom the Conservative People's Party has a history, Suzanne Bjerrehuus, had a voice removed after writing on Facebook, that she was pricked that there was a shooting every day in Sweden. Doesn't it mean that Facebook is not able to handle this task that has been given to them by the European Commission when it takes away such a speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175809	I can assure you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth states that the Minister of Justice and I fully agree on our position on this resolution. Compared to the expression that Suzanne Bjerrehuus had deleted, and I can't remember if she also got any quarantine for it, I don't think it was a statement of a character that should lead to quarantine. There has also been, as I understand it, a withdrawal from Facebook, where they have acknowledged that it was a mistake and that she should not have had it deleted or been quarantined for it. So what is happening is of course a pity, but of course you have to say that Facebook has quite a lot of comments to make, they have to take a stand on every day, and that is, of course, a challenge for them. However, when it comes to recognising that it was a mistake, there may not be any basis for drawing too many conclusions as to whether it should be particularly problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175906	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175907	We have now revolved around this question of whether we could imagine anything similar in relation to Danish newspapers, and I have talked forward to three members of the Folketing saying that one could actually do so, so I would now like to ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, whether the Conservative People's Party could imagine making a similar voluntary agreement with Danish newspapers, if that was how you felt a need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116175932-2	There I have a little difficulty seeing the same need, because Danish newspapers are not a platform where you can just write anything. You can do that in the comment box on their web newspapers, but in the printed newspapers you can't just write anything. Readers' letters will be rejected if they contain the kind of phrases that we are discussing here. So it's quite difficult to see a need for us to have this kind of code of conduct with the newspapers, which I actually think is generally very good at moderating both their reading pages and, in fact, also what's going on online, where even the Extrabladet Nation is moderated to an extent that makes this type of phrase deleted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116180022	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. I now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116180025	Thank you. As you know, on 31 May 2016, the European Commission concluded an agreement with Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Microsoft to combat so-called hateful phrases on the web. The agreement was based on two points: firstly, in the Council Framework Decision of 28 November 2008, of which it included: This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There, 300 representatives under the leadership of the EU Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs, Mr Věra Jourová, met. One of the conclusions of the meeting was that the increase in online hate speech should be combated through cooperation with IT companies and media by removing hateful statements and promoting so-called counter-tellings originating from civil society, as it was called. The reason for this was, among other things, that: According to the agreement, and now I quote again: the presence of hate on the Internet has a negative impact on those who speak on behalf of freedom, tolerance and non-discrimination. Quote out. I do not know whether it is Mrs Zenia Stampe who is being referred to. So the European Commission embarked on a dangerous voyage; a voyage which threatens to deprive Europeans of the freedom of expression which is, after all, the very foundation of our democratic states. Freedom of expression applies to all, high and low, and especially to those citizens whose utterances can be seen as controversial or inciting. In the Danish People's Party, we will not accept that the EU actively combats citizens' freedom of expression by concluding agreements with, for example, the United States. Facebook and Twitter to limit freedom of expression on their platforms on behalf of the European Union. When the European Union does so, it acts actively to restrict freedom of expression, de facto by introducing censorship. And in Denmark, as you know, censorship is prohibited by Article 77 of the Constitution. During the first annual evaluation of the agreement, Commissioner Věra Jourová stated that the agreement had not been sufficient to contain hate speech and Jourová opened the way for the European Commission to propose legislation that legally obliged companies to restrict freedom of expression for their users. In June 2017, Germany adopted legislation allowing social media to be fined up to 50 million. euro if they do not remove so-called hate speech within 24 hours. The German Minister of Justice, Heiko Maas, said in this regard, and it is a quote: that experience has shown that the operators of the major platforms without political pressure will not fulfil their obligations, which is why legislation is necessary. Quote out. So the same conclusion as the EU Commissioner. There is therefore a real possibility that the European Union will follow the German example and legislate in this area. But what are we talking about? What is hate speech? It is nothing new that Facebook removes controversial content and quarantines users to participate in the public debate. In 2013, for example, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard got. on Facebook quarantine for 24 hours after having called the then Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt for, and I quote: stupid and naive. And no later than this December, Suzanne Bjerrehuus was subjected to censorship by Facebook, after she had pointed out in one listing that there are 4-5 times more gunshots in Sweden than in Germany and Norway, and that in 2017 there was an average shooting a day in Sweden. Then Suzanne Bjerrehuus was told from Facebook that it was one, and I quote: hateful statement that attacks people directly on the basis of race, ethnicity and national origin. Quote out. This says a lot about Facebook's interpretation of how wide a framework there is for freedom of expression and that they are somewhat different from those resulting from the Danish Penal Code. It also says that Facebook is concerned about the prospect of European legislation in this area and thus tightens the screw quite seriously in relation to when action is taken against hateful utterances. And who is it really that sits at Facebook and decides whether a speech is legal or not? Yes, apparently it is unskilled labour in Morocco and India. It is not only in Denmark that politicians and opinion-formers are censored. In Germany, a federal member of the AFD, Beatrix von Storch, was excluded from Twitter after complaining that the Cologne police at the turn of the year 2017/18 sent out a tweet in Arabic. A representative of the Jewish minority, Mike Delberg, was blocked after uploading a video of an anti-Semitic abuse of a Jewish man. Of course, he did not do so with the aim of spreading anti-Semitism. In addition, however, many examples must be added where ordinary people have been denied their freedom of expression, which, by its very nature, does not call for the same attention as when they suffer from known people. See, the examples here show that it is dangerous when the EU encourages social media to be joint guardians of freedom of expression. We do not need a co-guardian who censors; we need maximum freedom of expression and illegal statements, which include, for example, the right to freedom of expression. Threats are being prosecuted. I should like to thank the Danish Parliament for its consideration of this matter, and I am pleased to note that there is support for the proposal from Enhedslisten. I note that the Liberal Alliance is not entirely opposed to the proposal either. And then I took note of that, and that's really what I think is the most worrying thing about this debate... that there seem to be politicians here in Parliament who wouldn't hesitate to make an agreement with the same content with the Danish press if you thought it necessary in this Chamber. In my opinion, it should be a matter for the Press Office programme to deal with, but now it is not certain that the Press Office will follow what is going on at the time. 18.05 a Tuesday evening in the Folketing. But some might inform them about it. Whether they would find it interesting or not, you don't know. If you're going to say something that nobody hears, it's usually said here in this room... it's obviously different with Facebook and Twitter. However, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116180715	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116180718	Thank you. I hear what's being said, always when mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says something. I agree that this is difficult; I also agree that Facebook has not quite found its legs. But the blockages that Facebook exposes others to were, after all, some that took place long before the EU code. For example, their intervention against nakedness was something they did long before. There, too, the European Union has been on the line and said: now we think you have gone too far. Facebook is slowly finding his legs. Facebook is finally recognizing that you are not just a technology platform, you are a media company and therefore also have some sort of responsibility for what is being put on the page. But basically, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth not that a private company, a private medium itself, decides what must be written as long as the law is not violated and that in other words, in principle, one is welcome to lower the bar than the bar resulting from the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116180833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116180834	Yes, but I do think it is interesting that the European Union's dogma in this area seems to be: just breasts, yes, Islamic criticism, no thank you. Well, I'd say yes to both if I could decide. I'll tell you what. But I would also like to say that I believe that what is at the heart here is the very question of whether the European Union should actively go in and say to a private company that it must comply with certain special rules, in other words that it must remove hateful statements, for example. The fact that the company itself is doing this is fine, but when a public authority goes in and makes such a kind of privatised censorship in Germany • overbuilt with these, I think, astronomically high potential fines • I think that's where the chain jumps off. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116180929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116180930	I'm thinking of maybe even combining the two things, just breasts and Islamic criticism. Maybe it could be a feature on "no," now I have to be careful. What I am asking for is, in fact, just an attitude, because there is no question of Islam criticism being removed. There is quite a lot of Islamic criticism on the Internet and, by the way, there is also the opposite, and there must of course be room for that. So what we're talking about here is this really hateful speech, which we've all agreed to fight together when we talk about, for example, this Islamic preacher of hatred that comes into the country. Does the Danish People's Party not recognise that social media is a platform that contributes to radicalisation and that we, including the European Union, must do what we can to counteract these very bad cases of radicalisation, whether on one side or on the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181032	Both, I'd say. In relation to Islamism, Facebook is hardly the primary organ. There's other places on the Internet you really get to meet these things. It's not on Facebook that Islamic State recruits, for example. On the contrary, I have read somewhere that they have actually withdrawn a little from those places. What is hate speech? I mean, threats of murder and something like that, it goes without saying. Threats of violence must be illegal. But to criticize and say that a practicer of a particular religion, for example. I think it is legitimate to have a tendency, at least if you look at the statistics, to have a higher crime rate than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181131	The next question is Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181134	I think we are getting a little closer to a core here, because I don't think it's really about who's editing whether it's the EU or whether it's national legislation. Kenneth Kristensen Berth thinks the cut should lie, because some of the examples that are mentioned had probably also occurred before this agreement and have nothing to do with the agreement, but is Facebook's own assessment. That's why I'd just like to ask if it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's position that Facebook should not edit or moderate, and if they are to moderate, what is the cut, how should the cut be put, and who should put it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181220	Look, I don't want to get involved in that. What I want to interfere with is that a political authority, the European Union, goes in and tells a private company how this private company should moderate its social media. Nor do I want to interfere in the way in which Politiken edits their discussion pages, and I would strongly recommend to the Danish Parliament, regardless of the reports that have been made during the day, not to do so, regardless of whether any Members may at some point feel compelled to do so, because it is therefore not a political task.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181303	Mrs. Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181305	I just think there's a little funny logic here because those examples, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth just doesn't add up because what this agreement is about is that Facebook has to moderate under national law, but the example, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth mentions that Pia Kjærsgaard says that Helle Thorning-Schmidt is stupid and naive. We agree that the legislation on racism is not being dealt with here. It's Facebook's own assessment. It's Facebook who says we don't want that kind of speech. This means that it has nothing to do with the European Union. But it's Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth also disagrees. So what is this really about today? It's about the fact that sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth disagrees with the cases where those with whom he agrees have been censored, for there is at least no other logic in the examples mentioned, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181358	I understand that Mrs Zenia Stampe does not think this is a problem, because Mrs Zenia Stampe is always a representative of the views of the elite, and the opinions of the elite are never censored. I could never imagine that neither Mrs. Zenia Stampe nor Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, yes, it should be if either of the two mentioned would undress and place such a picture on Facebook would be censored. It couldn't happen. So I understand that Mrs Zenia Stampe thinks this is irrelevant, but I just think that Mrs Zenia Stampe should see the bigger picture and see the problem of our freedom of expression being restricted with the help of the body that Mrs Zenia Stampe loves more than anything else on this planet, namely the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181444	I note that we in this Chamber can boast of a free debate in a proper tone. There's no more questioners. I would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181513	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Thomas Jensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181519	Thank you, President. The bill that we have to deal with here today is basically good, and in the social democracy we are in favour of a clear and comparable framework for our state companies. That is why we also support the conversion of the Growth Fund into an independent public enterprise, like for example. Export Credit Fund and Investment Fund for Developing Countries. A self-employed public undertaking traditionally carries out a certain part of the State administration and has independent income and wealth. The State ensures that there is an independent board of directors and a management board that exercises the strategic and day-to-day management of the company and employs employees. The Ministry of Owners ensures that the board composition, which is appropriate in relation to the business and situation of the independent public undertaking, overall follows and takes a position on the development of the company. In the case of the Growth Fund, we believe that it makes very good sense to transform it into an independent public enterprise. The specialised skills needed in the Growth Fund make the form of the enterprise quite usable. The bill we are considering has its starting point in the North Sea Agreement, which the Social Democratic Party entered into with the government, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF last year. The background to the North Sea Agreement was, and indeed is, that the Tyra field is in need. That's bad news because the Tyra field stands for up to 90 percent. of the Danish gas production, and by renovating the field it is expected that we will allow a large extra extraction of gas. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the North Sea Agreement. In order to get the renovation project to run around, we decided with the North Sea Agreement to reduce hydrocarbon taxation for all companies in the North Sea in the period 2017-2025, and this relaxation must be brought in elsewhere, and this bill is then intended to establish the legal basis for the state to take dividends from the Growth Fund in accordance with § 18, which we naturally support. But with the North Sea Agreement we have not allowed the government to cut the wings of the Growth Fund. The Growth Fund has done a very good job for Danish business. The Growth Fund has among other things: ensured that Denmark remains technologically and innovatively well on the wagon, e.g. The robot cluster in Odense is largely attributed to the Growth Fund. It was the Growth Fund that invested in the lighthouse of the robot cluster, Universal Robots, when others hesitated. Then I have not mentioned at all that the activities of the Growth Fund are of great importance to those parts of Denmark which have not been able to keep up with the growth that, for example, has been achieved. Been here in the metropolitan area. Indeed, the Growth Fund plays an important and patient role in financing growth and innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises, especially where private investors hesitate. That is why we are concerned that the draft law has placed restrictions on the loan possibilities intended to compensate the Growth Fund for the liquidity drain that the dividend payment will bring with it. We do not want the law to restrict the activity of the Growth Fund. The agreement, which forms the basis of the draft law, has agreed that the Growth Fund must be compensated for the liquidity drain left behind by the dividend policy. So let me make it clear: the Social Democratic Party supports the payment of dividends to the state, but the Social Democratic Party does not support the reduction of the wings of the Growth Fund, which is why the payment of dividends must not restrict the activity of the Growth Fund. We want it to be clearer in the draft law that the Growth Fund can finance its forward-looking activity within a total framework of a maximum of 1 billion. kr., and that cash flow drains are compensated for by the payment of dividends. Specifically, it is the wording on paragraphs 16 and 17 that I am somewhat puzzled about, and that is why I would like to place great emphasis on clarifying that part of the legislative proposal during the committee procedure. I would also like to say that the many worried hearings on the same paragraphs impress me very much. Danish Businesses, CSFs, IDA and many others are concerned and, unfortunately, in the consultation note, the Minister does not provide adequate answers to the questions raised by the consultation parties. That is why I believe that the Minister should remedy this during the committee procedure and give clear answers to the questions raised. With these words, I look forward to a constructive committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181939	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116181945	The Social Democrats' rapporteur referred to what the draft law is about. It is also true that it is a follow-up to the part of the North Sea Agreement that we have also been involved in in March 2017. It was between the government, the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF. With this bill, the Minister then proposes to ensure that there is hand in hand with the actual payment of dividends in relation to the fact that this is part of the financing of the new North Sea agreement. The Danish People's Party is part of the settlement. Of course, we are also quite clear in our view that it must be implemented. After all, I have also read some of the consultation answers we have received in connection with this draft law, and I am also somewhat surprised by some of the things that are being put forward. This applies, among other things, to: In relation to this, if you look at Section 17 of the Act, it says that the Minister for Finance must be authorised to allow the Growth Fund to take up a government loan with Danmarks Nationalbank of up to 1 billion. kr., in relation to if a liquidity crisis occurs under the auspices of the Growth Fund. We fully agree that, if crises arise, we must, of course, deal with them as they must be. The liquidity of the Growth Fund comes under pressure, for example in the context of a recession or a frozen venture market as it stands. I am also thinking of this, as some of the consultation answers mention: how do you assess it? Is it for the Minister alone to assess it, or is it for the parties to the agreement to assess it? What does the current Minister of Business put in a so-called frozen venture market, and what does a future Finance Minister put in a frozen venture market? What do you put in a definition of how far you have to go before it is called recession? When's the boom? When is the normal business cycle called? That would be interesting to know. That is why we are not particularly pleased with the part where it says that the Minister must have a ministerial authorisation. Nor do I believe that this is part of the agreement that has actually been reached, at least in relation to the financing agreement. If this is part of an implementation process, we would, of course, like to be involved in discussing it with the Minister, but we do not believe that we have agreed that there should be such an extended form of ministerial authorisation. In those words, of course, I hope that the Minister will take this into account, so that we can also get an answer to it. The Social Democrats' rapporteur referred to this in relation to section 16. I will not go into that further, but I hope, of course, that this will be clarified in the committee's examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116182245	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Erling Bonnesen as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116182257	Thank you. Since the rapporteur of the Left has been prevented, I have promised to present the rapporteur's speech, and it reads as follows: The main purpose of this bill is to secure funding for the North Sea Agreement, which was concluded between the Government and the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF on 22 March 2017. This is done in concrete terms by creating a legal basis for a dividend payment between the Growth Fund and the State, so that the return from the Growth Fund contributes to the financing of the North Sea Agreement. The draft law also gives the Growth Fund a new main law. The growth fund is basically intended to provide various sources of financing for particularly small and medium-sized enterprises which cannot raise capital on the private market. This may be due to the higher risk associated with the investment or the fact that the company's ideas are not so advanced that traditional loan options can be used. So the Growth Fund basically helps to secure funding that cannot be provided on market terms, immediately. However, as you know, the Growth Fund is not only well-intentioned loans, there must also be the prospect of a surplus being created, and the Growth Fund has done so successfully, and since the State has invested capital in the Growth Fund, yes, it is basically also a good idea that the State can benefit from the investment. It is important to stress that with the possibility of paying dividends it will continue to be possible for the Growth Fund to maintain the current level of investment in enterprises, provide guarantees, etc. This is highlighted among other things. the maximum rate of 50% of the yield may be paid. of the annual surplus. The proposal involves converting the Growth Fund into an independent public enterprise, a so-called SOV. This will in future provide a clear framework for the Growth Fund's activities and the State's ownership of the fund. It will also provide the most appropriate legal basis for the Growth Fund to contribute to the financing of the North Sea Agreement through the dividend payment scheme. The draft law also provides for a general alignment and reorganisation of the Growth Fund's legal basis, as well as a more unambiguous organisation of the Business Department's companies, most of which are established and operated as SOVs today. This makes everything else equal the legal framework for the operation of the Growth Fund more effective. The proposal also allows the Growth Fund to make use of the government lending facility within a framework of 1 billion. kr. in the event of a recession, etc. Access to the Reloan Scheme complements the existing possibilities available to the Growth Fund to finance its activities. Finally, the draft law provides for the return on future investments in the North Sea. Investment and development in the North Sea is of great benefit to growth and jobs in the oil and gas industries, and continuing investment in infrastructure gives the North Sea business a future. In this way, we not only ensure growth in industry, we also ensure that the oil reserves in the North Sea are extracted, and thus we also guarantee revenue for the Treasury. Against this background, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116182633	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116182647	In the Enhedslisten, we are generally very positive about the Growth Fund, which in fact is what the Right always says they are against: a publicly operated bank and, in fact, a publicly operated investment fund. It is positive that the State thus plays an active role in securing capital and investment for companies that cannot obtain capital in the normal way. However, in general terms, in relation to this draft law, this is a proposal that we are opposed to, because the proposal is about guaranteeing the financing of the tax rebate to A.P. The Danish works council, which follows on from the North Sea Agreement of March 2017, gave a tax rebate in the region of 5 billion. kr. over a number of years from 2017 to 2025. Funds are being moved with this bill, which could have been spent either on welfare or on start-ups and innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, and they will then be transferred to large established foreign companies operating in a climate-enemy industry, which we will probably only know in a few decades' time from the history books. The Growth Fund is interesting. It was established in 1991 and it invests in, provides loans, guarantees or guarantees to primarily small and medium-sized enterprises which cannot find financing under normal commercial conditions, and this is done directly or through funds and typically in cooperation with public and private investors. As I have said, we generally support the Growth Fund because it makes sense for the State to be able to enter actively and invest in companies which cannot obtain capital in the normal way, and it would of course be an advantage in particular if capital markets were to be frozen again and a new credit squeeze such as the one that arose in the wake of the financial crisis should arise. However, if we could make changes to the Growth Fund, we would like the Growth Fund to take greater account of social and environmental considerations in its investment policy. Since a change in law in 2001, the Fund has reduced loans and subsidies to companies and has instead increasingly started to invest in companies, which has contributed to the profits of the companies, and that is why the fund today has a surplus which can be paid out as dividends to the state. It's too bad that the dividends are paid out to A.P. The miller • Færsk on the basis of a tax agreement which is already far too favourable. It is a tax agreement that was made back in 2003 on the basis that the price of a barrel of oil would be $22, rising to $36 in 2042 but we have since seen the oil price rise tremendously, it reached as much as $100, while it now stands at around $50. The rise in oil prices has resulted in a billion profit after tax every year since the conclusion of the agreement in 2003, and on this basis it is also reprehensible to see how this extra tax rebate in March 2017 in connection with the renovation of the Tyra field meant that A.P. A further tax rebate was paid to the Danish company Mærsk, which was then used to steal the price up to A.P. The miller Mærsk, which is now planned to be sold to the French oil company Total. So that the Growth Fund is used in this way to give this tax discount is quite obscene. There are also other aspects of this bill that go beyond the North Sea Agreement, such as: The change of the fund from an independent public administration unit to an independent public enterprise would mean, for example, that: revenue and costs will not appear in the Finance Act. We are opposed to this, just as we are opposed to it when it is proposed that the public, the law on the Parliamentary Ombudsman, the administrative law and the Archive Act should no longer apply to the general work of the Growth Fund, while only staff cases and organisational matters should still be covered by these laws. Today, in practice, concrete activities of the Growth Fund are often excluded from access to documents, but this is done after a concrete assessment, but now the area should be excluded from access to documents in general. This is the Enhedslisten against, and I would also say that there should be a majority in Parliament against further tightening of the Public Service Act. Of the parties, there is no majority in favour of this further tightening of the public law or should not be. From the point of view of everyone other than the oil companies, this is an anti-business proposal. This weakens investment in our growth companies, and that is a fact. The sad thing is that some of the things in which the Growth Fund has actually succeeded in investing are our green technologies, our green businesses, but there will therefore be less money for them now. So we are discussing a proposal here which will take money from growth companies and entrepreneurs and transfer it to major oil companies. That is what we are discussing. It is business hostile, it is climate hostile, and it is the crowning achievement of a foolish agreement on North Sea oil, which the Danes are unfortunately going to suffer for many years to come. As the rapporteur may say, the Enhedslisten cannot support the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183221	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183225	Thank you, President. There is nothing new about what the rapporteur says on behalf of the Enhedslisten; we respect that, it is politics. However, I am just surprised that the rapporteur chooses, as many times as is practically possible, to go to the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament to specifically mention local Danish companies and accuse them of being both hostile, hostile and hostile. I did not hear the rapporteur say that they created jobs. I did not hear the rapporteur say that they had created apprenticeship and internships. I did not hear the rapporteur say that they actually also pay taxes in Denmark, which I know the Enhedslisten is very much concerned about. But the rapporteur used the word reprehensible, reprehensible, reprehensible and there I would like to ask the rapporteur: does not the rapporteur himself think it is so reprehensible that the Enhedslisten is so busy criticising someone who contributes and finances Danish welfare? For Enhedslisten wants to help spend the money when it comes to discussing finance law and discussing more money for youth education and universities etc. And everything else. We want to be involved in the use of the money, and the rapporteur does not think this is reprehensible. In my optics, it's just double standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183340	I find it hard to see what should be double standards in this. It is about having a Growth Fund that makes a profit, which is free money that can be spent on investments in new companies, in green technology, in robotic companies in Odense, or which you can use, as you choose in the wake of this bill and the North Sea Agreement, on a tax discount for black energy and companies that produce black energy or pull black energy out of the ground. I think that is the wrong priority. I really cannot understand why some parts of the economy, which are not multinationals and which are pulling black energy out of the ground, are being allowed to pay a tax rebate to these energy companies when, instead, the money could have been used for the development of new businesses. Well, that's business hostile, and I think so, sir. His Kristian Skibby had to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183434	I thank you for your answer, but I just didn't think there was an answer in it. In other words, the rapporteur used the word hostile, hostile, hostile, both on environment and climate as well as on everything else. But I just ask in general: how can it be that Enhedslisten would like to help spend all the money that these companies contribute, including on the bottom line when it comes to financing the Danish Finance Act? It's just to say that the Enhedslisten doesn't say no to those 24 billion. kr. from the black energy and the people you don't like etc. No, you don't do that in the Enhedslisten. You choose to say: yes, we want to take the money and we want to play Santa Claus and spend the money on all sorts of other chromed projects. That's what I'm accusing the Device List of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183520	I can confirm that Enhedslisten will not refuse to receive the tax payment from e.g. A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S in a situation where the tax payment is already far too low. That is, of course, the problem, namely that the North Sea agreement was made back in 2003, which was based on wrong assumptions, namely that a barrel of oil would cost USD 22 up to USD 36 in 2042, and that the price of oil would then be much higher. We can look at figures that we have received because we have asked many questions that Dansk Undergrunds Consortium, as A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S is part of, after tax gets paid 10 billion. kr. more per year than originally foreseen in the 2003 North Sea Agreement. Then we are dealing with a very favourable tax agreement, and then it is a problem to take money that could have been spent on entrepreneurship and use it to give an additional tax rebate to those companies. It is reprehensible, it is also crazy, and it is certainly not very business-friendly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183613	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183623	Thank you. The bill we are now considering is an expiry of the North Sea Agreement concluded between the Government, the DF, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. The aim of the bill is to create a framework for a return payment from the Growth Fund. I would like to start by saying that the whole idea of the Growth Fund is not an idea that has grown in our gardens. We believe that taxpayers' money should not be invested in private companies simply because the market does not want to invest in them. It is, of course, taking risks with the citizens' money, and we do not think that we should do so. Instead, we should think about capital taxation, so that more people invest in Danish companies. This applies both to other companies and to citizens. We think that is the way forward. However, we now have a Growth Fund, which is why we must also ensure that there is good regulation of it, that regulation is as appropriate as possible. This bill transforms the Growth Fund into an independent public enterprise. This allows the Growth Fund to start paying dividends to the state, which can thus help finance the North Sea Agreement. The bill gives the Growth Fund access to a maximum of 1 billion. kr. through the State Reloan Scheme. It comes on top of the approx. 6 billion DKK, which the Growth Fund can borrow on the market with a State guarantee. That the Growth Fund can borrow with a state guarantee should, of course, cause civil politicians to consider the whole structure, but we will have to take that debate another time. We can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183828	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116183839	Thank you. We can't back this bill in the alternative. There are several reasons. One is that we also want a green and progressive development of our business, and we do not see that in this proposal. We have said no to the agreement on additional investments in the North Sea through a tax rebate. We have talked a lot about this and we have also said that we would be very pragmatic in relation to the decisions that have already been taken in this Chamber. After all, we must go along with them and work on them constructively. So if there was something in this proposal that we thought was really interesting, despite the fact that investment will then be taken into account in the North Sea Agreement, then we had to look pragmatically at it and perhaps make a decision to support the bill anyway. However, the other elements contained in the draft law are not at present positive either. In fact, we do not welcome this channelling and this desire for there to be a return requirement with the Growth Fund, an institution that we really like in the Alternative, because it is a risky and established and respected institution in Denmark that makes it possible to prioritise innovation and innovation. That is why there is not much in this draft law that we immediately think is sensible. This may be the case in the committee's proceedings, but I am sensitive to the many critical consultation responses that exist and do not actually see that it benefits the Danish business community and entrepreneurship in particular. Some funds are being transferred to the Treasury, which we can use wisely, including: in the development of the North Sea Agreement, and we are so opposed in principle to that. The purpose clause for the Growth Fund is a small curiosity that you want to change so that it doesn't contain renewals anymore, but growth instead. And that's the Growth Fund, so there's really nothing wrong with that, but I'm thinking that the replacement of renewal with growth-- no, sorry, it's innovation and renewal-- It says "innovation and renewal" today, and then you want it to be "growth and renewal," I think. We also find this characteristic. Actually, we're not interested in that. It's just a word, but growth for growth's sake, to this end, we can see some risks. Innovation and innovation in such a good institution as the Growth Fund is particularly important for us to develop entrepreneurs and smaller companies in Denmark that can actually go out and create many new jobs. So alone the little trick of writing • growth • instead of • innovation • we think we are setting out a bad direction. So we are against in the alternative, but hope that we can see some positive elements during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116184132	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see the radical rapporteur in the Chamber. That is why we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116184152	After all, the purpose of the bill is to translate the part of the agreement that SF was also part of in relation to Nordsøolien. For this we need some funding, and there we have made an agreement that part of the funding must come from parts of the surplus of the Growth Fund, i.e. maximum. 50% The current legal basis for the Growth Fund does not allow any part of the surplus to be withdrawn, and that is why we are debating this bill today. However, when we are discussing the Growth Fund, I also have some comments and suggestions on it. As my colleague from the Enhedslisten said, it is, after all, a state bank that we are dealing with, and I often amuse myself there when we discuss these things, also in other areas, that one is told that such communism cannot even be considered. But we have several state banks in Denmark, and one of them is the Growth Fund, and on a number of parameters it has also been very successful. I think it was my Socialist colleague who said that this particular robotic adventure in Odense has grown to such an extent and has also secured a great deal of capital for the Growth Fund because of its success. One of the concerns that we have from the SF in changing the Growth Fund into a SOV is precisely this, as my colleague from the Enhedslisten also mentioned, that is to say that the rules for the public are being changed, and we think that would be a real shame, and I would also like to ask the Minister a few questions about that. For now it is precisely impossible to look for insight into the arrangements that may be in the Growth Fund. It is, of course, even if we now need to change the form of the company into a SOV, some state funds that we, I think, use for a very sensible purpose. I would like to say, however, that I think that, if you want an agricultural bank, you should do so for that purpose. I would just like to say here, when we are still discussing the Growth Fund today, that we see that a greater and greater proportion of the funds spent are spent on agriculture, and this is also a discussion that we have seen in some of the consultation answers, that is, that there has been a change from having been a very strong focus on innovation, that it is now growth and renewal, and that the Growth Fund needs to spend billions on securing agriculture. It may in itself be good enough to secure Danish agriculture, but is that the purpose of the Growth Fund? We don't think so from the SF, and if you're going to make this change of law anyway, we also think that you can write in more detail that there are a number of challenges in the coming years. That is why we think, in particular, that when you have the Growth Fund, you can make some commitments. Among other things: That is why we also support the Engineering Association, IDA's, proposals to write in the 17 world objectives as a commitment, but also to write in that there is a primacy for companies that lack capital and that have a social, green and sustainable focus. I would just like to come back to this lack of publicity when we turn the Growth Fund into a SOV and say that the more important I think it is also that a whistleblower scheme is being established. We have often discussed this in connection with the law on financial activities, and I think we could be happy to have it here. After all, there is a great deal of money and projects under the Growth Fund. Danish Industry also says in its comments that to ensure transparency about the operation of the Growth Fund, it may be useful to consider introducing a specific section in the annual report where the chosen risk profile is commented on. It is certainly a proposal that we would like to support from the SF in terms of creating transparency, but also in terms of publishing what kind of projects you have entered into. Those were the words for now. Of course, we support it. It is part of an agreement, but the agreement meant that we had to ensure that there could be some funding from the surplus of the Growth Fund, and yet, when we are in the process of doing so, we will also allow ourselves to table amendments in some of the other areas that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116184705	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116184713	Thank you for the floor. The aim of the draft law, as the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, is to implement the so-called North Sea Agreement, which is to ensure that the Tyra field is rebuilt so that we can create a basis for the two-digit billion investment in our oil and gas extraction in the North Sea. This is something that helps to ensure Danish exports, Danish tax revenues and Danish jobs and in the longer term also ensure increased Danish security of supply. The Conservative People's Party is included in the agreement, so that is something we can support, and of course we support the bill. The draft law also proposes that the Growth Fund should be transformed into an independent public enterprise, so that in future a clear framework can be established for Growth Fund enterprises. For example, the draft law also ensures that dividends can be paid to the state, and this is a prerequisite in relation to the financing of the North Sea Agreement. The overall purpose of the Growth Fund is not changed by the draft law, but it is simplified and modernised, and then the current purpose and legal basis of the fund is strengthened so that it is adapted to the tasks that the Fund is expected to have in the future. It is important for us that the Growth Fund does not compete with private investors or other sources of funding, and that is why it is also vital for us that the Fund can only provide funding for activities which would not be carried out without the help of the Growth Fund or that activities which are substantially accelerated by the participation of the Growth Fund will continue. It is also in the legislative notes, but it is certainly important for us that it is included. When you ask entrepreneurs what their biggest challenge is when they have to set up businesses or scale up an existing business, the answer is often that one of the biggest challenges is this venture capital issue, and that is why we too have a major focus on how we can bring even more capital into gambling for entrepreneurs and SMEs. That's also why we've been working for this investor tax credit and a reduction in investment tax, for example. in relation to a share savings account, and in general, of course, we are working for a lower capital tax so that we can have more activity and more investment in gambling. Of course, the Growth Fund also plays an important role in providing capital to develop our entrepreneurial enterprises and SMEs and, of course, also in cases where it is not possible in the free markets, but we also support this, of course, in those situations where, for example, there are situations in which the growth fund is not possible. is a recession or the venture markets are frozen, have an opportunity to step in and be able to ensure that Danish companies can finance themselves. That is also part of the draft law, and we support that too. But overall, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185007	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185011	Thank you. I would like to hear from Conservatives whether they can support the proposal from Danish Industry, that is to say that, in order to ensure transparency, a specific section of the annual report is introduced, highlighting the chosen risk profile, precisely in relation to the development of the Growth Fund portfolio.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185040	I think it is important to have transparency in relation to the risk profile chosen. I will not say 'yes' or 'no' to it in concrete terms, but I would say that this is something on which I also think it is essential to have a consideration. What you just have to keep in mind is that you might also quickly build up some bureaucracy when you have to document some things. So I would like to go into the discussion about it, but to stand here and say yes or no to it I will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185107	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185108	That's fair, too. In relation to bureaucracy, I would say that in an organisation such as the Growth Fund or a private company, a certain risk profile has been chosen for strategic reasons. So it's something you must have lying around you don't grope blindly, you obviously have a strategy on which way to go. And there I just think the question is whether this is something that we should know about, so that we can discuss whether we think it is going in the right direction, whether perhaps there is something that is going in the right direction, for example. will be too little focus on innovation and new businesses and perhaps too much focus on already established companies that need to grow etc., so that this is a discussion you can have, even if it becomes an independent public company.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185155	Well, of course you can. So, as I said in my reply before, I do not want to stand here and say whether we should stick to one or the other model, in terms of how to organise our risk profile or which strategy one chooses. A Board of Directors must also be appointed, which must be given the opportunity to set out guidelines. What I just think is important is that there is at least some flexibility in working relatively unbureaucraticly to invest in good Danish projects. I think that is the most important thing. And, of course, you also need to have an overview of what the risk profile is like, but how it's actually gonna be put together, we're not gonna have to decide right here and now. However, we look constructively at the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185233	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur and then I give the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185244	Thank you, I think, for the many positive comments. I have promised the Socialist rapporteur to say that the Radical Left can also support the proposal. It is very natural because it is an agreement that we have reached: the government, the Socialists, the DF, the Radical Left and the SF. After all, the whole objective is to create the right framework, the legal framework, for establishing a yield policy for the Growth Fund. With the bill here, the Growth Fund gets a new main law. In addition to creating a better framework for dividend payments, the proposal also aims to modernise, adapt and strengthen the legal framework for the Growth Fund and state ownership of the fund. The draft law includes converting the Growth Fund into an independent public enterprise. This will provide the most appropriate legal basis for the Growth Fund to contribute to the financing of the North Sea Agreement in the form of dividend payments within the framework of the Agreement. In order to ensure that the activities of the Growth Fund in cases where the company's liquidity comes under pressure, it may be that we will have a recession or a frozen venture market. At the same time, the Growth Fund has been promised access to the State re-loan scheme within a framework of 1 billion. kr. Here, too, I think it is important to point out, also in relation to what the Social Democratic Party mentioned during the discussion, and which the DF also mentioned in relation to section 17, that it is true that it is the Minister of Finance who formally arranges for the removal of re-loans from the National Bank, because the Minister of Finance has strict responsibility for the state's borrowing and debt, but in practice the Growth Fund is given the power to ask for the withdrawal of re-loans from the Minister for Business and Re-loans at the request of the Board of Directors of the Growth Fund. Access to the Reloan Scheme complements the existing possibilities available to the Growth Fund to finance its activities, including the possibility of borrowing up to 6 billion. kr. in the market with a State guarantee in the back to finance the issuance of growth loans, growth guarantees and responsible loans. So with this we contribute to responsible funding of the North Sea Agreement and at the same time create the modernised and effective framework for state ownership of the Growth Fund, which will help to support the future work of the Growth Fund. In those words, I look forward to the further examination of the draft law, and we can also raise some of the issues that have been raised by the rapporteurs here today, so that we have a constructive discussion of it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185521	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185525	Thank you. I have a number of questions, and these are also some of the proposals I mentioned, i.e. DI's proposals on transparency on the risk profile of the annual accounts, IDA's, i.e. the Engineer's Association's proposals on obligations to help solve the UN's 17 world objectives, and then a very specific question about this: there will now be an exception in relation to the public. That worries me a lot. After all, this is the way in which the Public Service Act has been put together, namely that this type of company will be completely excluded. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185612	If we take the latter first, I do not quite understand the question, because the Growth Fund has always been exempt from the Public Act in relation to commercial activities. These are commercial activities which, of course, can be kept to oneself if one is engaged in confidential negotiations. So there will be no change in that. With regard to the proposal, which DI has been forward with, on more transparency, I would say that I am always in favour of more transparency. This must be weighed down by the fact that the Growth Fund is constantly being evaluated, but at the latest it has also been evaluated, but I am willing to discuss whether more transparency can be created, because it is the state's money, and the more one can be open about it, the better. As a starting point, I am positive about as much transparency as possible. It must, of course, go hand in hand with the fact that we must be able to negotiate and we must be able to make some agreements without any of those we like to compete with having access to any information that they do not want to have access to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185714	Thank you. Then I would also like to ask a specific question now that we are discussing the Growth Fund. In recent years there has been a discussion that the Growth Fund became more and more an agricultural bank. From 2014 to 2017, there was a doubling to 2.5 billion. kr., which you shot in, and you helped secure funding of 10 billion. kr. for agriculture. This is really good for agriculture, it is not that discussion, but is it the right place? So, is it the Growth Fund that has to go in and be an agricultural bank in that way? I think that is a legitimate discussion to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185759	In the time I have served as a minister both in the last period and in this period, there has been no particular demand that something special should be done for any particular industry, for example. agriculture. But it is true that some structures have been constructed in terms of agriculture, when they were in great trouble a few years ago under the then S-RV-SF government, where a construction was created. The former V government was also a little concerned about this, but it is not the case that we have instructed the Growth Fund to take special account of specific sectors. I think that the Growth Fund is there to support some projects that the traditional banking system cannot support, and they do that very well. This can also be seen with the success they have had with the investments they have made, how many of them would not have gone in a proper way if the Growth Fund had not gone into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185854	Thank you to the Minister for Business. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185908	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Erik Christensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116185930	Thank you. After all, the bill is made up of two parts. The first part of the bill concerns merging the Maritime Safety and Health Council and the Maritime Safety and Health Council into a new council called the Maritime Safety and Health Council. It is thus that the two councils already share an address today, and both have in fact made a wish for a merger themselves. The reason for the bill is to achieve synergies and thus save costs and common administration and to offer better welfare and working conditions for seafarers. It is also the case that, in order to ensure the future of the economy of the new Council, the draft law also provides for a price and wage adjustment of the tax levied by the Council on shipping companies and seafarers from 2022 onwards. It is important for the Social Democratic Party that the bill does not change the tasks and changes the focus of the seafarers' working environment. The new Maritime Safety and Welfare Council will continue to promote the physical and mental health of workers, prevent damage to the working environment, including accidents at work and wear and ensure the organisation of the working environment on board. At the same time, the new Council is required to set up a health and safety service within its territory. As the draft law on the merger of the two councils is intended solely to create synergies and reduce administrative costs, and as this does not alter the tasks of the new Council to ensure the safety and safety of seafarers on board, and as the new Council also ensures that there is equal representation of workers on board and employers, the Social Democratic Party can support that part of the bill. The second part of the bill provides for a reduction in the tax on registration of small commercial vessels. The proposal will, above all, ease the burden on coastal fishing and the smaller merchant fleet and create a better framework for these industries. The proposal should also be seen in the light of the negotiations that have been held in the Ministry of the Environment and Food with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF on a growth and development package for Danish fisheries, where there has been a focus on creating a better framework for coastal fishing. The proposal covers commercial and fishing vessels with a gross tonnage of less than 30. This means that commercial and fishing skippers with a gross tonnage of less than 30 will have to pay an annual fee of DKK 300 in future, and the proposal will then mean that ships with a gross tonnage of less than 20 will have reduced the tax by DKK 500. annually, and ships with a gross tonnage of between 20 and 30 will have the tax reduced by DKK 1,300. annual. The proposal covers a total of approx. 3,000 ships with a gross tonnage of less than 30. Recreational craft are not covered by the bill to reduce the tax. It has been important for us in the Social Democratic Party, in the negotiations that have taken place on the fisheries growth and development package, to facilitate the framework conditions for coastal fishing, so we can of course also support that part of this bill. In other words, the Social Democratic Party supports the entire bill, and at the same time I must also announce on behalf of the Radical Left that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116190224	Thank you, sir. Erik Christensen. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116190232	The draft law contains what the Social Democrat rapporteur actually went through minutely, and since it contains only two relatively uncomplicated elements, I can do so quickly. But that should not change the fact that it is a legislative proposal which is both sensible and well thought out. The debureaucratisation alone, which, after all, is that you have two different councils put together for a council, but with the same, unchanged tasks that exist in the two current councils, it helps to streamline the functioning of the councils, and of course the Danish People's Party also supports this. So that's a good element. The second point in the agreement is that we will have to reduce these taxes on small recreational craft, as is typically the case where people pay a tax for having small ships with a gross tonnage below 30. So far, they have typically paid about 800 kroner. in order to have those ships, and many of them have quite a modest annual turnover on their vessels, perhaps only DKr 8,000 to 10.000. One might think that it is quite modest to reduce the tax from 800 to 300 DKK, but I think that everything else is equal, because we should be glad that it will be a little cheaper for these typically recreational fishermen, and it is the coastal part of it that will benefit because it is the smaller vessels. So the Danish People's Party is very pleased with this part of it, and we also think it is good that we get the two things put in place relatively quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116190426	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116190437	Thank you. Since the permanent rapporteur of the Left in this area is prevented from being here, I have promised to present the rapporteur's speech. It reads as follows: With this bill we streamline the operation of the Maritime Safety Council and the Maritime Safety Council by merging the two councils. In this way, the functions of both Councils will be carried out by the same persons and uniform procedures will be established. This will benefit both the seafarers and the shipping companies, and this will be done at the request of both organisations. It is therefore specifically proposed that the Maritime Safety and Health Council should be abolished and the tasks undertaken by the Maritime Safety and Health Council under the applicable law will then be carried out by the Maritime Safety and Health Council. In addition, this proposal will adjust the annual tax collected from shipping companies and seafarers to finance the Council's activities. At the same time, the proposal will ease the financial burden on the owners of the smaller commercial and fishing vessels. This is done by adjusting the annual fee paid by owners of ships registered in the Danish Register of Shipping to reduce the payment for ships with a gross tonnage of less than 30. There are approx. Three thousand ships will benefit from this proposal. The proposal stems from the agreements on Danish fishing, which have been negotiated in the past. The reduction in payment will ease the burden on smaller vessels and thus strengthen the framework conditions for them, and this will apply, for example, to single-man vessels, also in coastal waters. The Left is in favour of us constantly assessing whether public institutions, bodies or reduced councils can be operated more effectively, and by bringing together the tasks of the Maritime Welfare Council and the Maritime Safety Council, the tasks will continue to be solved, but now in a common body instead of two. Better business environment is always an objective for us in the Left, which is why we can, of course, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116190644	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116190650	Thank you. With the very thorough and clear examination which the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Erik Christensen, come along, and there's not much more to add from Enhedslisten's side. I must add, however, that the merger of the Navy's Welfare Council and the Maritime Safety Council is clearly supported, as the consultation answers show, by the professional organizations in this area, which are well represented on both councils, and that is why the Enhedslisten certainly supports it. The second part of the proposal concerns an adjustment, as it is so nicely called, but it is a reduction in the fees for small vessels to support, among other things. Inshore fishing, which is at the heart of the Enhedslisten, so we naturally support that too. Let me just make one small comment, because it is clear from the consultation note that the original draft law, which was submitted for consultation, also included a draft law on stricter rules for speedboats, water scooters and similar vessels. I am really glad that it was tampered with, so it comes to a separate treatment. And it just has to be such an ordinary complaining remark that we often get into this, which isn't a bunch of shit, but the fact that you bunch these bills; that's what I'm talking about (fourth Vice-President Yes, I get it!). Yes, it's good that the President is up here all the way up here, so that you have these joint laws where you can be for one thing or another. In fact, it can also be said about this bill that the two things relating to the adjustment or reduction of the fees for the smaller vessels and the merger of the Maritime Welfare Council and the Maritime Safety Council have absolutely nothing to do with each other. I mean, it's just, as I said, such an ordinary complaining remark that I think it's too often that we get into it. Now it is not a problem here because we support both and these are relatively uncomplicated proposals. But it's just for the general information of the thing that I go and get mad about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116190913	I think we certainly thank you for that. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116190919	Well, it's exciting that you often get into a lot of trouble in Enhedslisten; after all, it's so exciting not to be a member of LA. However, this is a good little draft law, in which two councils are put together: the Welfare Council of the Merchant Navy and the Maritime Safety Council. We are of the opinion that we have far too many councils and boards in Denmark, where too many people are carrying out good wages without me being absolutely sure that taxpayers get so much out of it all, so we should really close down some councils. But now we put two together, and then there is one less, and of course we can support that. Then there is also the second part of the bill, which is also very good, perhaps even the best. That is to reduce the tax paid by owners of small ships registered in the Danish shipping registers. It is reduced for 800 kr. 300 kroner. However, it is a small step in the right direction. So, overall, this is a bill that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191034	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191039	As a starting point, we are also very positive about the draft law. I usually point out if we have short notice when we get things for review and for processing, and this time I ran a little bit, because I think it was a little short notice we got when this was moved forward, but it is actually to allow us to have a better reading in committee, so we have a little more time before we have to go to the third reading. So that's fine, too. We have a few questions in relation to some funding with this merger, but there are positive voices all over the place, also in relation to the Working Conditions Committees, so the starting point of the alternative is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191116	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191131	After all, we had such a good and thorough examination of the proposal when the Social Democrat rapporteur was in the Chair that I will not go over it, but simply say that we in the SF support both parts of the draft law and both the aggregation of the two councils and the adjustment of the annual fee for small commercial vessels we think is a very good idea. I heard it a little as if the alternative were concerned about funding. We really think that it seems to be a very solidarity balance that has been found in this, so there are no problems on the part of the SF. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191217	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Anders Johansson, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191223	Thank you very much. As has already been mentioned, this draft law contains two elements: on the one hand, the merger of the Maritime Safety Council and the Maritime Welfare Council and, on the other hand, the reduction of the annual fee for small commercial vessels, and on the other hand, both are of course something that the Conservative People's Party can support. In relation to the merger of the two councils, it seems quite natural and obvious that when they already have tasks that overlap, and they are at the same address, we must of course reap the efficiency gains and synergies that it may be possible to reap by adding the two councils together. As can be seen from the consultation answers, they are on the part of the Council itself prepared to do so and support this merger. Of course, compared with the annual fee for small commercial vessels, this is something that we are very positive about. We generally work to ease the burden on Danish business and, above all, on small business. Of course, we also want to ensure better competitiveness, so when we propose a reduction in the annual registration fee, we are of course positive about it; in fact, it also goes a little further naturally than the registration fee on the slightly larger ships that we have just agreed in the business and entrepreneurial package must be abolished. So, with these comments, I would like to say that we also support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191347	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we've reached the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191352	Thank you for all of the proposals contain two elements which several speakers mentioned, on the one hand, the merger of the Navy's Welfare Council and the Maritime Safety Council, to which the industry itself is very favourable, and, on the other hand, the reduction of the annual fee for small commercial vessels. The aim of the merger proposal is to make the management of the councils more efficient; it makes sense that the functions of both Councils can be performed by the same persons, and it has given rise to a potential for efficiency and will benefit both the seafarer and the shipowner. It is not intended to change the tasks of the Council. The current payment for the functioning of the councils is also assumed to be continued for the new Council, but in order to ensure the future of the economy of the new Council, the proposal does contain proposals for a price and wage adjustment of the tax payment to the new Council from 2022. The draft law also proposes to adjust the annual fee for small commercial vessels; the tax paid annually by owners of ships registered in the Danish International Ship Register is proposed to be reduced in order to reduce the financial burden on small commercial and fishing vessels. This then means that we will have a contribution to better framework conditions for, for example. coastal fishing. The proposal is therefore also in line with the negotiations that the Socialist rapporteur has also mentioned, which has taken place in the Ministry of the Environment and Food, about a growth and development package for Danish fisheries. We expect that approx. 3 000 ships will benefit from the proposal. I look forward to the further examination of the draft law, thank you for the many positive comments and, of course, will be available to the committee if further questions arise. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191544	With that, we can thank the Minister for Industry. It was quite fast that agreement was reached on that bill. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180116191600	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 17 January 2018, at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
