ParlaMint-DK_20181120130009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 113 (Proposal for a law amending the law on guardianship, the law on elections to the Folketing, the law on registration and the law on the Central Register of Persons). Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 114 (Proposal for a Law amending the Income Tax Act, the Tax Tax Act, the law on equations and various other laws. Bill No. L 115 (Proposal for a Law amending the Property Assessment Act and various other laws. Jesper Petersen (S), Henning Hyllested (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Ida Auken (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and others.: Bill No. L 116 (Proposal for a Law amending the Registration Tax Act. Trine Torp (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 45 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the incorporation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child into Danish law). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Karina Adsbøl (DF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 46 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of full compensation for employees who have been subjected to violence at work). Øjvind Vilsholm (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 47 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on compulsory lists of contents for toys). Pia Adelsteen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 48 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility for several organizations to raise a conservation case and on early information for pilot owners). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I must inform you that it cannot be ruled out that a vote will be taken on paragraph 7, second reading of L 38.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130223	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130229	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130314	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130320	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130359	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130404	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130430	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130516	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130523	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130539	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130559	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130643	The Minister for Transport, Building and Housing has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 6 of the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120130657	Then you could hear that there was an amendment that went out of history. I think it is a little thought-provoking that we had two amendments a day ago which significantly alter this draft law. Some agreement has apparently been made on Friday, which has led to a hoof legislation, and some changes have been made to the possibilities for the Minister to grant derogations. Municipalities and housing associations are required, if this law is adopted, to reduce the number of general family homes to 40%. Now it is added that if you have some residential areas in these hard ghettos, as some call them, 16 areas, there is a possibility that if there are less than 2,100 residents, and if the so-called ghettoist criteria for much crime are not hit, you can enter a process where you do not end up removing 60%. of the general family housing. Then it may be that you can make a derogation application, so you end up at 50 or 60%. general family residences. I think it is interesting if it is the democratic process that has led to a majority finding that there were too many shortcomings in the so-called parallel society package that are on the way to adoption. However, it is not clear from the amendments what is the history behind it. What kind of meetings have been held last Friday, who has taken part, who will have the credit for these two amendments? It might actually be interesting to know, for example. at second reading. What's the reason you're going to put this incision right over here at the 2,100 people? Why is it not 2,134, because then perhaps there could be another housing association that could benefit from this amendment? We can also imagine many other options in the case of derogations, because the criteria put forward here are not reasonable, and that is what the debate has reflected, for example. this criterion of looking at what the residents' income is, compared to what it is on average in that region. In fact, when you deal with the Copenhagen area, you come to the conclusion that if someone lives on the high daily allowance rate, then they count among the poorest of the residents. Is that a sign that they are a problem? You can't say that exactly. So there is every possibility that we could actually come up with reasonable justifications for not removing 60%. of the general family housing. I think this case is deeply grotesque. Could it be imagined that there was a majority in the parliament who didn't like the parcelhouse neighbourhoods with family residences and that a majority in the parliament then went out and said that they would now remove 60%. of these family homes, because you don't like the residents out there, and then you came up with legislation to ensure that it happened? That would be quite absurd, but that is what is happening in the attack on the general sector which is taking place here at the second and third readings scheduled for this week. It is an attack on the general sector as a whole, because with what is being adopted here, we do not know what the next areas will be on these lists, which some will call hard ghettos. It is so absurd and it does not solve anything to point the finger at residential areas and scold them. What needs to be done is because there are some areas where there are problems, for example. employment is, after all, an employment effort, and it has been deeply absent in the process of reaching agreements against parallel societies. The Housing rapporteurs received a report yesterday which examines these 16 areas on which special legislation is now being drawn up, and I really wish we could have a good hearing on these areas. These are residential areas which are in a process where in some places three-digit millions of dollars have been spent on renovating the homes, and now you are faced with the situation of having residential areas that have been renovated, where people have recently agreed to move back in. However, it may now be possible, among other things. in Fredericia, seeking derogation, then only 40%. the housing is removed. I understand that the general housing sector is not satisfied with it, because it is not an end in itself to the removal of ordinary housing. The position of the Enhedslisten is that we should have more general housing, but that is not what this bill is going towards. We're going to have a conflict situation where these 16 areas are going to have to get into a process and draw up a settlement plan for their settlement. We're gonna have lots of conflicts about this, and then they're gonna have to come up with some plan on 1 July. And if they don't partner right, there's a chance that their residential areas will be expropriated. When I look at the note made about the constitution and the general housing, it is my conclusion that the constitution is very fine, but it just does not apply to residents of general construction. I think that is a disgrace, and I do not think that these two amendments are going to correct it at all. What will happen to the proposal here? Yes, I think there is good reason for having a committee procedure to deal with this. What are the consequences of the two amendments? Is it true that this is something that could perhaps benefit five residential areas, and what is the factual and professional reason why the cut is just about 2,100 residents? I have not been able to read this from the report which has been circulated to Parliament in the last 24 hours. These are quite unfair conditions. If we imagine that this committee should be between the second and third readings here in the next two days, then that is what we are proposing in the Enhedslisten, namely that there should be a referral back between the second and third readings so that the Folketing can know a little better what is going to be adopted. However, it is unfortunately the case that we will be voting on those amendments shortly, and then they will be adopted and they will be part of the law, and of course you will have the opportunity to vote it all down on Thursday. It could also happen that Lars Løkke saves us and issues elections before the law was passed. One can hope that there will be a good solution right at the last minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131401	Thank you. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen is the prime minister. There's now Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen proposed that the examination of Bill No. L 38 is stopped and the proposal is referred back to committee. The debate on interruptions shall take place in such a way that each rapporteur may speak in favour or against interruption. And the speaking time is 1 minute. Sir. Villum Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131434	Thank you. All I have to say is that I do not think there is any evidence in time that we can postpone this matter. What happened last Friday can best be explained as a compromise. This is a well-known opportunity in the political game. And I understand from the Minister that it is actually not possible to carry out a second reading. We need new ghettoists on December 1st, I think it's nodded. So I suggest we reject this now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131517	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Sir. René Gade, the alternative, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131534	Our rapporteur is not here today, but I would also like to argue that we will have a postponement. It came into our hands yesterday, and the debate could so much need to come back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131548	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131554	Thank you. The Radical Left can support the proposal to refer the bill back to committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131603	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131614	The proposal for referral back to committee shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 18 (EL, ALT and RV), against 86 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. We shall then resume the debate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131654	Does anyone wish to speak on the proposal? There is no... No one else has asked for the floor, so we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131737	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF) and on Amendment No 1. 4 and 5, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of ALT and RV)? The amendments have been adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 8 and 9 outside the report by the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing as adopted. They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF). It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee...
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131915	I see sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen... here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120131917	Thank you. It is, of course, difficult to deal with, and frankly I was a little disappointed just now by the fact that it is difficult to stay within the Rules of Procedure about it in relation to the use of language ■ that Parliament will not even allow, when there are two quite far-reaching amendments, that one can then have it, what to say, discussed in a committee procedure. This could have happened today or tomorrow, and then we could have the third reading on Thursday. And then, on a basis that was perhaps a little more enlightened, the Folketing would come to a decision. But then the Folketing didn't want to. And I could understand it if that was the case on 21 December and it was thought that nothing came of it and that we did not have time for it. But to deal with legislative proposals here which concern the housing of the million Danes living in general housing, and then you will not even allow room to discuss two amendments which have apparently been agreed at some meeting last Friday and which have then been written into a report here yesterday and have been sent out to the members of the Danish Parliament around 8 p.m. 12 noon yesterday you will not allow that to be discussed. I think it's strange. With this bill, L 38, I think it is a very big problem that legislation lays down...
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132053	According to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to re-examine what has just happened but not to re-examine the proposal. Meaning? ) This means that the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132110	Well, look at that. Well, if this case can help the Danish Parliament get its procedure under control, I think it's very good. That there is no room for political debate It is not right here that this is happening). Not here? No, it's good that there's a debate...
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132154	I must ask the rapporteur to go down. That is what the rapporteur wanted. Then we'll vote on it. And a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 17 (EL, ALT and RV), against 84 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Then the bill goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132346	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132401	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132416	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132446	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132504	The aim of the bill here is to ensure that tax rules are made more robust in relation to so-called trusts, which can potentially be used for tax evasion because they are in a legal grey area and not as such have existed in Danish law. The bill follows up on the recommendations made by the Danish Tax Council on trusts in the report • Strengthened efforts against tax havens • Trusts • from March 2018. Amendments to the Fund Tax Act and the Equalisation Act are proposed. First of all, a little about the history of it: the Tax Law Council, which has made some recommendations which are being translated into a legislative proposal now and hopefully quickly into legislation, was adopted in the context of a broad agreement in the Danish Parliament on legal certainty package II, in which we have thus obtained a council that can be consulted on various parts of our tax legislation. Fortunately, when it succeeded in creating a majority that forced negotiations on strengthened action in tax havens, one of the tasks assigned to the Tax Law Council was to look at various elements of the legislation that could make Denmark more robust in avoiding tax evasion and tax havens, and one of them, among other things. So we made a trick out of dealing with this question of trusts. After all, a trust is a special construction, which is particularly common in the Anglo-Saxon Common Law countries and, of course, in their overseas territories, and is one of the notoriously notorious features of being used to evade tax in a large-scale way through tax havens and through this kind of fund construction. There is a founder who transfers assets to another person, a trustee, with instructions to manage the assets for the benefit of one or more beneficiaries, beneficiaries, and the whole question of who ends up being the real owner of these funds is one of the uncertainties that can be used to avoid paying the correct tax. The tax minister says in the bill that it aims to follow up the recommendations contained in the Tax Act report and thus a number of changes with a new legal basis for the taxation of trusts administered from Denmark. We must therefore avoid the situation where a trust established abroad but administered from Denmark ends up not paying tax anywhere. There are new rules to address situations where a trust is qualified differently in Denmark and other countries. There is a question of imposing a deposit tax of 20%. on tied capital without capital owner, and that the protective rule of Paragraph 16 K of this Act is extended, so that the rule also applies to spouses or other related persons, and so that it can be applied regardless of the fact that the founder or the depositor has never been fully liable for tax. In short, there are some measures that make Danish legislation more robust, as we like to call it, in order to avoid abuse of these trusts. It is not good to know what has happened in the meantime. There are not really any figures on what we may have missed in Denmark because of these uncertainties about the taxation of trusts, but that is an essential part of the problem in terms of reducing the use of tax havens and ending tax evasion that costs European countries billions of dollars every year. It is quite obvious, and we are pleased that we have helped to provoke this study by the Tax Law Council and that we are now getting the implementation of these sensible measures in the law. So we fully support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132848	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132855	As was also mentioned by the previous rapporteur, the reason for this bill is that some time ago we made an opinion on the legal security package II. In which one of the elements is that the Tax Law Council was established, which we could ask to examine various parts of our tax legislation. The first task it got was actually to look at the use of tax havens and whether the Danish rules were robust and durable enough to avoid it. The Council issued a report in March 2018 in which they made a large number of clear recommendations regarding the use of trusts. This is what is reflected in this draft law, with which we will have it tightened up and made the Danish rules somewhat more robust, and in this way we will also be able to avoid losing tax revenue because people are wondering over that road. We think this is quite reasonable, so I can say from the Danish People's Party that we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132954	Thank you. No one has any comments. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120132958	Thank you for the floor. As the previous rapporteurs have said, the draft law here follows up the recommendations contained in the Tax Act's Trusts Report, which is called "Street action against tax havens', which dates from March 2018 and has been published in connection with the submission of the bill. As was also mentioned by others, the Tax Law Council was set up when we entered into an Agreement on Legal Security Park II • The citizen must be stronger and when in May 2017, all parties in the Danish Parliament concluded the agreement to strengthen efforts to combat international tax evasion, we asked the Tax Code Council to look into how we could ensure sufficiently robust Danish rules, including the handling of trusts, and whether the new rules on the taxation of the founder of trusts provide an adequate safeguard. Trust is, in fact, an Anglo-Saxon concept for the fund and has therefore not previously been mentioned in Danish legislation. That is why it must now be ensured that it is included in Danish legislation, so that we guarantee citizens' rights, but also ensure that there is a common understanding of the concept and the taxation of trusts. In this way, we can also close any possible loopholes in the legislation. So we are taking advantage of the advice we have set up, namely the Tax Law Council, for the first time here by ensuring that they provide us with an expert committee analysis of good and sensible tax legislation in relation to trusts. More specifically, the draft law presents a number of new rules that help to make the applicable rules in the area more robust. First of all, a trust must be taxed in accordance with the rules laid down in the Fund Tax Act. It is proposed that a trust be taxed in the same way as a fund, in other words according to the general rules of tax law. With the legal basis there will be consistency and control over the taxation of trusts administered from Denmark. It benefits both the founders and the Danish state. In addition, new rules will be introduced to deal with situations in which a trust is qualified differently in Denmark and in another country. At present it is the case that a trust is qualified differently in Denmark and in many other countries, and this can be problematic. We therefore consider it quite fair to introduce new and more robust rules in order to avoid forgery and complications in relation to the tax treatment of cross-border trusts. In addition, we are introducing a tax on tied capital without a current shareholder. It is proposed that a deposit fee be imposed, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, on tied capital without current capital owner or interest payer when the capital is tied by a Danish taxable natural or legal person. It is proposed that the deposit fee should be 20%. of the tied capital. However, the deposit fee shall be subject only to annual bans exceeding DKK 10,000. In addition, we are introducing a more robust safeguard clause on taxation when establishing trusts. The draft law also makes the safeguard rule more robust when it comes to the taxation of trusts that are created, and in this way we ensure that Danish taxation cannot be circumvented by establishing trusts abroad. Finally, we provide for trust transactions to be covered by the arm's length principle, and it is therefore proposed that taxpayers who have entered into a trust or deposited amounts should be taxed on the income from the trust, thus avoiding the possibility of parents speculating on money in the trust. We in the Left are pleased with this report and we are pleased with the lighting of a very complicated legal area, and we can therefore support the bill. I welcome the Conservative rapporteur, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be present, and say that the Conservatives also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133329	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133336	This is the expiry of the tax havens agreement in which all the parties of the Folketing were involved and which we are very pleased about. Combating tax havens has been a matter for us in the Enhedslisten for many years, just like the fact that many companies, due to various gaps in tax legislation year after year, can avoid paying zero or almost zero dollars in taxes using tax havens and the opportunities that are associated with it. It is also one of the tricks that can be used to avoid paying to the community in this context. The tax havens agreement that we made has launched a number of good but also necessary initiatives to combat the harmful tax havens of society. We are far from achieving this, but it has to be said that we are actually strengthening the legislation in these years, and things are moving in the right direction. We've got one of them. It is also better managed to register the real owners, i.e. those who are actually behind a company and who should not be able to hide behind strawmen or others to hide where the fortunes come from or where they are going. This helps to strengthen the basis for us to pay the tax to our common fund that is to be paid. So, of course, we also support this proposal. There are very many good initiatives in the Tax Law Council's report on trusts. This is a complex area which is also foreign to many citizens of our country, since it is abroad that this form is used in particular. So it is the case that trusts should not be used to avoid tax payments, and the bill merely involves tightening the legislation. It is therefore a good bill, and the Enhedslisten can of course support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133540	Thank you. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133550	I believe that everyone can agree that we need good safeguards so that we can avoid trusts being used for tax evasion in Denmark. So it is only good that we have clear rules in place so that we do not leave any scope for circumventing these rather complicated conditions. So, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133613	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133616	As my colleagues have said, it is, of course, in order to address the abuse of trusts and potential tax havens. In the alternative, we are pleased with the cooperation in the Folketing that we must have done something about this, and we are in complete agreement and it has only just begun, as one of my colleagues said. I just wanted to say that I don't think we'd have come this far if there hadn't been whistleblowers. I don't think we would have gotten as far as we are now if it hadn't got a massive focus here from Christiansborg from several parties. So my call is: if you experience something that you don't think is the way it should be, if it conflicts with your own integrity, then, although difficult, you have to say no. We must have created some systems so you can say no. This is true if you are here in the Folketing or if you are in a municipality and you do not think that you can provide the services to the citizens you must, or if you are in a private company and actually think that you are doing something bad for society. It is not necessarily certain that you can do so. You also need to think about your own security and how you can move on yourself. However, if you have the opportunity to do so, that is what is currently making it possible for us politicians to make good decisions and perhaps to correct a system that is destructive to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133726	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133733	This bill is a very good example of the co-operative government, because whether you want higher or lower taxes, we all agree that people have to pay the tax that we have agreed and not cheat and evade it. Unfortunately, we see a number of examples of how much, very large amounts are being moved around between countries in a way that does not pay taxes. That is why we sat down, all parties, and looked at various initiatives we could take here in Denmark, but also at EU and international level. One of them was to ask the Tax Bill Council to look at trusts, and they have then come up with a report with various initiatives that you can take. These are the initiatives contained in the legislative proposal here, and we are happy to support them so that we can get the best possible rules to avoid tax evasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133833	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133849	My colleagues have explained the proposal so well, which is indeed the result of the report of the Tax Council. I think it is very good that we have a Tax Law Council and, of course, it is always a political decision at the end of the day what we should do. Although the problem of trusts is not very present in Denmark, it is something that we can see is a major challenge in other countries. That is why I also think it is timely care to introduce this legislation and tighten it up. And SF can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133931	No one has wanted to comment, and then it is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120133943	Thank you. As I heard, all the parties in the Folketing support the bill, and there is no reason why I, as a minister, should be standing here and explaining the content, as several tax rapporteurs have done very well here from the platform. Just because something is repeated several times does not necessarily make it any more right, but in this case it is now true what everyone has said, namely that the Tax Law Council, which we have jointly set up as part of a broad political agreement between all parties in the Folketing to combat illegal tax evasion and tax havens, has made a recommendation to clear up this issue of trusts, which is a way of perhaps legally, perhaps illegally, at least it is a clear grey area that can avoid paying taxes, among other things. by creating trusts; I think it is most known from Britain. After all, we are at a time when what we must expect from citizens and businesses is that they comply with the law. But I also think that in view of what you see with money laundering in the banks and profit tax in the tax area it is important to remind the Danish business community about it. Fortunately, most people have understood this, but some people are still missing who do not understand that just because something is legal, it may well be a commercially unwise decision; wise on the short track, unwise on the long track. There you do yourself a disservice if you move into the grey area and engage in aggressive tax planning, which may be legal on the day you do it, but you get hit by a reasonable public debate afterwards about whether what you have done is morally justifiable. And that's why you have to think carefully. What is legal is not necessarily wise, and if you do not think about it, you will at least come in a situation where legislators will intervene and tighten up the rules. We have done so in a number of areas in my time as tax minister with broad support from the Danish Parliament and I would like to sign for that where we have closed gaps where something was legal, but unreasonable, and it has been done illegally, so we have restored reasonableness in our tax payment. And that is not fair, as the Tax Council also points out, that trusts can be used to avoid paying the right tax and a reasonable tax in Denmark. That is why I am also pleased with the support and would like to acknowledge the reception that has been given here in the Parliamentary Chamber today. I look forward to a good and hopefully thorough examination of the bill in the Tax Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134245	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134311	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134318	Thank you. This bill is, after all, the implementation of the very broad energy agreement we made just before summer. And it can be said that where so far energy agreements have had the primary purpose of ensuring that we produce very much green energy, this energy agreement aimed both at producing even more green energy, but also at improving the use of it. As regards the first, that is to say on green energy, we in the Social Democrat Party are glad that we got the boost on renewable energy expansion, but we also agree with the government that we need to do something to ensure that we are better at using it. One of the places where we need our green wind power is in the district heating sector. It is therefore a very, very important element to reduce the tax in order to use green electricity in heat production. This is what this bill helps to secure, but of course there are also other places where it can be beneficial to have green power squeezed in instead of the black energy sources we are using today. That is why there is also a gradual reduction in the general electricity tax. It is generally a step in the right direction, so we maintain Denmark's leading position in this area. It is clear that I could make a long speech about the content of the energy conciliation and the discussions we had there. However, with regard to the draft law we have before us today, where we have to ensure the electrification of district heating and, moreover, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, which translates the agreement we are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134459	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134517	As I have said, this bill is the implementation of the energy agreement, which all parties were part of, so I can already reveal now that we are probably voting in favour, as the other parties probably do. The agreement contained a great many good measures, some of which are being implemented here. This is among other things. the reduction of the electricity tax and the electric heating tax and then the advance of the reduction of the green cheque. Indeed, the fact that we are lowering the electricity tax and the electricity tax is a very good idea from the Danish People's Party. This can help electrify our society and ensure a green transition, so that we among other things. to a greater extent may use heat pumps for our heating houses. It is also quite reasonable that we have a high level of renewable energy, among other things. wind turbines, but it is equally crucial that we also use the energy we produce, and by lowering the electric heating tax we will then be given the incentive to use electricity as heating our houses, and that is quite reasonable. We also think that it is actually a sensible balance in the energy agreement, namely by ensuring that we produce some renewable energy at windmills. The agreement is so much at sea wind farms in the future, but it is essential that we also use it. So it is good and sensible for us to have a two-legged agreement. So in these words, we in the Danish People's Party support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134641	Thank you. There were no comments here either. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134646	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we are also very pleased with the energy agreement that we landed here in the summer of 2018. The draft law, as the other rapporteurs said, translates precisely part of that energy agreement. It is proposed, as previous rapporteurs have also said, to reduce the electricity tax and the general electricity tax and to bring forward a reduction in the green cheque. As other rapporteurs have said, it helps to ensure that we have a more green and energy-efficient energy consumption, and it will be very good for the whole of Denmark and ensure that we will move in a more green direction. Specifically, with the business and entrepreneurship package, we are reducing the electric heating tax by 25 cents per annum. kWh up to and including 2021, and now we are further relaxing the electric heating tax with a permanent reduction in the energy agreement from 2021 onwards. This means that the electric heating tax will be reduced by 15,2 øre per year. kWh from 2021 onwards. From 2019 to 2022, the electricity tax shall be reduced by four cents per year. kWh, 7 øre per. kWh in 2023, 8 øre per. kWh in 2024 and 14 øre per. kWh in 2025. In other words, it is also a massive reduction. And then the reduction of the green check is brought forward so that it is fully phased in from 2019 rather than gradually towards 2025. The green transition is an important step towards a more cost- and energy-efficient Denmark, and that is the way we need to go in Denmark. So, of course, the left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134820	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134830	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is also included in the Energy Agreement, and we support the bill here. But we also think it is important to focus on what happens out there when you lower electricity taxes. After all, the energy agreement has been so built that we have to look at whether these reductions in electricity taxes are enough to make geothermal energy competitive with other sources of energy. If it doesn't, we should have looked at that relationship. I could miss the excess heat being handled in this, but it is so possible that it will come at a later stage. But I think we have an unresolved problem. I've got one of them. It is clear that there are not the same conditions for those data centres which are in process and are in the process of being set up in different places. We would have liked to know in committee how far these reduced taxes can ensure that we get more excess heat into the system, because it is not certain that it will just happen without further ado with these reductions. So we think that we should focus and follow-up on whether that is how the reality is moving.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134945	Thank you. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120134952	In the alternative, we're also in this part of the energy agreement. We are not involved in the lowering of the green cheque, but in this draft law we want to bring forward the lowering, and we have also said yes to that as part of the whole. Generally speaking, heat pumps have been such a word, I have heard a great deal in our group, because our rapporteur, Christian Poll, sometimes, when we sit at a group meeting, whispers it between our teeth, if there is any doubt that it actually makes quite good sense to promote the green transition. And then I will give a very personal example to those who are listening at home. It is not necessarily everything you can take in front of the green area. In our own party we have had many weeks in which we have discussed exciting matters about whether we are taking the lead or whether we are helping to start with ourselves with the green transition. I can tell you that I have both geothermal heat at home, and I have a wood stove at home that I use for a little cozy heating, and we also bought a heat pump. And I was proud of that when I called Christian Poll and told him. So in general we are in favour of this proposal and we see it as excellent that the Folketing once again agrees on something as important as the green transition through the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135103	Thank you. I'm a little in doubt because it says Mr. Joachim B. Olsen here, but it's Mr. B. Olsen. Villum Christensen, who had been hiding and who had therefore been skipped a little, but here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135115	Thank you. No problem. The proposal here relaxes the electricity tax and the electricity tax, and there is an advance in the reduction of the green cheque. This is done as part of the implementation of the energy agreement, as has already been mentioned several times. In the Liberal Alliance, it is good that the Danish tax system supports electrification of Danish society, especially when it goes hand in hand with tax incentives. The more you electrify, the better you can use the green solar energy and wind energy, which is produced very much in Denmark. We think that is the right way to go, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135158	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135215	In the Radical Left, we can also warmly support this bill. This means, in all its simplicity, that it will be easier for district heating plants, for consumers and for all sorts of others to stop burning various things to make heat. Instead, it will be so cheaper to use electricity for heat production. This is really important for the green transition and to do something about CO2 Power will, after all, in the coming years, be created from 100 per cent. renewable energy, i.e. that we can safely use electricity for heat production without damaging the climate, as opposed to burning anything. In this context, the electricity tax has been an obstacle because it has made it not profitable for district heating plants and consumers to switch to the use of electricity for heat production. That tax is now being relaxed with this law, and we are very happy about that. This has been a major issue on our part for a long time, and that is why we can warmly support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135328	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135345	Some taxes are good, some taxes are not so good, and some taxes are not very wise. SF is part of this agreement and we think it is a very good idea that the tax is now being relaxed so that we can keep to the promise we made each other in connection with the energy agreement that we will speed up the green transition. As the radical rapporteur said, there are still a lot of places where fossil fuels are used to heat up. Some of us may have a summer house, and some of us may still have houses where fossil fuels are heated up. It's like sir. René Gade also mentioned a much better idea to just use his wood stove for a bit of fun and not as the primary source of warming, because it affects our climate and it also contributes to air pollution. Economic incentives work where you can change people's behavior for the better. It's another discussion when they don't work. In this case, it is a really good idea to make it cheaper for people to use electricity, because we have also given each other the promise that our electricity should be completely green and stem from renewable energy, and therefore, of course, we must support that development and then together also speed up the conversion to remove fossil fuels completely. The SF is part of the agreement, and of course we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135539	Thank you. Sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135544	Thank you very much. The draft law here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have said, is, of course, the implementation of this summer's energy agreement. Behind the energy agreement is a collective parliament, and that is important because energy policy is long-term. Imagine that one government, nine parties and four prime minister candidates have been brought together for the same energy policy. I think we can be a little proud of that. That's amazing. The energy agreement is of great importance to our climate, in fact so important that the agreement we have made now covers 55%. of Denmark's energy consumption by renewable energy sources in 2030 • 55%. We have come a long way, and it is also an important priority for the Conservative People's Party that we continue an ambitious path in the field of the environment and climate. The bill here translates the part that facilitates the electricity and electricity tax. This also makes it more attractive for homeowners, for example. to invest more in environmentally sound and climate-friendly solutions for heating such as: heat pumps. At the same time, our energy agreement also makes our electricity generation greener and greener. In the Conservative People's Party, we are also working to support the electrification of our society because it is the right climate course. We have relieved the PRS tax, the electricity tax and the electric heating tax, and we are also ready to continue working on that track. In fact, the next step in this series was in the government's financial bill, which was to lighten the electricity tax on summer homes. With these measures and the proposal we are dealing with now, we make it cheaper to be a Dane, while making it more attractive to make the right choice in terms of climate. This is the right choice for our children and our grandchildren. That is why, of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135747	Thank you. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120135756	I would also like to thank you for your positive reception on this bill. It is not so much a surprise to me, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, because we are implementing the energy agreement, in which all parties in the Folketing are involved. It is a good agreement and, by the way, a good picture of Danish politics, because if you turn on the TV and watch TV 2 News or other debate programmes, you get the impression that we fight and fight about everything. I do not really think it is fair to say that we are arguing and fighting, but we are having a political discussion and discussing various things that we each look at differently, but very much we are working together on, particularly many of the important things. What is crucial for the green transition is that there is security and security for those who want to invest in the green transition in Denmark, and the foreign investors we need to attract from outside. And there is, of course, when you have such a broad agreement as the one that has been made, where all the parties of the Folketing are involved. We're gonna put it into practice here today by this bill. In concrete terms, the agreement means that we will have a reduction in both the ordinary electricity tax and the electric heating tax. As I also think some rapporteurs mentioned, what challenges us in Denmark in tax matters is that for historical reasons we have wanted a large welfare society and had a lot of spending to finance it • have put taxes and taxes on all things in the world. What we are running into here many years later is that the charges that have been introduced primarily as sources of funding for historical reasons are now preventing other political desires. Our high electricity charges, which before the energy agreement was concluded were the world's highest, are in fact a show stop for the green transition, because it is better to use the more polluting fossil fuels and heating sources instead of what is green and what becomes even greener, namely electricity. Therefore, if we are going to achieve the green conversion, the electrification of our society, and green renewable energy are not just something we have to throw a lot of tax dollars at and produce, but also have to be something we profit from socio-economically, then we have to make sure that we use it, and it is our electricity tax and our electric heating tax an obstacle to • or at least it was. We have taken a big and important step with this bill, and hopefully that will lead to more electricity being used and that it will pay better to use the green electricity, which will be produced much more in the years to come. At the same time, we are living up to what I, as tax minister, also think is important because it is in the government base and because it is my party's position, namely that we make it cheaper to be a Dane. Last but not least, I am glad that the Danish Parliament, which is not always so enthusiastic about tax relief, can see that it is fair to take off these electricity taxes. It also goes through so that those who receive the greatest reductions are the low-income groups, where the cost of electricity is most in the budget. So, in terms of distribution, there is certainly nothing to be desired in relation to the green tax reduction we are granting here in the energy sector. We will then also move forward the green cheque, and that is part of the funding agreed in the energy agreement. Yes, but with those words and the desire for a good committee procedure, I would like to thank you so far for the discussion here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120140148	Thank you. There are no comments. No one wanted to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120140201	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120140216	Thank you. This summer we managed to get an agreement to correct some of the problems in the gambling market in Denmark. I am very pleased about this and I also think it took too long for it to succeed, but we had a long run, which fortunately ended up with a good deal, I think, which should do something about the gambling market in Denmark • although it has been significantly better regulated than it was in the past, where our monopoly on it had been completely overwhelmed • has led to an increasing number of gambling addicts, not least among young men. That's why we got an agreement that includes an independent gambling anihotline, a cap on the bonus offers that are used to maintain and lure more people into playing also more than is good, a duty of attention for the gaming companies that operate, to keep an eye on unhealthy game patterns among their customers, improvements to this register, ROFUS, which one can sign up and thereby exclude oneself from gambling, and other good elements of the agreement that I cannot help doing just a little advertising for now, where I am allowed to speak here from the Folketing's speaking chair on this matter. We are also ready for further action, for example. to impose a higher tax on the typically foreign gambling companies operating in the liberalised market in Denmark. I also think there is one thing that we have forgotten and that we did not get into the discussion here, because it was a lot about gambling addiction, but which we may be able to achieve here in the committee procedure. I would certainly appeal to the tax minister that we will have a discussion on in this process, namely what is about limitation. These are the players, the customers who are simply so good that they are limited in how they can play. Such are the rules today: if you have won enough over the gaming company, they can almost exclude you completely from playing with them. I have got some examples into my inbox - there is also a media that has covered it - on some who, because they are really good at exactly some particular football leagues, or whatever it is, have had a good time and won some good money. This then leads to the game companies saying that they are not allowed to play with them anymore or only play too much, very small amounts. Finding an arrangement on how to limit that there is a certain amount of money that you have to offer at least all they have to play for at a gamble I think is worth a discussion that we can hopefully reach along the way in the committee's examination of this bill. What the gaming agreement actually brings about are two measures relating to the fee financing of the Ludomani line and to the money laundering supervision that the gambling authority is required to carry out. We think it is reasonable to pay a fee which reflects the costs of operating this independent public gambling line and the costs of carrying out a laundering of gaming companies by the gaming authority. It is therefore also part of the political agreement that the progression limits that are for how to pay the tax if you have a gambling hall or run a casino, unlike in the past, are beginning to be regulated. They haven't been for a long time. It wasn't that important to us. It was a great deal at the Government's request that it is included in the agreement, but we could agree to that and we can therefore also support both of these elements of the bill. I simply raise the flag that I do not think this is the last time we have to keep an eye on the gambling market in order to avoid gambling addiction with all the accidents it leads to in many people's lives and reduce it as much as we can, but it is also a question of fairness in relation to those who are so good at playing that they actually end up with winnings. There must also be a risk in running a gambling company and making bets with citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120140630	Thank you. The next one is sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120140642	The reason why we are standing here today is that we made an agreement in June on the regulation of the gambling market in Denmark, an agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF, actually an old conciliation group right back from when we made the partial liberalisation of the gambling market, where the main objective was to avoid an illegal gambling market, and by making liberalisation we got them into a regulated market, which has thus proved to be a great success, because we can now make demands on the providers, but at the same time also perhaps to a greater extent can get hold of those who cannot handle the game and who have problems with it, among other things. You're a gambler. This agreement will then take additional steps to help those people who have a challenge with it, among other things. as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, a gambling addiction hotline. There was already an earlier one, but it was Danske Spil, who himself had the very good and sympathetic approach they had taken, but in fact it is also quite reasonable that it should be spread out so that the other providers also take their share of the responsibility. It will then be the case that they will then have someone who is independent from the game providers and that they will all be involved in financing it. We think that is quite reasonable. It is also sensible with the slightly smaller measure of indexing the progression limits for land-based casinos and slot machines. It is the case that when they make some money, there are limits to when they suddenly get a pretty strong nick up in the tax. It is a limit that has not been regulated for very many years, 17 years for slot machines and 25 years for casinos, so it is only reasonable that we should also ensure that those limits follow with time. The agreement was really good and contained a lot of good measures, where only a few are here, because the rest will be implemented through announcements or through a code of conduct, which will then be discussed with the industry. But there are, in fact, a lot of good things where we also deal with how we might regulate advertising in a more appropriate way today, i.e. where they are among other things. They should also be required to inform that there is this hotline, that there is a ROFUS register, where you can exclude yourself and so on. So there are a lot of good moves. So, in order to anticipate the debate, I can mention it, as Mr. Jesper Petersen from the Social Democratic Party says about limitation that we are also willing to discuss it, because it is true that there should be risks on both sides. As a user of the game market, you know very well that you are likely to lose in the end, but if someone is so good and lucky that they are actually going to win on it, there must also be a risk to the industry that some people can actually make money on it here, and that is not fair if you even too small amounts, or you have played quite a few times, are excluded. So we actually think it is quite important to have a discussion on whether there can be some things that can be adjusted there. In these words, we in the Danish People's Party support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120140943	Thank you. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left, is the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120140948	Thank you for the floor. As the two previous rapporteurs have said, the government, including the Left, which is my party, together with the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party, reached an agreement on new measures to combat gambling addiction and to adjust the gambling agreement. This is because together we have agreed to partial liberalisation of the gambling market, which means that we do not have this big black gambling market in Denmark. But at the same time there are some problems with people who become addicted to gambling, and that is one of the things we are trying to deal with with the deal we have made here about the gambling market. As the other rapporteurs have also said, only parts of the agreement itself are actually transposed into law. But one of the things that has been incredibly important to me has been that we should try to do what we can to prevent children and young people and adults from developing gambling addiction. Those who are game-dependent, we need to help. The Center for Ludomani treats an average of 700 people a year against gambling addiction. In 2017, 28% was spent. by clients under 25 years of age. In 2009, the figure was 7%. I find this deeply unhappy, and therefore I am pleased that we have taken the initiative together on some measures which should help to stem this trend. The other rapporteurs have, in fact, referred to the three elements on which we are specifically required to legislate here: a fee financing of the gambling authority's cost of gambling addiction, including the protection of players from developing gambling addiction through, among other things, gambling addiction. information and prevention; maintenance and operation of a game addiction hotline for those seeking help in gambling addiction, which is currently in Danske Game, but which is to be located in the Game Authority in the future, for it provides a certainty that it is not with one of those offering gambling but with an authority; and an indexing of the progression limits for the charge of gambling. I think that is three good changes and, as I said, I think that the whole game deal is a very good deal and I hope it can help in terms of gambling addiction. Against this background, I must say that the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141204	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141210	As other rapporteurs have said, this is about the introduction of three things: a fee financing of the Game Authority's costs for action against gambling addiction, a fee financing of the Game Authority's costs for action against money laundering and then an indexing of these progression limits, which means that it will have to follow normal regulation in the future. The last thing we can live with when it is adopted together with the two elements relating to fee financing. So Enhedslisten is positive about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141247	Thank you. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141255	Thank you for that, President. This bill implements part of the gaming agreement between the government parties and the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Radical Left. In 2012, the gambling market in Denmark was liberalised. This means that an unregulated market was regulated, and I, as a Liberal, am very pleased about that. Liberalisation has not led to more gambling. In fact, the opposite is true. However, there are a few players who can't really control their game spirit and get into trouble. They mean a majority in the Folketing we should try to save from themselves. Therefore, an independent game addiction hotline is established so that you can get help to get rid of your gambling addiction. With this bill, the tax on gambling in casinos and on slot machines will in future also be regulated by price developments. It is a tax reduction and it means a lot to some of these companies, such as a company like Tivoli. We can, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141428	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141433	We also take a very positive view of the draft law. We were not in the agreement ourselves, but these elements look quite reasonable. In general, the purpose of the agreement is also very good, we think. As to whether or not we save someone from himself, as my former rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen said up here, I actually get it. In fact, I also find it difficult to go in and restrict people's freedom to do what they really want to do. However, I think that the weighting here, and the rapporteur also thinks so, in that they vote 'yes', is sensible. Because if we can get game providers to take greater account of the problems that can come from playing a lot and from the exposure to gambling, that is to say, gambling addiction, then it makes sense to place a greater share of responsibility on them. We can never take that away from the individual from the responsibility of gambling and perhaps becoming addicted to gambling. But there's been a development and I'm gonna make it short here, because it's another case in the gambling market, where it's not like old times, when you went with a tips coupon or an odd ticket once a week, but where kids down to the age of 3-4 are now exposed to game ads with cool men and women who do some sport that they look up to from the age of 3-4. While they're watching cartoons, they get ads on Youtube sometimes. Then you can say that you can just put on filters so that they are not exposed to it. Yes, yes, but that being said, it's just not the reality you meet out there, even in the street with outdoor commercials. So I think it's really good to get game providers to take this social responsibility, and I actually see them too far along the way being very willing to do so when we push a little with political power. So we are also very positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141616	Thank you. I do not think there is a radical rapporteur. Let's move on. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141629	I have also promised to greet the Radical Left and say that they support the bill. I'd better start with that so I don't forget. In the SF, we are in the agreement, and we are, of course, also included in this bill, which implements the things that just required legislation. In all the negotiations we have had on gambling legislation, and once we have negotiated the gambling law, it is very important that the SF has an effort to combat gambling addiction and gambling addiction. In fact, I agree in part with my colleagues from both the Alternative and the Liberal Alliance that there are limits to how much people can be protected from themselves. I just have to say that in this case we have an obligation as politicians because we have chosen an arrangement in Denmark where we make money, even quite a lot of money, at stake. When there is then an increase in the number of people who have gambling problems and gambling problems, despite the joyful news that fewer people actually play for money, we can see that among those who do so there is an increase in the number of people who have problems, and then we also have an obligation to do so. With this proposal, we are adjusting the fee rules in order to finance the costs of gaming authorities precisely in relation to gambling addiction and this hotline, which has also been mentioned, and we are also indexing the progression limits for the charge of gambling in casinos and slot machines. After all, we have chosen both to set aside some money, but also to transfer it to the providers to help finance this effort, because we can see that I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who mentioned that there are some who have problems, especially young people and even in some cases children. We can see that the new opportunities for gambling also present some challenges, and that is a dangerous development that we must be very vigilant about. I think this will be an area that we will continue to have to look at a great deal. Because it's not enough that we have ROFUS where you can put yourself in quarantine, so to speak. I don't think it's enough with a hotline either. There are so many games that also move into the computer screen where there may not be so many who notice if someone gets into trouble that we must keep an eye on developments constantly. That is also why, in the SF and also in other parties, we have been very concerned about how we can advertise and what mechanisms we can use when playing. All this is a little outside the scope of the bill here; it is just to say that the fight against gambling addiction is something that I think we should continue to keep an eye on in the circle of parties involved in this. But, of course, SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141947	Thank you. Sir. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120141953	Thank you. The legislative proposal here, as several of the previous rapporteurs have said, aims to implement some elements of the gaming agreement we made this summer. It is, of course, particularly with the focus on how we help some of those who are affected by gambling addiction that we were in and regulating when we made the new agreement. In 2012, the Danish gambling market was liberalised. This also meant that there were new providers of different games that were given the opportunity to legally offer games in Denmark. This also made up for a large unregulated gambling market and got it under orderly conditions and regulated conditions. Liberalisation also presupposes, of course, that there is a focus on consumer protection through information and help and regulation. That is why we, the Conservatives, are very pleased that we have reached that agreement, because we are strengthening our efforts in relation to consumer protection and providing better measures to combat gambling addiction and to help those who end up in gambling addiction. The specific legislative proposal here must include, among other things: ensure an initiative to help game-dependents, namely the creation and fee financing of a game-dependent hotline where game-dependent and relatives can seek help and guidance. In addition, the bill contains an indexation of the progression limit for the charge of gambling in land-based casinos and slot machines, which we can also support. These are limits that have not been regulated for many years, and we think it makes good sense to have them adjusted. Of course, we can support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120142136	Thank you. It's the tax minister's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120142139	Thank you. I should also like to thank you for receiving this bill on gambling, which, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, implements two elements of the gambling agreement that we concluded last June, that is. The government parties, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF. I am also glad that we have reached a very broad agreement here, and when there are no more parties, it is because we, like a conciliation group in this area, are operating on the basis of it. There are two tax settlements in some areas of government, but in the tax area we only have two, in my best memory I must hurry to say it's the settlement, and then this is the game area. The rest are voting agreements where there is a different law of conciliation and agreement. I welcome the fact that it is the circle of parties that has helped to further liberalise the gambling market, namely in January this year, when several gambling providers were allowed to legally offer online bingo and betting on horses and dogs. Liberalisation ensures fair conditions of competition between the various providers, but liberalisation, and I must be honest with you, is not without consequences. Liberalisation requires the gambling market to offer responsible games and focus on protecting the players, and I think that is also a cadeau for the previous government and for the politicians who have been active in the previous gaming board that we have actually been quite good at in that Denmark. And the good we've created, a healthy balance, or as healthy as possible, when it comes to gambling, we must safeguard. If we look at VIVE's gambling study from a few years ago, in 2016, it turns out that although the range of games has increased and the opportunities to play are more, in 2016 there were actually fewer players than 10 years ago. On the other hand, the study shows that the number of people with real gambling dependence has increased slightly over the period, and that is why it is very good that we concluded the gambling agreement last June with the initiatives described here in the draft law, with the aim of reducing gambling dependence as effectively as possible. The bill then contains two of the initiatives. One initiative is an independent game dependency hotline for players who get help for their gambling addiction. Players will be able to call in anonymously and talk about their gambling problems, seek advice and guidance and get information about gambling addiction, and they will also be able to get information about treatment institutions and the possibility of self-exclusion from gambling in the Game Authority's register, ROFUS. ROFUS stands for the Register of Volunteered Out-of-Players. You choose voluntarily to exclude yourself, you choose voluntarily to protect yourself. The second initiative, which has little to do with gambling addiction, is that with the agreement we also give less relief to industries which, as we know, contribute both to the financing of voluntary association life and to the treasury. We regulate the progression limit for gambling in land-based casinos on slot machines in both gaming halls and restaurants. They have not followed price developments and this means that borders are gradually being eroded. And that is why we are proposing that the progression limit be indexed so that they follow price developments in the future. With this initiative, the industry can look forward to an annual immediate relief of 1 million. kr. in 2019 increasing to 5 million. kr. in 2025. It may not sound like much, and it is not, of course, because in Denmark, unlike other countries, we have casinos all over the place. A casino gets you by applying for a license from the gambling authority, and we have a few casinos in Denmark. One of them is located here in Copenhagen, but there are also other places in the country, among others. A little outside of Vejle. And there are casinos and casino operations to ensure that you can run a hotel profitablely. It helps lure some to the hotel and is part of the operation there. If you are going to invest and develop such a casino, you are looking at the framework conditions, and if you can see that the tax also quietly increases quite significantly, then you are not willing to make investments so that the casinos can last. So, on the one hand, I don't want casinos to show up on every corner of the street in Denmark. On the other hand, I think that as a tax minister, and I am pleased that there is support for this in the conciliation circle, where a number of parties have also raised this issue, that we need to find a solution where some of these casinos can invest in their future and the business behind it, without throwing millions at them. In conclusion, the draft law only translates two elements of the gaming agreement. The agreement also contains a number of other initiatives aimed at reducing gambling dependency to a greater extent, including limiting the bonus offers offered by gambling providers, etc., and these initiatives are implemented through amendments to various regulations in the field of gambling and by a code of conduct for the industry drawn up in cooperation with the industry. And there we have agreed that if the industry is not understanding and follows the political signals that the parties behind the agreement want to send out and they are easy to understand, if you read the agreement then I should like to say that I am willing to take it differently from a code of conduct. Then we simply have to legislate. However, in view of the gambling market we have and the understanding that the players also have, both Danske Games as a very large state-owned player, but also some of the other gaming operators, I think that they should have the chance to agree. I think that is the best way to find effective solutions. But if we do not succeed, we will have to resort to the legislative instrument. With these comments, I would like to thank you for the discussion that has taken place in the Chamber and look forward to the further legal and committee reading of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120142751	Thank you. Nor is there any further comment here on the proposal, nor on the tax minister. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120142805	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120142817	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to strengthen entrepreneurship in Denmark. Small and medium-sized enterprises which are unlisted and are in a start-up or growth phase must have easier access to risk capital. They may find this difficult, and therefore it is proposed to make an investor allowance for natural persons who invest in small and medium-sized unlisted enterprises under different special conditions. A deduction is proposed both if you make a direct investment and if you do so as part of an investor tax deduction fund, but with the same purpose and type of investment in mind. Social democracy supports the intention to get more Danes to invest directly in companies, just as we would like to improve the framework for start-ups. That is why, in fact, we have also proposed ourselves that a model be drawn up for more favourable tax conditions for investors investing money in entrepreneurship. We have done so in the project we have made earlier, that is to say, wake up that works, from spring 2017. We have pointed out that it would be useful to be inspired by the models that exist in some of our neighbouring countries. So we really think it's a good thing that the government and the parties to the agreement behind this agreement have come up with an investor allowance. Some of the concerns that may be related to how such deductions might be misused have also been taken into account. So far, so good. What we are more sceptical about is the amount that the deduction ends up getting. At first it has to be 400,000 DKK, and then, from 2023, it is set up to 800,000 DKK when it comes to direct investment, and from 125,000 DKK. to DKK 250,000 when it comes to indirect investment via an investor tax deduction fund. We would be able to support the proposal if it were kept to the DKK 400 000, or DKr 125 000 respectively, for direct and indirect investment. However, with the model proposed now, expenditure for the public sector will end up at 0.25 billion. kr., money that could have been spent on welfare instead. That is how we would rather give priority to what goes from the DKK 400 000. and up to the 800,000 kroner. It ends up being a targeted tax relief for those who already have the most, and one of the ways in which, during this parliamentary term, it has been bypassed, that we have not been able to reduce the top tax, what we would like from the government, but then found some other ways. We have recently been informed in a reply to the Parliamentary Finance Committee that this proposal alone will provide a tax relief of DKK 90,000. to the most prosperous in Denmark. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the model as it stands here. We will try to succeed in saying in committee that we must keep it to the DKK 400 000, respectively DKr 125 000. This could have our support, but we are not in favour of setting it up to the high amounts subsequently in 2023, with the costs and the costs, we think, too distorting the effect it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143142	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143149	I assume that the Social Democratic Party basically believes it is good that citizens invest in companies. In other words, it is really a social activity; it involves new employment, good jobs, good wages and so on. So what will the Social Democracy really do to make it more attractive for people to invest instead of just having their money standing passively in the bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143220	One of the methods is the share savings account that we have previously talked about and dealt with here in the Folketing, where we think that we are doing it too much and taking it forward from something that is about ordinary people's savings money, to be quite a significant relief for those who have a lot of money to take advantage of the very high deduction, the high advantage one would end up giving in that context. And here, too, I have just explained in my rapporteur's speech that we actually support making an investor allowance, but are opposed to doing so. Because then we are out of the question of getting someone who doesn't already make this kind of investment or get a little more money going, so that it will be a disproportionate tax relief for some people who might also be able to make this kind of investment without the deduction being as large as it will end up being if you follow the bill to the end. If sir... Joachim B. Olsen would like a large majority behind the draft law, we need to find another way of doing it in committee. Then we'll back up too.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143330	Is there a follow-up question? We're gonna have to press it. Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143336	Depending on who's in the chair This is the right way). It's okay. Sir. Jesper Petersen then chooses to point to another proposal that has come from this government, namely a stock savings account as a way to get people to invest more. It's only in listed companies. After all, this is about unlisted companies, entrepreneurship companies, and here you have to understand that the deduction is too big. But again: this is a government proposal which, as I can count myself to, is, in fact, a solid majority behind in the Folketing. But what does the Social Democratic Party have of its own proposals? It is okay to support some of the government's proposals in this area, but what will the Social Democratic Party do to increase investment in companies in Denmark? What does the Social Democratic Party have of its own proposals that can help some of these entrepreneurial companies along the way? It has been many years since there has been a new large company in Denmark. We see that many Danish companies move abroad and grow large there. What will social democracy do?
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143450	Okay, well, just wait a minute, okay? Well, I think, sir. Joachim B. Olsen must acknowledge that we could actually agree both to make something about quoted shares, it was the share savings account, and then what I followed up with saying, as is the case here, about unlisted shares, i.e. to make an investor allowance, which we actually proposed before it became an agreement, the government entered into with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. We disagree on how big it should be, but the fact that it should be part of the law in Denmark, we would be able to agree on • but not as large and as extensive as it is here. Then I would say that I agree that it is good to get more investment; more capital is needed for this kind of business. However, there are some who have more sense in doing so than others, so before you go out and tell ordinary employees that they just have to invest in all sorts of things, you also have to say that they have to take good care of their own money and not take unnecessary risks.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143541	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. And I give the floor to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143551	Here we are dealing with the implementation of the agreement on business and growth initiatives, on which we have also had some previous proposals today. It is an agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. In this part of the implementation of the agreement, we focus on raising capital for companies. This is something I think several of us often hear about when we are either visiting companies locally or getting visits from them in here, i.e. what is typically missing is capital to grow or to become skilled labour. At least that is what I personally encounter when I meet both local and national companies. After all, the agreement focused on this through several different initiatives. Among other things: We tried to see if we could free up some pension funds, which can typically stand rather passively, i.e. if we could make it easier for people to use them to invest in shares. The savings account has already been part of the debate, and the action in this bill is called an investor tax deduction. After all, all these measures are aimed at the fact that companies are different places in their life cycle, and the investor allowance is probably most of all targeted companies during the start-up phase, among other things. because it is unlisted shares, but also because it is there, it may be hardest to get the capital to run its business. The deduction is granted to natural persons and not really to companies. Typically, you could imagine that if you had a lot of money, you'd have a holding company. Here it is so natural persons. And that is why I would actually think that most of all it will be used by family members, good friends or people in close association who will invest in a good idea that is now known to a friend or family member. The good thing about this is that as a company you save some funding costs, because then you may have to go out and borrow from the bank to a lesser extent, and that is quite a positive thing. The specific model is, as has already been mentioned, that you can invest in unlisted shares and get this deduction. Half of the investment of up to 400,000 kroner can be deducted. in the period 2019-2022, while in the period from 2023 onwards it is for half of 800,000 DKK. And the deduction, which is granted as an equational deduction, gets a tax value of approx. 30% in an average municipality. What I was wondering about was when I read the bill I also asked about it when we made the deal: Why do you get a deduction for half of the investment and then 30 percent.? Why don't you just get 15%? of the entire investment instead? Well, it would give the same. Why not get 15%. of the whole part instead of getting 30%. Of half? But then I understand that maybe it is because it is an equational deduction, which is 30 per cent, so that it should be easier to manage. But couldn't you just say it was 30%? of the entire investment, so you set the rate down to half, i.e. instead of getting 30%. of half of 400,000 kroner. That's 30 percent. of the 200,000 kroner.? Or if you later get 30%. of half of 800,000 kroner, why not get 30%? of 400,000 kroner.? I mean, why does half of it have to go with you? It is, of course, a legislative proposal that is quite complicated in advance, and I think that is sensible enough. I mean, it doesn't make sense for it to be complicated, but there's a need for safeguards to keep this from being cheated on. But there is no reason why we should make it more complicated than what is actually needed. So why should you only get half of the investment deducted and not get a deduction for the entire investment and then perhaps lower the rate? But maybe we can try to see if we can get the work done in committee, i.e. whether it might be a small change. After all, it is not to say that we do not support it, because we do. We think it is a good move with an investor allowance, because it can help to raise capital for start-up companies. But it is perhaps just a small change that we could consider, so as not to make it more complicated than is actually needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143934	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I will pass on the floor to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120143942	Thank you very much, President. As previous rapporteurs have also said from the platform, the bill we are discussing today is part of the implementation of the agreement on business and entrepreneurship initiatives from 2017, and one of the objectives of this agreement was to strengthen the entrepreneurial and stock culture. It may sometimes sound like something that is a little distant for many people, that is why we need to strengthen the entrepreneurial and stock culture. Because we in Denmark do not actually have a particularly good entrepreneurial and stock culture, and quite a few of the smaller entrepreneurial companies that start choose to make a stock exchange note, for example. Sweden or elsewhere because it is simply not possible to find capital in Denmark. And it is a structural problem in Denmark if we want growth, and we want it. So we're trying to get rid of that here. With the investor allowance, we have chosen a model in which small and medium-sized enterprises which are in a start-up or growth phase can gain easier access to risk capital by reducing the taxation of investors. The idea is that people who are subject to tax in Denmark should have the opportunity to deduct their income annually, and this has been mentioned by several rapporteurs for up to half of the investments for up to DKK 400 000. in each of the years 2019-2022 and half of the investments for up to DKK 800,000. in the years 2023 onwards. The right of deduction will cover both direct investments in the acquisition of shares in target companies and indirect investments in the purchase of shares in investment deductions funds investing in target companies. In both cases, the deduction must be granted with an equational deduction, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned, with a tax value of 30%. in an average municipality. Basically, I think it makes sense for us to ensure a balance that can ensure the availability of capital for start-up and growth companies, while at the same time, with the investor allowance, we will provide a broad group of potential investors with incentives to make investments based on a tax advantage. So a good balance has been struck and we hope it will provide a better stock and entrepreneurship culture in Denmark. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120144149	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120144156	After all, this bill is another wealthy gift from the business and entrepreneurial package, as it is called, and this is about the investor allowance. In contrast to the share savings account that we have debated in this Chamber in the past, the investor allowance is targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises, which are unlisted companies, i.e. companies that are not on the stock exchange. It is an attempt to provide more risk capital for some small businesses, and that is, in fact, a legitimate wish to do so. The problem is the way it is done. The investor allowance will allow persons who make direct investments in the companies covered by the Act to deduct half of the investment per year for up to DKK 400 000. in each of the years 2019-2022 and half of the investments for up to DKK 800,000. in the income year 2023 onwards. This can be done through indirect investment through investor deductions funds, and half of the investments will cost up to DKK 125,000. could be deducted in each of the income years 2019-2022, while in the income year 2023 and onwards, half of investments would be deducted for up to DKK 250,000. The reason I'm reading the figures is to say that when we're in this 100,000 dollar class, it's almost unnecessary to say that it's people who have quite large incomes and therefore large sums of money at their disposal who can take advantage of this opportunity. That way it's another rich man's present. Secondly, it is also important to note that there I think some of the parties that are actually going to vote in favour of this bill might have to point out that the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises is a little interesting because they follow the EU definition. It says: "It is therefore proposed that, at the time of the investment, the target company should be included in the category of small or medium-sized enterprises, i.e.: that the company must employ less than 250 persons and that it must have an annual turnover of not more than 50 million. EUR 370 million (equivalent to just over EUR 370 million). DKK) or a total annual balance sheet of no more than 43 million. EUR 320 million (equivalent to just over EUR 320 million). DKK). It is quite a high limit, and I think in my quiet mind that if you have employed 150 people and have a turnover of 200 million. kr., what on earth does it bat, that can be invested e.g.. $200,000. in the company? It seems like a rather strange tool, and once again you get the suspicion that it is more the tax relief that lies in this than it is the effect on companies that you are looking for. AE, the Workers' Trade Council, also has an important point in dealing with this bill, and it is whether you do not create a tax gap that requires increased control efforts in the Danish Tax Authority. AE writes: "Besides large parts of the tax reliefs are reserved for an exclusive group of people with very high incomes, among other things. the new investor allowance opened up a number of speculative options to reduce the tax. The investor allowance alone can thus make a profit as much as DKK 157,500 if it is fully utilised. You also write that a new gap in tax legislation is being opened, which some will certainly try to make maximum use of. It is still unclear how SKAT will avoid speculation in these new rules. In addition, I would like to say that I think it is possible to question what the government really thinks this is going to cost. Provenutabet has been set at 200 million. kr., but in the government's original business and entrepreneurial initiative, the investor allowance could give a maximum gain of DKK 60,000. against the 157,500 kroner that I just read out. But with the deal, it's almost 100,000 kroner. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr., i.e. even though this bill is an extension of the agreement originally put forward. This underlines the uncertainty about the calculation of revenue here, and I have already sent some questions about it here before the first reading. I also think that there are some things that we need to drill into, because this is likely to be much more expensive than expected. It itself says that there is a great deal of economic uncertainty about it. However, I also think that the tax minister can comment on the fact that, as far as I can see, there is very great uncertainty as to what kind of companies this includes and that the scheme has been extended. It seems strange that it should only give a small amount of revenue in the Treasury, i.e. a loss of 200 million. kr. We need some evaluation of this after 1, 2 or 3 years. I think it seems very uncertain what revenue is to be generated. So, as far as I can see, the proposal envisages abuse. Can e.g. two persons who know each other and who each have a company, invest in each other's business and both withdraw the deduction? Well, that's how you can read the bill as it is here. Is there not also an enormous deadweight, that is to say investments which had been made anyway, now become deductible, and this is certainly true of investments in the so-called investor-deductibility funds? So it seems that there may be some serious problems with this draft law, which is why I have already asked a number of questions in committee, and I think we need to look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120144801	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120144808	Thank you. With this bill, we are introducing a new investor allowance for people who invest in small and medium-sized unlisted companies. Investments may be made directly or indirectly through investment deductions funds. Up to 2023, half of a direct investment of up to DKK 400,000 will be made. can be deducted; from 2023 the amount will be doubled to 800,000 kroner. In the case of indirect investment, half of investments up to DKK 125,000 will be made. could be deducted. This amount will also be doubled from 2023 onwards. Since 2013, 43 so-called unicorns have been created in Europe. These are new companies with a value of over 1 billion. Dollars. Five of these were created by Danes. That is more than was created in Germany. So we actually have a lot of very talented entrepreneurs in Denmark, at least with origins in Denmark, who are able to succeed, and we should welcome that. Unfortunately, all five of these now large companies have chosen to move their headquarters to the United States. Imagine if they had chosen to keep their headquarters in Denmark. When I say this, it is because we need to have a discussion about the very high capital taxes we have in Denmark. We have the highest taxes on capital in the OECD. No one is served by the fact that the high capital taxes are helping to scare companies away from our country. This bill is a really nice and good bill. It's about helping businesses get started. We support that. But we also need to have a discussion on how to keep them when they are big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145032	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145036	After all, the bill here is about state aid, and that is not something that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen usually thinks it's a good idea, but the Liberal Alliance does that in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145052	It is absolutely true, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says, that state aid is not something that we welcome. Now this is so aid in the form of some getting more favourable investment conditions. We can live with that. But we would have preferred to have seen a general reduction in the share tax in Denmark, which is very, very high on the margin, 42 per cent, and, incidentally, a simplification of the entire capital tax, which is extremely complex. In fact, I do not believe that there is a single tax rapporteur who will be able to give a full account of the legislation we have in this area. This is extremely complicated legislation, and tax rates are also very high. That is why we have to work to make the conditions for investment attractive, and this is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145217	I am well aware of the position of the Liberal Alliance, but precisely because this bill is both technical and legal State aid and that it has been necessary to address the European Union in relation to state aid rules, I was therefore only interested in hearing why it was possible to bow down to its principles here. But it is in order to work, because it is better to get deductions than to stick to the fact that you will not support anything that is state aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145252	Like so many times in politics, there are different considerations that can come into conflict with each other. And since it is not our feeling that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that wants to reduce capital taxation in Denmark, including share taxation, and also make the tax system for capital taxation less complex, we are left with the choice that to make it more attractive to invest, one has to twist oneself, and then one has to use such measures here. In the best of all worlds, we had reduced capital taxation in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145335	Thank you to LA's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145343	This is simply a fantastic bill to be allowed to debate. We are probably going to say no to this in the end, but the negotiations in this area that we just managed to get into before we had to say that we could not be there, because the package was largely creating inequality to an extent that we could not be involved in, led us in the alternative to look at how far we can go and where the limit goes to be an entrepreneurial party, a party that insists that contractors should have good conditions. What if, in fact, it is good for society to provide good opportunities for entrepreneurial companies, even if, just as we have proposed, we do not have to ensure that those who then have these lucrative conditions have a sustainable or social profile. In fact, in one of our proposals we have gone so far that we have said that it must be as much as one million, you get the deduction if they just have a social or a sustainable profile • something that needs to be determined by some sensible people who have assessed it on a factual basis. So it is not the amount we are afraid of, but what direction we are going in. If we make such a state aid as this is, we will also ensure that it promotes the best in society and the agendas that we think are essential beyond just economic gain. And there is the social and sustainable essentials for us. We said no, we said no, and we will also say no here because, as my fellow rapporteur from the Enhedslist said, it has something to do with the definition of entrepreneurship, and in this case, small and medium-sized enterprises are up to a very large number of employees and quite large turnovers, and we cannot do that. We put ourselves in the resolution that we came back with in 2016, on the basis of our entrepreneurial package at a level where we looked at the Swedish model, and we also looked a little to England, and there we are in the vicinity of perhaps 25 employees, 50 employees, and perhaps companies that have four years on the back. I am not saying that is right, because it may be that it is much better to do what we do here in society, but we are setting the limit for a proposal like this, because it is just relatively large companies that we go in and support, so that we no longer think we can vouch for this state aid unless we had made a green or social provision that was what was required for these companies to be supported. Finally, I would like to make every effort to ensure that we are able to approach the committee procedure. I do not think we are getting much right in the agreement that has been reached, but we really want to get to grips with whether or not we can say yes to elements. However, I do not believe that this will be the case precisely because the companies are so large. In the alternative, we tried precisely to go in with the motion for a resolution we made in 2016 to adopt the previous government's proposal, where we simply agreed to 650,000 as the amount of the deduction, that is to say the amount that should be, without providing a social profile, without providing a green profile, because we would actually well accommodate the understanding that entrepreneurship itself is beneficial to society, even if we do not get a green agenda or a social agenda. There were also challenges at the time, although there was a lot of attention and willingness in the Chamber to look at this proposal, but there was no possibility of setting these precise limits on how big companies should be, who they really are, we go in and support, how long they must have on the back and how much turnover they have. The prospect on the part of the government and the parties to the agreement is that one would like to go up and support quite large companies and thus also allow people who in our view may have everything they need to get a tax credit, where we would rather give it to some others in society, unless the investments thus had a clear social or green profile. In short, this is a very, very exciting debate. We are going to say no to the proposal, but what a pity it is, because we would like to go very, very far if we could just set a social or a green agenda when we gave the investor allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145736	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see the radical rapporteur in the Chamber. That is why we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, also called the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120145756	In the SF we would like to support an entrepreneurial culture, but as several of my colleagues mentioned here, it is therefore to stretch the equally legal length to call companies with 250 employees or a turnover of 370 million. kr. for a small startup or fresh entrepreneurs. I mean, come on, it's not gonna work! It is the general definition of SMEs, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, in relation to the EU's definitions, but to go from there to say that this will strengthen entrepreneurship, I simply think it is going too far. So I simply think that we should try together to agree on what we mean by entrepreneurship, because it has become a buzzword, it has become something that is smart and nobody can really be against it. I also think that virtually all parties in the Folketing could say: we want more young people or more who have good ideas to get over the ramp of new products, services, especially what is also good for what to say, the wider community. Absolutely. Before I was elected to the Danish Parliament, I worked at the entrepreneurship culture of Aalborg University, where we actually tried to tell the students: you don't have to get out and become employees, that's fine, but you can do some other things too. It can be hard to get over the ramp, there's a lot of law, there's capital that might be missing, etc. For in particular, a university is the breeding ground for a lot of fantastic both inventions, patents, new ideas etc. So I've been working on it myself. We don't mind. On the contrary. But it has to be fair and reasonable, and to spend this money on a $400,000 deduction. or half of up to 800,000 kroner. in a company which may have a turnover of 370 million. kr. or 250 employees. I just don't think it's gonna work out. I think it is just as frivolous to call it an entrepreneurial initiative. I feel the same way as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We can't see if this is going to pierce the bottom. I do not think the Minister really wants to put his head on the block for that either. As Mr. Rune Lund so well explained, is the lack of revenue of 200 million. kr., both when you take the small model and when you take the big model. It may be an equally creative piece of desk work. Sir. Rune Lund is an economist himself, so I think he'll agree with me. We can totally disagree on what is right and reasonable in relation to deductions, in relation to tax cuts, etc. I think that's quite fair. I have no problem with that, for example. Mr. Joachim B. Olsen wants tax cuts and deductions, and what do I know in all sorts of areas, but let us not try to deceive the public too by calling it something that everyone likes: entrepreneurship, when it can be anything else too, and when it is something that clearly has not been properly calculated. There's no brake in it. This could cost a lot of money. For that money, if you want to keep it in the area, you could have supported real entrepreneurs, that is, those who start something from scratch, they don't have a turnover of 370 million. kr. or 250 employees, but they have really started something from scratch that will create a lot of jobs, and they may be entirely innovative and so on. In fact, I believe that all the parties could support that. But this proposal is a smokescreen. I don't think it's right. Then you have to call it what you want with it, namely that it is a deduction and thus a tax relief for people who want to invest in companies that are actually quite large in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120150243	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120150256	Thank you. The bill is yet another implementation of the business and entrepreneurial package we made in 2017, which contains such a whole catalogue of very good initiatives, and the investor allowance here is certainly no exception. In the Conservative People's Party, we want it to be more attractive to invest in Danish companies. In the past, we have proposed a significant reduction in capital taxation, and we still want that to happen. There hasn't really been an appetite for that here in the Folketing, but that doesn't mean of course that we're just sitting on our hands. For Danish companies need capital, and the Danes actually have a trillion kroner standing on the account for about 0 per cent. in interest rates, and that is money that we want to get more to work for Danish business and Danish companies so that they can strengthen their equity capital and get more resources to invest and to increase productivity and to create growth in our business community. With the investor allowance and the bill we are discussing here, we are making it more attractive to invest in small and medium-sized unlisted companies, either directly in the company or through a new, special type of alternative investment funds, which is also introduced by this bill. The Conservative People's Party is very positive about the bill because we strengthen Danish entrepreneurs and SMEs' opportunities to raise capital for growth. Of course, we will also continue to work to reduce capital taxation more generally, because it makes companies and thus Denmark richer, but we support all good steps that are moving in the right direction, and that makes the investor allowance. The proposal for investor deductions for investment in unlisted companies is a really, very good step in the right direction, so we naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120150459	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then we have the radical rapporteur on the table. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120150508	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we also support this bill. It is part of an agreement we have made with the government and the Danish People's Party, and we are happy about it. We believe that there is a challenge in Denmark with few investments specifically for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. There are a lot of people who find that banks are not willing to borrow a small or larger amount of money for a company to get started and for a company to grow. A lot of people experience that you have to be able to provide a guarantee, that is to say have a warehouse or some buildings you can place a mortgage on, and a lot of people don't have such a thing because they have just started up or are starting up a business where you can't put a mortgage on. Therefore, an opportunity for a great many new companies could be that some people who have money went in and helped to invest in those companies. Unfortunately, not many people keep the money, keep it on the account, or put it in pension savings. The point of this proposal and also of some of the other proposals included in this agreement is to make it more favourable for the Danes to spend some of their savings to invest in companies so that hopefully they can grow and create new jobs to replace some of the ones we lose due to competition with Asia or Eastern Europe, for example. We believe that this proposal can help to shift some of the large amounts of money that the Danes have into investments for the benefit of the community, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120150651	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120150701	Thank you. I should like to express my regret at the fact that the agreement that has been reached on the last three legislative proposals has not been achieved in this respect. Because it is actually a proposal that should gather broad support in the Folketing. I would just like to return to some of the criticisms raised by, among others, Mr President. Enhedslisten and Socialist People's Party. But before that, of course, I would like to start by signing for the majority that has positively accepted the draft law introducing an investor allowance. It is not so surprising that there is a majority in favour of the proposal, because it translates the part of the agreement that the government concluded with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left a year ago, namely in November 2017, with a number of business and entrepreneurship initiatives. As several rapporteurs have said, the aim is to strengthen investment in small and medium-sized enterprises. It is not often that we deal with proposals for completely new tax laws. In fact, it is rare that we do it twice within a month. On 24 October, we first discussed a proposal for what will be a new word in the Nudan Dictionary next year, namely a share savings account. There we dealt with the proposal for a share savings account law, and today it is about proposals for new investor deductions under an investor tax deduction law. Both proposals must, overall, strengthen all of us. At least it is the intention that Danes should invest in shares, so that more Danes have a private economic interest in how our companies are doing and, incidentally, share in the quite massive wealth that is being created in our private sector society, so that it is not only professional investors who can make money on the stock market, but also Mr. And Mrs. Denmark, if you will. The proposal for a share savings account law aims at a general strengthening of the stock culture and investment in listed companies. This is typical of the largest of our companies, while this proposal for an investor allowance should make it more attractive to invest in unlisted shares in small and medium-sized start-up and growth companies. The aim of the proposal, as several have also mentioned, is to strengthen entrepreneurship in Denmark and to give a capital injection to unlisted companies which are in a start-up or growth phase. And a company may well have existed for many years, and then they say: Now we have to put turbo on, we have to invest in new machines, buy an expensive robot. We can go down to the bank and they can lend us some of the money, but they'll make it a very high interest rate. Does anyone want to invest in our company? Does anyone believe in our company more than the bank does? There are currently very limited possibilities for obtaining a capital injection other than what can be borrowed from the bank and if you can, it is at high interest rates. Now we are allowing for easier access to risk capital. We know that a great many Danes have saved up quite a lot of money, and it is a pity that that money often stands at 0 per cent. in interest rates or no interest rates, when they could be out and create growth and prosperity in our business with a sensible return to the Dane who invests. The reason is that these companies today have difficulty or difficulty in obtaining risk capital, because they typically do not have access, as large companies, to international investors and capital at world market prices. Businesses will therefore, to the extent possible, be obliged to seek bank financing, and it is often expensive, and the risk that the bank will run is probably limited. To remedy this, it is proposed to introduce an investor allowance for natural persons investing in small and medium-sized unlisted enterprises that are in a start-up or growth phase. The investor allowance will reduce the tax burden on the funds invested and will make it more attractive to invest in companies and thus make it easier for them to attract capital on an equal footing. The proposed investor deductions include investments against which natural persons acquire holdings in small and medium-sized unlisted companies that are in a start-up or growth phase. The contribution of capital may be made by direct investment or by indirect investment. Indirect investment must be made through the new investor deductions funds, which are proposed at the same time. The investor allowance allows people who invest directly in the companies covered to deduct half of the investments up to DKK 400 000. in each of the years 2019-2022. From the income year 2023 onwards it doubles the amount, so half of the investments up to 800,000 DKK. will be deductible. In the case of indirect investment through an investment deduction fund, half of the investments will amount to up to DKK 125,000. be deductible in each of the years 2019-2022. For indirect investment, the amounts will double from the income year 2023, so half of the investments will be deducted up to DKK 250,000. Well, that sounds a little complicated, and that's for God's sake, excuse me. However, this is due to the resources we have had available and to the compromise reached in the negotiations. That is sometimes the case in politics. In the same income year, a person will be able to obtain both direct and indirect investment allowances, and the deduction will have a tax value of 30%. in an average municipality. That is to say, young people like this 30%. from the investment you get a helping hand from the community to pay. 30% This is why the risk is being remedied, precisely in order to encourage investment in these companies. It is my hope as tax minister, and it is also my expectation that the investor allowance will help to ensure that we have a stronger entrepreneurial culture in Denmark, and that start-up and growth companies will be able to attract the capital needed to realise their growth potential for the benefit of Denmark as a whole. Then, of course, I take note of the criticisms made by Enhedslisten and SF. I would like to reply to all the questions that the committee may have in a thorough committee. But this isn't something we invented in Denmark. This is something that has existed for a period in our neighbouring country on the other side of Øresund, in Sweden. I would describe it as a sensible tool to increase the ability to attract capital to these small and medium-sized enterprises. What we do in Denmark is not nearly as ambitious as what you have in Sweden. It's only about half as ambitious. That is why I think it is a sensible proposal, and I would like to say in reply to Mr Seligman. Rune Lund has a number of safeguards which limit the possibility of such an agreement being made on investments and making tax planning and other things. I must also hurry to say that there is always the risk, when a Qualifying Scheme is made, that someone will abuse it. However, I think that we have found a sensible balance with the rules of protection. I know that is something we have discussed a great deal in the negotiations. I recall having had discussions with both the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left to ensure that we have some sensible safeguards. That is why I believe that a sensible balance has been struck. But I have no problem with that being challenged in a future committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151429	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151433	First on the political content: here we are dealing with a deduction of up to DKK 400 000. In the case of investments, and as I read the proposal, you only have to hold on to the shares for three years, then you can sell them, and then you can really invest again with a new deduction. It's a rich man's gift that wants something. Some calculations are then presented where it is so that in the government's original proposal the investor allowance could give a maximum tax benefit of DKK 60,000, and with the agreement it has become almost DKK 100,000. bigger. And yet, even in the original proposal, the loss of revenue was expected to be 200 million. kr., and that means that even if the potential gain has increased by DKK 100,000, the expected loss of revenue, i.e. the money lost, is unchanged by the Ministry of Finance. There is simply something that is not connected here. Aren't we gonna get an evaluation of this? So, at least, will the Minister put in an evaluation after 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, like all years, to see how this is developing? And what will the Minister do if it turns out that you go through the 200 million ceiling? kr., when we can see how this deduction ends up being used? You want the box slammed in? It's only supposed to be the 200 million. kr. is being spent on this, or can you go above that ceiling, if you may say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151559	When you make a profit estimate it is, that is, it sounds wrong to say the best man's bid, but there are some skilled economists in the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance and the other economic ministries, and they calculate what the loss of revenue is. They do so according to recognised calculation methods, and you can ask for them, and that is Mr. Rune Lund welcomes you. It is not the case that I, as the tax minister, have sat and manipulated the way we are supposed to. And that is the result it gives. And I'm sure there's a reasonable explanation... I'm afraid I can't give it here today on that question, sir. Rune Lund puts forward the various ways of calculating the loss of revenue. But let us delve into it in committee. Then there is the question of an evaluation. I think you have to be careful about evaluating something after 1 year. It's having a hard time getting through. But if a majority so wishes, you can put in an evaluation clause, and otherwise the Danish Parliament has the option that it is not used so often that you can monitor the proposal. There the Committee on Taxation has the opportunity to say: we have some things here that have been agreed a few years ago and we would like to ask the Minister how it is managed in practice. And that could be a tool to be used in connection with this proposal. I would like the result to be that small and medium-sized enterprises which cannot obtain risk capital will have better opportunities for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151719	Yes, but is the Minister also going to keep a very close eye on how the cost of this is going to develop, because it could end up being very, very expensive? In other words, what I am worried about is that it has been extended in relation to the original proposal, and then it is said that it costs the same. And if it turns out, when the financial statements come for 2019, that it's cost a lot more money, then there's kind of too little money set aside for this, and then there's a hole in the box that needs to be covered in other ways. I think that is a problem. That's why I'm asking about it. The second thing I would like to get an answer to is: two people who know each other and each has a company can invest in each other's businesses and get the deduction. Then the Minister says that we must not do so, that is what the law says. Yeah, but how do you control that? Well, this could mean a huge resource move in tax control to check that this isn't being cheated on. And instead of making new legislative changes that provide new tax holes and opportunities for cheating, was it not wiser not to do so and then prioritise tax workers' time to areas where, unfortunately, too much cheating is taking place today?
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151831	Yes, I can actually follow that view, but my job as tax minister is to clean up the tax administration. But, quite legitimately, if it was someone other than what we have now, any government has some desires for things to be changed in the area of taxation. That is something that needs to be balanced. Well, it's in these areas where you have to report a deduction and write in on your tax return that it's quite easy to monitor how much the cost is for it. I think that once a year, or when the committee asks about it, I will send an overview of what deductions have been made in 2017 for transport, what deductions have been taken as a Faroese deduction and other things, so the committee has the opportunity to keep up with it. And if the contracting party surrounding this proposal says that the prerequisites are now broken and it costs a lot more, then it is my expectation that the current tax minister will have a discussion with the contracting party on what to do to pick up that bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151934	The next question is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120151935	Thank you. I agree with the Minister, who also mentions that it may be a little complicated. I just wanted to ask you if it wouldn't give the same thing. Well, now it's 30 ptc. deduction of half. Why not 15%? of the entire investment? It's the same thing. Now I understand that this is an equational deduction. But if you couldn't just say that, instead of 800,000 kroner, it was 400,000 kroner, and then you get 30 percent. Of that? A simple example: If you invest 100 DKK. in a company, you get deductions for the 50 DKK, and 30 per cent. of 50 kroner. is so 15 kroner, I've figured it out. Why not just say it was 15%? of the 100 kroner. instead? That's 15 kroner, too. Why make it more complicated than it really is? Somehow we're boostering the numbers here just to make it a little complicated. But couldn't we just say it was 30%? of the 400,000 kroner. instead of the 800,000 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20181120152025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120152025-2	I heard Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's rapporteur's speech, and I was wondering: what should I answer to that question? I have not come up with a good answer, but we need both the second and third readings of the proposal, so I will just go home and see why it is now that last year we arrived at what we came up with, and I think that some of it is about the extent to which we could take up the regime they have in Sweden. Unfortunately, however, I do not have a good answer from the floor of this Parliament to the other excellent question, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær is quiet. So I will go home and find out what the good answer is to the second and third readings of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120152117	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120152130	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Jesper Petersen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120152155	The bill here is to translate the agreement that has been made on the reorganisation of troublesome and burdensome charges, as it is so picturesquely called, from August 2018. There are 30 initiatives in it in total: 7 taxes can be completely removed, 12 taxes can be simplified while others are reduced, and then there is a reorganisation of the law on registration fees. In addition to a tax reduction on a number of points which, when I add it together, amount to just over 200 million. kr., then there is also a value of 60 million. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. Some other important measures are also concerned with the packaging tax on mortgaged packaging and with the reorganisation and reduction of registration fees. We in the Social Democratic Party think that this is actually a good way to make some improvements in business policy to find some of these taxes, which in many cases have been discovered. Some of them also appear today as such rather strange or almost ridiculous, don't they? The Treasury Minister has told me so well that I also think a small happening was made out of it when the agreement was made about the Teddy Bear Tax, where you stood and let yourself be photographed over in Tivoli. The same applies to a completely microscopic charge on fuses, a weight tax of just over DKK 60. a year on approved tractors and the fact that there is still a tax on some goods which are prohibited from selling, or ingredients which are prohibited from putting into animal feed. There is good reason to do this reorganisation, and it is not really so politically. This reorganisation committee has been asked to find some sensible ways to clean up some of these old taxes. We have long supported that exercise and thought it was a good thing that the government did it. We were not invited to make the agreement on this and must then relate to the bill here, including dealing with the funding. And I would say that we would probably have liked it to have been found in a different way. In fact, we have been critical of several of the things that lie in funding. I also have to say that we are not going to take those taxes back to where they were, so if this bill goes through the Folketing and gets passed. That is why we will end up supporting it, and we will have to accept the funding that has been put forward. That is why I have to inform you that we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120152455	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120152507	This proposal has the same background as some of the others we have discussed today. We have made an agreement with the government and the Radical Left, where the focus of this part of the agreement is that we should have removed or sank some of the rules and taxes that do not really make so much sense or at least cause so much trouble for the companies that it is not up to the revenue you get as a state. After all, we have done away with a number of them in the past, which we have also dealt with, among other things. tax on gas in disposable lighters, tax on rain clothes, tax on nuts, although it is actually recommended in some dietary advice that people should eat them. This bill then continues down the same path. This concerns, among other things: on a weight charge for approved tractors of DKK 61. and 85 cents, and it almost goes without saying that it costs more to use gunpowder to charge it than the value of the amount you get into the proceeds. We remove the tax on certain waffles. Snuff taken orally is illegal in Denmark and it does not make much sense to have a tax on something that is illegal. There is the levy on coffee substitutes, and one might ask whether anyone drinks coffee substitutes at all. It is limited how much you can imagine you getting into the proceeds of something that hardly anyone drinks, although there may be some I don't know who likes it. Well, that certainly sounds weird. We'll get something done about the Teddy Bear Tax. A tax is in fact still gone, but there was a bottom limit for winnings of DKK 200 which had been there since 1956, and it is now raised to DKK 750, which means that you should be beyond the problem that you have had with it. The beer moderation scheme is also being improved by this bill. It is not necessarily a reorganisation, but it is actually a very good step, because it supports small breweries, and it may be Carlsberg of the future, or whatever it may be, we are dealing with, and we really think it is quite reasonable that we support the small companies that can later grow up. Then there is the packaging tax on goods that are also mortgaged and that is where we remove the packaging tax. This is a form of double regulation. After all, we have an excellent deposit system in Denmark, where a great many bottles and cans are recycled, and therefore there is no need to have a packaging tax at the same time. Then there's one of my favorites, and that's ice cream. The example is that if you have an ice cream where there are jelly inside, it means an extra charge today, but if you have the jam on the outside of the ice, it is free of charge. It is therefore a bit difficult to explain to people over the summer why there is the tax distinction, but that is now being changed, and I think that is quite reasonable. Basically, if you can't explain a tax, maybe it's a good idea to have it changed and removed, and we do that with this. There is also the tax on antibiotics and growth promoters, which is proposed to be abolished. It is the case that the European Union has actually banned their use in animal feed, but they may be used in the treatment of diseases, but it does not make much sense to maintain a tax on something that is actually prohibited by the European Union. All in all, the draft law consists of 22 different elements, and I have only mentioned some of them here, but basically I think they are all quite good, and I actually think that we should go down the same road and it should be a call from here. A round 2 could be made with a reorganisation committee, or how to deal with it. I still find it difficult to explain to the Danes why we have a charge on the air in softice. It really is a very illogical charge, and people almost laugh themselves to death when they hear about it. We also have import duties on leaving weapons. I don't know if you've met any hunters who have a leaving weapon as the most favorite weapon, because how many hunters stand and stop the gun all over again before they have to shoot a deer, or whatever it may be? It just seems uphill with taxes like that. There is a very low-practical challenge also with tax on one-off services, for example. sausage trays. If you have found someone who is very environmentally friendly, it is typically of a slightly heavier material than the others, and then they are taxed harder than those of the material that may be thrown out into the wild. The Roskilde Festival has, for example: asked and said that they have some of this one-off material that they would like to use, but it is simply too expensive to use. Should we not be able to handle it, so it was appropriate, and should we not also support the use of the things that were better? If you have to brew on it with sausage trays, I would say that if you have a sausage tray that is not very big, it is charging because it is one-time service, but if the tray is so big that it is actually the size of a dish, it is free of charge. I do not know if one could imagine coming down to the barbecue bar and having the sausages served on a whole dish in one piece, because then it was free of charge, while it is with charge, if one gets them served on a small sausage tray. It is just to mention examples of how a round 2 could be made, possibly by a reorganisation committee or otherwise, so that it was set in motion, because there are still taxes out there that are difficult to explain. I think that the tax on air in the sophistication is the one of those that is the hardest to explain. With those words, I must say that the Danish People's Party naturally supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120152956	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next in line is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120153004	Thank you for the floor. The left went to elections in 2015 at among others. I am therefore particularly pleased to be here today with a legislative proposal which simplifies the tax system and which contains about 30 good concrete improvements aimed at cleaning up the bureaucratic mess in order to reduce the administrative inconvenience for Danish companies and to make Danish companies more competitive. We have, like the previous rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, also mentioned, even before this bill ended with the nut tax and the tea tax, and here we are again trying to do something about the enormous bureaucracy that is here in Denmark. As I said, it is 30 different taxes that we are doing something about here, and that is why I do not want to go into all of them. Two of my good colleagues have already mentioned a number of them. Both of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned the packaging tax, which I am very pleased we are doing something about. We still have a mortgage on packaging, on bottles, but it is nice that we remove the tax, because there must be an incentive to reuse and not just a general tax. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær also referred to the Ice Tax Act, and it is also one of them that I am extremely pleased that we are doing something about. Together with the Tax Committee, I visited a company here in Denmark where we heard about how difficult it is to sell ice cream. It is simply the case today that those who sell the mass should ask the restaurant they sell it to, which softice machine they have standing in the restaurant, and then they should contact the producer of the softice machine and have them explain how much softice comes out of a litre of softice mass. It may take a little time before the percentage understands why he has to provide such information, and then when they finally get it, they can calculate the actual size of this charge. It's incredibly complicated. Unfortunately, we do not have the money to completely remove the tax, but we give them the opportunity instead of choosing a general calculation formula, so they don't have to have this huge administrative trouble finding out which machine is in each restaurant and what specifications are on these machines in the countries concerned. I think that can be a really great help. Another charge that we are going to do something about is that with the background of the reorganisation committee set up by the government after the 2015 elections... is the registration fee. It is an enormously complicated tax where there have been different rates for panthers in different places. It is being simplified now so that it becomes easier to deal with. Overall, we do not reduce registration fees as such, but we expect the industry to save a considerable amount of administrative burdens. So all in all, we think that this is a way in which the Left contributes to fulfilling our promise to make it simpler to be a company in Denmark and to do away with some of the failed taxes. So the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120153313	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120153330	There are a great many taxes that are being proposed to be abolished in this bill, which is very good to abolish, for example. the tax on coffee substitutes and addition, the tax on coffee, some of the taxes mentioned by other rapporteurs from up here today. It's fine for us to remove them. They don't give much money, and they don't seem intuitively very meaningful either. On the other hand, we do not see that it should be wise to remove, for example. the tax on pawned packaging. It's polluting, so why make it cheaper? We believe on the part of the Enhedslisten that it is also unclear what the consequences will be of repealing the law on the tax of antibiotics and growth promoters used in animal feed. We are therefore going to ask some written questions and are waiting for answers to them before we can deal more precisely with the element of the legislative proposal that concerns it, since it is absolutely crucial for us that a tax reduction does not lead to a greater use of antibiotics in, for example, the United Kingdom. our pig production. The reason why it might lead to this is that, according to the proposal, most of the taxable substances are currently prohibited from being used as an additive in animal nutrition. That's it, too, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned. The substances used today are therefore used solely to prevent or combat disease and therefore are not subject to tax. That is true, but part of the problem in agriculture is that animals are given an incredibly high amount of antibiotics, in disease control, and it has to be said that if the taxes are lower, everything else will be the same as getting an incentive to use more and not less antibiotics. So we will have to ask about this in the course of the committee procedure. So, while there are a lot of taxes that are being removed, which we can easily see the point of, but there is also the problem of the tax on mortgaged packaging and the tax exemption on antibiotics, which I have just explained, our immediate position on this will be that we are not positive about the proposal but are, on the contrary, negative about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120153610	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120153622	Thank you for that, President. With this bill, we are lifting administrative burdens from business for about 55 million. kr. We are doing this by removing a large number of crazy taxes which do not provide any particular revenue to the Treasury and which require a lot of time and a lot of administration out in the real world. We think that is right, very sensible. These taxes, which most politicians find difficult to explain why we have at all, are also helping to reduce support for the tax system. It is simply too silly, and the tax system will seem unnecessarily zealous. So it's good that it gets cleaned up. We can, of course, give our full support to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120153729	Thank you to LA's rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120153741	In the alternative, we are also positive about the bill. When I first saw it in the form it had when it was included in the package that was adopted, I also thought that it looked good. When, in the alternative, we are very aware of actually using green taxes to promote a green agenda, we must also be keen on and willing to debureaucratise in terms of creating the confidence that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has just said to the tax system, so that we do not have any taxes that are simply foolish or that make it all much more difficult. That is why we will probably end up saying yes, even though we have the same challenges as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned just now, with two of the elements, that is to say, on growth promoters and then the packaging tax. We must ask about this in committee. However, in general terms, if we cannot agree on the two elements, we will probably ask whether we can divide up the legislative proposal. Because we really want to help to bring down the troublesome taxes that are not needed. We also have a duty to do so when we are actually willing to use both VAT and green taxes in general from the point of view of the alternative. Otherwise, we will create more trouble for citizens and for businesses, and that is not what we have promised in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120153903	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then I welcome the radical rapporteur, sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120153911	Thank you. Here in the Folketing we use the concept of a collective law, and I think this proposal is, I think, a definition of what a collective law is. For there are, after all, a wide range of different measures that are put together in one law. That is why I would also like to say to the Alternative and to other parties who might wish to divide up the bill, that we would certainly like to take part in it, so that parties can vote in favour of the parts of the bill they are in favour of and against other parts. In the Radical Left, we are in favour of the entire bill, as we are in different agreements with the government and the Danish People's Party on precisely the initiatives that are here. I do not want to sneak them all up, but I want to make two radical wishes and priorities. The first is that we would like to commend the government and the Treasury for collecting a lot of citizens' requests for trouble and inappropriateness in different tax laws and then bring it together and also set up a committee with the Danish business community and find a large number of initiatives where, when you see it, you have to say that it seems quite strange and completely on the Moon that we have such legislation at all. Among other things: We have taxes that tax something that no longer exists. It is perfectly logical to change the tax legislation. There are also some things that can facilitate the administration of tax in companies and in the tax administration, which also seems very logical to have a look at. We are very happy to participate in this, and we are pleased to have a large number of laws cleaned up that have proved inappropriate and troublesome for both the authorities and the companies. Then we have had one concrete wish. That was to look at what is called the beer moderation scheme. Now perhaps some people are thinking that it will be a little too merry here on Tuesday afternoon. But that is because in the Radical Left we want to promote small and medium-sized food and spirits/beer producers around our rural areas. We believe that very many places around the country will be able to create a great many new jobs by making legislation, including tax legislation, so that it will be easier to be a smaller producer. The beer moderation scheme is a small scheme affecting small beer producers. So it is not because we are going to see a huge revolution in jobs in rural areas. But it is a helping hand for the real, very many small microbreweries that are around. We are pleased to be able to give a helping hand with this minor initiative. With those words, we can support the bill, both as it stands, but also if it is divided.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120154159	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120154207	Some of these charges have been called crazy, and I think that's very accurate. Charges must serve a purpose, they must be proportionate and fair in relation to what we want to promote, whether it is green conversion or health or cleaner air or something else. After all, it is amusing to read the list of taxes based on things which either no longer exist, people no longer consume or which are illegal, and that, of course, should not be taxed. In a whole range of areas, we think this makes really, really good sense. One of my colleagues also referred to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen; we do not therefore agree so often that, in order to maintain confidence and support for a tax system where we think it makes sense, we should of course not have a tax system which imposes unnecessary burdens on the revenue that comes in and on the purpose it should serve. We could also see it in the debate on the nut tax that, if you cannot defend a tax, you should not keep it. There are, however, two things that come to mind: the abolition of duties on antibiotics and growth promoters in animal feed, and we lack answers from the SF to how it is related before we can finally say that we support the bill. But we would like, if we do not promote any of the things we would like to see reduced in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120154355	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Anders Johansson as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120154405	Thank you. The legislative proposal here is yet another implementation of the business and entrepreneurial package, which is excellent. The title of the draft law here is taxation, but perhaps we could add a few, at least many of the taxes that we are now getting abolished, which are absolutely meaningless and which are probably primarily historically conditional. Today is a day of relief, at least for burden bear Teddy. He has long been burdened with taxes, but now we are raising the bottom line for gambling on goods gains, which in practice means that the teddy bear tax will be abolished. And I should say hello from the bear bear Teddy and thank the governing parties, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left for their success. The reorganisation package and the present legislative proposal contain a total of 30 good initiatives, with which we remove troublesome and wasted taxes to the great delight of the business community. The initiatives are estimated to reduce the overall burden on the economy of the administration of some 60 million. kr. In the Conservative People's Party, we are pleased that with the bill here we are taking another stand with some of the banged taxes we have in Denmark. I would like to sign up to those parties that have helped to find funding for the package, thus making it possible to relax and remove 30 taxes. It benefits Danish business, and thus it also makes Denmark richer, it strengthens competitiveness, and it also ensures that companies can focus more on developing their business rather than spending time and resources on reporting, on trouble and on bureaucracy. Of course, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120154552	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120154603	First of all, thank you for receiving the bill. We are here implementing the agreement on troublesome and burdensome charges concluded on 23 August this year between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. With the agreement, we are following up on the business and entrepreneurship agreement with another tax relief package, and some of the legislative proposals we have had earlier today are, after all, implementing the excellent agreement reached there last November. The clean-up of troublesome and burdensome taxes has been and will continue to be a priority task for me as tax minister and for the government. This is an important task for a number of reasons; I shall just try to mention the three most important ones: firstly, we make the legislative proposal here simpler. This also makes the tax system a little less complicated. Secondly, we are reducing administrative burdens for business so that companies can spend their energy and resources on other and better things, for example. to create value for society. I know that there are some of the proposals that do not entail much administrative relief, but the rules that are proposed here have been a source of irritation for many companies. It's been a messed-up charge. And such annoyances often occur in the context of rules that citizens or companies find illogical, unreasonable or even incomprehensible. It has to be said that some of the things we have been correcting here have been, and they have been for many years. Thirdly, the task is also important because it brings financial relief for businesses and citizens, and that is what some of the proposals in this draft law will do. That is why I am very pleased that, as Minister for Taxation and the Left, I am helping to clean up some of the crazy taxes. This was one of the things that a number of parties met with at the last elections, including my own, namely that we are now getting rid of the crazy taxes that we have had for historical reasons over the years and that it is difficult to defend professionally, factually or with common sense, regardless of whether you see it from the point of view of the citizen, company or tax administration. The new tax relief package aims to implement 30 initiatives, which have been mentioned by a number of rapporteurs, and, as I have said, the initiatives must contribute to the clean-up and simplification of the tax system by abolishing, relaxing and simplifying a number of taxes. There are currently a number of taxes in which the consideration of State revenue clearly does not measure up to the administrative burdens imposed on companies, and that does not serve anyone, nor does it benefit the Treasury, nor does it benefit a tax administration that should be trusted. That is why it is important for me, as the Minister for Taxation, to have the taxes set more wisely and in a way that is administratively as appropriate as is now possible, both for companies and for the economy. There are a number of the rapporteurs who have mentioned some of the 30 proposals, so I will not go into them in detail, but I will mention just one of them, which I myself have cast my love on, if you will. It is a question of abolishing the weight charge for approved tractors, which has not been regulated for 40 years. This means that every six months, not once a year, but twice a year, are paid DKK 30. in weight tax per unit of weight, tractor of approx. Eighty thousand tractors. I became aware of this because there was a citizen who wrote to me. He wrote that now he had received this charge for so many years, and he asked me: Does it make sense? Is it even worth sending out letters via e-Boks and having unpaid bills and using the Debt Board and everything else for citizens to pay such a limited amount? And it has to be said that the honest answer is: it is not worthwhile. Then, of course, you can choose to raise the amount to what it would have been if it had been indexed over the last 40 years, but I really do not think that that is fair, nor would it give very much money in the Treasury, or you can choose to abolish the tax. Fortunately, that is what has been a majority in favour of, and I would like to sign for that. We are cleaning up some of the hacked taxes and we are getting a tax system with taxes that makes more sense than before. The tax system must be made as simple as possible, and this should not entail unnecessary burdens for businesses or for tax administration. So with this tax package, which is the second in the line, we are implementing most of the recommendations of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and that is why I think it is appropriate today to sign up for the great work done by the inter-branch organisations which have sat on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. They must welcome the fact that the recommendations of their work are not one to one, because there are also some politicians who have some opinions and have put their impressions on this package • have been largely implemented for the benefit of all and to the detriment of virtually none, except the Treasury, which has suffered a very limited revenue loss. Socially speaking, this makes good sense because we are now simplifying and reducing the administrative burden on companies by 55 million. kr. annual. So it is a good proposal which it suggests enjoys broad support in the Folketing. I look forward to the committee reading and to the adoption of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120155123	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120155137	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Thomas Jensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120155201	Thank you, President. Social democracy can support the proposed amendments to the annual accounts law, which will ensure the correct implementation of the EU Accounting Directive and the amending directive, so that we ensure that the requirements are clear and clear for Danish companies. It is good that a general precautionary principle is introduced, and it is also good that an essential principle is introduced into the annual accounts law. Then there is the implementation of the corporate statement on social responsibility in the Financial Statements Act. Here again it has become apparent that there is a need to clarify the rules. It has obviously not been sufficiently clear in the current legislation that companies cannot simply say 'yes' or 'no' to whether the company has a social responsibility policy. This bill ensures that the company also has to describe its social responsibility policy. In addition, it has also been shown that the Danish interpretation of the follow-up or explanation principle has not been clear as regards the requirements for an undertaking to provide an explanation in cases where companies have chosen not to have a social responsibility policy in one or more of the specified areas. As a result of the bill, the company will then have to provide a clear justification and explanation for opting out that it does not have a policy in this area. The amending directive allows Member States to allow a company to refrain from providing information in the statement on social responsibility if the publication here would cause significant damage to the company. And that is understandable in some cases, no doubt about it, but we also need to make sure that this provision is not used to circumvent the corporate social responsibility. Then I have noted that the Global Focus and the 92 Group have some requests for further action and demands regarding corporate social responsibility statements, and of course the Social Democrats are also in favour of them. But I think we should first have some more experience of the current rules and then the clarifications we make with this law. I have noted that positive action is taking place in this area also in other EU countries, and it would also be relevant for us here in Denmark to look at other countries' actions and take a debate and assessment of it at home so that we do not lag behind the others. Then there's an element in the bill here that's about the accounting law. An accountant is, after all, like the public's trust representative in the sense that an accountant can assure all of us each year of how things stand in a company. In order to carry out this social task, an accountant must of course be well trained and continuously trained, so that the professional qualifications are top. That is why it is also positive about the austerity that is being proposed in this draft law, so that we make sure that auditors are qualified to carry out the task. Then there is an element that deals with the authorisation law for dual use equipment. Dual use equipment are such products that may have more than one use option. There is a primary use that is good and sensible, which Danish companies must of course sell and export everything they can. But there are also other uses, for example. in the hands of a dictator or tyrant somewhere in the world. Then it can be used to monitor populations and it can be used to suppress populations or individuals. As a free democratic society, as we are here in Denmark, we must constantly look at how we can prevent Danish companies from becoming involved in the delivery of their products to wrong customers. Therefore, the Social Democracy can also support the strengthening of export controls that are taking place here about cyber surveillance equipment. And when amending this Authorization Act, the Minister of Industry may lay down rules that certain applications for export of dual-use products must be accompanied by a declaration in which the company's management agrees that the application has been processed and approved at management level. It is a good and important step for the senior management to sign it so that we ensure that the proper procedures are applied. I would also like to stress that Denmark should therefore be a pioneering country in this area. We must ensure that in the international cooperation we participate in, we are the ones who put this on the agenda and ensure that it is not just in Denmark that we have taken some action in relation to this, but that it is also done internationally. Because if we don't do it internationally, it's the case that it's just other countries' companies that are supplying this equipment, and then Danish companies are left and have complied with all the guidelines, and others can start to outperform them on the world market. That is why we must, of course, ensure that Denmark takes the lead where we can, so as to ensure that there is no repression around the world. Overall, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120155641	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120155652	Well, it's always a pleasure to come after Mr. Knox. Thomas Jensen, because there is hardly a comma that has not been told about the legislative initiatives. It was also relatively easy in this case, since it is not the world's largest law we are dealing with. But that should not prevent us from saying that the draft law put forward by the government is a bill that we can support. It is true that the legislative proposal aims to ensure that the EU accounting directive is properly implemented in relation to the annual accounts law and the auditor's law as regards the further training of auditors. With the training requirements imposed on them, it is, of course, common sense that we should get these things clarified. These changes are relatively small in both places. As Mr. Thomas Jensen also mentioned that there may be a place where there is some content in this bill. So this is the dual use in relation to the types of products that can be used for more than one bet, for example. the fact that IT equipment can be used both to monitor the population, on digital media, for example, and at the same time to other more regular and reasonable initiatives in a society. Perhaps that's why we had that debate earlier if we go back well a year and a half, in fact about a company in Aalborg, BAE, which had produced something and also sold it to another country, which had also been approved by the then Minister of Business, who, through this application process, has been given a correct assessment. We also supported this in the Danish People's Party, because we thought it was quite appropriate to provide that equipment, but it is clear that the equipment must be assessed in the specific cases that may come. Unfortunately, the company in question is now closed and it has left Denmark, why 160 people lost their jobs, so it can be said that at least they will not be making the new applications. But if there are other applications, it is the case that with this law we also ensure that there will be an extended authorisation, among other things. Whereas it is said that there must be a statement with an application, it must also be ensured that the management of the undertaking concerned has signed that they have been involved in the examination of the specific application at a high level. And the Danish People's Party also thinks it makes sense to make these perhaps a little square, but also quite reasonable and basic demands on these types of companies that should be able to get into this situation in an export market. We can support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120155955	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Torsten Schack Pedersen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120155956	Thank you. Now the bill has been examined relatively thoroughly, so if I stick to it a little more overall, there is a good reason for it. The aim of the proposal is to ensure the correct and appropriate implementation of the EU Accounting Directive and the EU amending directive, and this requires changes in the annual accounts law, the auditor's law and the authorisation law respectively, and it has an impact on changes in the rules on corporate accountability, so that the requirements are clear and clear, so that you know what you have to comply with. There are changes that ensure that the laws in the field of auditing are adapted to new international accounting standards. It also contains an amendment to the statutory auditor's law, which allows for more flexible and targeted continuing training which can be adapted to the needs of each auditor, and more sanctions will also be introduced if you as an auditor do not comply with continuing training requirements, because it is of course important that the auditors are sharp on recent legislation so that the audit can give a true picture and there is credibility about the accounts. In addition, the bill amends the law on the application of certain EU legal acts on financial relations with third countries, and it is a question of strengthening export controls on exports of so-called cyber-monitoring equipment. It also includes what is called dual-use and what we ensure is that management should in future be involved in the application for export licences for such equipment, and this should increase the attention of management to the customers and countries with which companies trade, so that management has the finger on the pulse in the sale of such products. Basically, it is important that we have confidence in the accounts that are being presented. This is an important basic condition and, now that we are implementing the most recent directives from the European Union in this area, we will ensure consistency with our neighbouring countries, and this will hopefully provide an even greater clarity and also a level playing field in relation to what information companies have to describe in their accounts. This basically makes quite good sense, which is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120160217	With that we say thank you to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then it's Enhedslisten who's coming on the podium, and that's mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120160224	I will be very brief. The Enhedslisten also immediately welcomes the bill. There are parts of what we need to have looked at in committee, but we welcome the fact that some rules are being clarified on annual accounts, on auditor training and, above all, on the issue of the export of dualuse, where a report has also just been made in the Defence Committee which follows up further the intention, which is therefore to prevent the export of products to problematic states which can be used for purposes other than those intended, that is to say, military purposes or purposes which may be detrimental to human rights in the countries concerned. Finally, it is positive that a little more attention is given to the issue of corporate social responsibility. We would like to see far more clear and comprehensive measures in this area, which would provide a better and more uniform opportunity to assess the performance of different companies in these areas. It is still difficult to compare the different standards, so it will be beneficial for a variety of reasons. So we take a positive view of the draft law, but will of course look at it in the course of the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120160408	Thank you. It was so close, you could make a commitment without giving it. The next one is sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120160418	Thank you for that, President. This proposal is, after all, a collection of different measures. There are a number of technical changes in relation to the implementation of EU legislation in the field of accounting. More substantial changes include the possibility for companies with the proposal to omit certain information in their public liability statement if the disclosure of information is detrimental to the company in a pending legal dispute or negotiation. These are rules that also exist in a number of other countries and it makes good sense for us to change that. The proposal also requires the 85 largest listed companies to account for their diversity policy or lack thereof. This requirement stems from an EU directive. It should not be a secret that we are not in favour of companies having to, but now it is EU legislation, and that is why we have to implement it in Danish legislation. However, we believe that this is one of the areas in which the European Union should stay out of this. In addition, the proposal also contains minor amendments to the auditor's law and the strengthening of the export control law. The strengthening of export controls shall ensure that management is involved and approve each export application in relation to cyber surveillance products. It must ensure greater control over these products, which could potentially be used for human rights violations. Overall, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120160605	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's the alternative, and that's Mr. Knox. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120160613	We are also in favour of the bill. In general, the diversity agenda is very important for us in the alternative. Sometimes you might ask: Why? Isn't it wrong to care so much about making such strict rules and settings? Yes, but we're thinking that there's a structural problem in several parts of society, so that's what we're going to do. We are also in favour of securing the other measures in the legislative proposal. They have gone through well, but I will focus on dual use improvements, in other words, on what we can export abroad, in the field where it is technology that can also be used for warfare or surveillance. This is very close to me, because we were several parties in the Folketing, who were close to the meeting and there are several ministers who have been close to the agenda earlier. Many have unwittingly helped to say yes, perhaps because we thought the systems were good enough at the time, and that control was good enough, but where we end up exporting systems that can be used for something good and sensible and exploit Danish technology and know-how, but where they end up in the hands of regimes that are not acceptable to a country like Denmark that has such high standards of what we want to deliver on the human rights agenda and what we want to stand for in general as a country. That was among other things. The newspaper Information and the BBC, which had this agenda, I think it was a year and a half ago. It was really, really good digging journalism that helped us politicians gain insight. Conversely, it is also difficult to stand as politicians and actually criticise the practice we had at home. Because, as we have just heard, there are jobs that smoke when you raise the moral agenda as high as we did there and look at what we are actually exporting abroad. But it was necessary for us, in the Alternative, to shout guardly in arms, and I also see this action as a recognition that it has not been good enough so far. You can go even further, but we can always do that later. I just think we should be pleased that this bill at least prevents delivery of dual use systems to states that can use it for monitoring purposes. You could simply choose to say that you do not want to export to countries on a given list, where you have found out who you do not want to export something like this to, because you think it is regimes that have a habitus that actually use it to suppress the population. It was hard to argue about exactly what that list would look like when we last sat and worked on it. There were many pitfalls. Should entire countries be excluded, and how should this be done? That is why I think I would just like to say that if you choose to export to countries where there are regimes that use it for monitoring and where we know that human rights are being suppressed, then at least we have to be sharper than we were last when we were sitting on the consultations and delving into this. As I recall, the then minister simply had to navigate in a field where we exported to people there are some of the information that is confidential, so you can't get so close to that and parts of regimes that were so obviously close to doing something illegal with these systems, but where we hadn't acted on it anyway. There I think that in the alternative we are a little less defensive and then perhaps abandon some export agreements in order to live up to the human rights that we are guarding here at home. It is sad that some companies have to close down. Then we hope that we can get agreements in other areas by keeping the made in Denmark flag high and that we do not deliver weapons and systems and surveillance to regimes that exploit it. So that is a big yes from the alternative to improving matters in this area. It could be considered not to deliver to regimes that have the habit of abusing it. But we have not invented the list ourselves yet for how to exclude individual countries. We have talked about it, but we are pleased with where we have landed now.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161018	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161024	Thank you very much, President. The Radical Left, too, can endorse the draft law, which improves in a number of areas, we believe, practice in relation to today. I will not repeat all the comments and reviews of the proposal that have been made, but just draw attention to two areas which we will pay particular attention to from the radical side. One is, as several rapporteurs have said, and as some consultation answers also indicate: How much are our demands on Danish companies when it comes to reporting on sustainability and human rights in the value chain behind the companies? This is something we will be discussing, I think, in several rounds in the future. I would like to say that we want as high a level of ambition as possible. But it is also a theme, we think, which is very well suited to European standards, because we will have a much greater impact if we get these things through at European level in relation to third countries and, of course, Danish competitiveness will also be less affected if they are pan-European decisions. That is why we would perhaps like to see a commitment from the Minister to ensure that Denmark, in addition to implementing what we are now doing here, will work to get further at European level in the time that comes. The same comment I could almost be tempted to make in relation to the other, this one with the export of dual-use cyber surveillance equipment. In fact, we have just adopted the whole Parliamentary Assembly a report which calls for the government to tighten up practice in Denmark and seek a more restrictive practice at European level, which the government has also endorsed, as we were pleased about. Therefore, we see this as part of the implementation of the report that we have agreed on, but only as a start, one can say. I also hope that the government interprets it that way. With those comments, we agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161232	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161240	Thank you very much. The legislative proposal here, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, aims to ensure the correct, complete and appropriate implementation of the EU Accounting Directive. Following the implementation of the Accounting Directive in 2015, it has become clear that on that occasion there have been some minor technical errors on some points, such as: Because of the fact that the Commission was very slow to clarify a number of different uncertainties, for example. in relation to the precautionary principle and the introduction of requirements for diversity statements. In addition, the draft law proposes, inter alia, that the rules on public liability statements, which were also introduced in the context of the 2015 Directive, be amended. With the proposal, the requirements are described more clearly in order to avoid companies having doubts as to what to disclose. It can, for example, be done. A second point I would like to mention is the changes to the rules on export controls. After all, there are some products that we cannot just export freely to countries that we do not want to support, for example. if the products can be used for hostile acts against Denmark or our allies or otherwise can be used to violate human rights. The draft law provides that export applications for cyber-monitoring equipment should in future be accompanied by a statement from the management of the company. This is, of course, a way of ensuring that the management has at least taken a positive view of the application, and I think that is a sensible thing to do. In addition, I have also understood that the government will continue to work for common rules in this area through the European Union, and we in the Conservatives also very much welcome this. Of course, Danish products should not be involved either in deliberately or inadvertently supporting breaches of human rights. Overall, of course, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161448	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. Then we've gotten to hear the Minister of Industry on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161510	Thank you for supporting the bill. It was almost all around that there was a lot of support. And, in fact, I very much agree with most of the comments that have been made that what has been put forward here is basically uncontroversial and reasonable common sense. This applies to most of what the government puts forward, i.e. that it is common sense, but it is good that some people sometimes agree with it. After all, the main elements of the draft law are five things. As paragraph 1, there is the implementation of the EU Accounting Directive and the adaptation to international accounting rules. Then, like paragraph 2, there is the amendment to the rules on explaining social responsibility. As paragraph 3, there is the introduction of a requirement for a statement on diversity. As point 4 there are adjustments in the Audit Act. Finally, paragraph 5 introduces a new requirement into the rules on export controls on dual use, as several of the rapporteurs have mentioned. As far as the implementation of the Accounting Directive is concerned, we would like the Financial Statements Act to be updated so that we have a proper implementation of the EU directive. And then we would also like to have the opportunity to follow international accounting standards, which is an advantage in terms of being able to communicate with abroad and have one's accounting policies. In relation to social responsibility, as several of you have also mentioned, it is primarily a matter of describing the rules more clearly so that companies are not in doubt about what information they are obliged to provide. At the same time, we also introduce the possibility that, in certain situations, very exceptionally, information may not be disclosed if it could cause significant damage to the company in the course of ongoing negotiations or litigation. In terms of diversity, we propose to introduce a provision on corporate diversity policy. It is a requirement stemming from the EU directive to create transparency about the diversity of management composition. This does not mean that we have a duty to have a policy of diversity, which may be reassuring, among other things. Liberal Alliance, but if you have a policy, you have to explain it and if you do not have a policy, then you have to explain why you do not have it. This will apply to approx. 85 Danish companies, and therefore there is no excessive spread of diversity reporting, which might reassure the Liberal Alliance. And to those who are very concerned about diversity, among others. The alternative, one might say, is probably a step in the direction of the Alternative, and we are, of course, pleased that they support the bill. In relation to amendments to the statutory auditor's law, it is primarily about the rules for auditors' continuing training, so there is a little more flexibility in taking the mandatory continuing training that auditors must have so that they are constantly updated. In relation to the export control rules, the draft law proposes to amend the Authorization Act. The government proposes that in future applications for permission to export cyber-monitoring equipment should be accompanied by a management statement in which the company's management agrees that the application has been read and approved, so we are sure that the companies at the top level will vouch for what is being handed over to the authorities. These are very briefly the main elements of the draft law. Otherwise, I think that has been well examined by several of the rapporteurs here. And we thank you for your support for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161912	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161917	Thank you for your review. It may be outside the draft law, but I still think that it is so close that I will ask about it, and otherwise I will just put the question in writing instead. Has it been on the Minister's table perhaps to make the selection of countries, states to which we simply do not want to export, for example dual use equipment? We discussed it earlier in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, and, as I also spoke from the platform, it was really difficult to make a list that was proper and did not exclude anyone who did not actually deserve to be excluded. But is this something that has been discussed in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120161950	I have no idea at all that this is something we have discussed in the Ministry. I would like to reply to it in writing if Mr. René Gade will pass on the question. In any case, I do not have in mind that this should be something we have discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120162007	With that, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181120162021	Then there is one message: the Transport, Building and Housing Committee has informed me that, pursuant to paragraph 12 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, has taken up Bill No. L 38, proposal for a law amending the law on general housing etc., the law on rental of general housing and the law on rental, referral back to committee between the second and third readings. Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 21 November 2018, at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
