ParlaMint-DK_20180522130039	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: a motion for a resolution supplementing the normal punishment for vandalism, with payment for the restoration of the vandalism. B 97). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130130	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130156	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130214	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 10 (ALT and SF), abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130250	No amendments have been tabled Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130325	The members of the Social Democratic Party have informed me that they wish to accept Amendment No. 1-3 of the report back. Does anyone wish to include these proposals? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130407	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130423	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 2 is rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130511	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130524	I would ask that it be referred back to committee because we have received some very good answers from the Minister, whom we would like to see printed in the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130543	It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130609	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130616	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL and SF). The vote is over. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130702	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130714	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130734	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130757	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6 outside the report by the Minister for Health? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130827	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130843	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130904	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130925	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522130957	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131014	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-22, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131034	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131112	Here's to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131129	Thank you. It is, of course, a legislative proposal which is very sympathetic to the fact that it is a question of transferring some loans to the general sector, so that one billion per year will be saved. It would be very good if the tenants were to benefit. That is just not the case, and I really think it is regrettable that there is such a bill, in which neither the written presentation nor the legal text itself indicates that there are, in that sense, a number of parties involved in a defence settlement which have undertaken to vote in favour of this bill and take this money and finance a defence settlement with them. It's about a lot of money. At first it's only 600 million, but quite quickly it's going to be one billion a year, and up to 2050 if you see it as a whole, it's actually a billion a year that's being saved, and that money doesn't benefit the tenants. We could imagine in the Enhedslisten that a model had been chosen where it was they who had the newer loans which then got it cheaper. There the Social Democrats have been out to say that it might be a saving of DKK 8 000. per year in the newer general housing. That is a fairly substantial amount. We have then landed an amendment in which we propose that the saved amount be put into the Landsbygningsfonden, and thus all general housing units would have the opportunity to apply for this money, and then they would benefit the tenants. We think that would be a reasonable model. So I am here to draw attention to the fact that there is in fact a very good amendment which can ensure that we have more general housing renovated. There has been a certain interest recently in what conditions there are in the general sector, and with an extra billion a year for renovations one could go a very long way. So I would like to appeal to a little more people to vote in favour of the amendment we are about to vote on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131325	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131332	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF and ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 4, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131428	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131446	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131511	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131522	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and ALT). The vote is over. In favour 37 (DF, EL and ALT), against 71 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131605	Does anyone wish to speak? There is. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131616	Thank you for that, President. It was a good discussion we had at first reading that a great many foreign companies come to the country and earn some good money, and then they do not comply with the rules we have and then they run away again. It has not improved and I do not think we should put up with it. I think we should take this very seriously. Of course, what you have to do as a foreign company is to register in what we call the RUT register, i.e. the Register for Foreign Service providers, because then the Factory Inspectorate can enforce the working environment and much more. The problem is that there are a lot of companies that don't sign up for this register. There are very many companies that do not care and fail to pay. Others do not pay or correct, and then they simply hurry to run away to their homeland again. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are in fact very pleased with this proposal and also support it because there have been some tightenings in which the Minister proposes some daily penalty payments. But we in the Social Democratic Party do not think that is enough. We believe that we need to be even harder and make even more rigours in relation to foreign companies that come here and cheat and do not have a proper working environment and do not comply with the rules that everyone else has to comply with. That is why we have just tabled this amendment calling for the daily penalty payments to be set at 50%. higher up to DKK 1,500. We think it should be expensive if we do not comply with these rules. When I was reading the various papers, I was extremely happy because I could see that it says in the answer to question 1: It is noted that the government can endorse the proposal. It is not often when you, as an opposition party, make a proposal that you see the government joining it. So I just have to say thank you very much from the platform for that. Having said that, I would like to say that as a good opposition politician, as I myself think I am, one can also say that one can have divided opinions about • should we not do even more tightening together? Why don't we make the other $10,000 fines? and 20,000 kroner. Even taller? When the companies that are in this country and do not pay their things and run away come back here, you must not take that money away from them and say: you owe a fine. You can't do that. Nor should it be done if they change their place of work to another part of the country. Shouldn't we do these things too, so we make sure these things are being hunted so much that they at least pay and, ultimately, behave? These are the things I would like to see tightened up even more, and that is the kind of thing I am calling on the Minister now when I look at him: Minister! Call us. We in the Social Democratic Party are ready to tighten this up even more. However, I would like to take the liberty of welcoming from the platform that it seems that the Social Democratic Party is being given a majority in this area and that it will be more expensive if, as a foreign company, you come here and cheat in relation to what all our other companies have to do. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131910	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522131916	Thank you for that, President. So, this amendment from the Social Democratic Party, I have to say that the Danish People's Party, of course, supports it. It is a good proposal and it is good that we can get it right. I am also pleased that we can help the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, by pointing out that there was in fact a majority in favour of this proposal. So congratulations. This is also in the direction that we in the Danish People's Party would like to see. However, when a mistake is made when we issue a report, we must of course also acknowledge in the Danish People's Party that a mistake has been made, and then say here from the platform that we support that amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132007	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132013	Thank you. On behalf of the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Left, I should like to say that, in more detail, we will support the Social Democrats' amendments. That is a good thing and we will support it here at second reading. As the Socialist rapporteur has rightly explained, this is a proposal to increase the daily penalty payments by 50%. in relation to the enforcement of registration in the RUT registry. I should also like to inform you that we want to have the bill returned to the committee for further consideration between the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132057	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. In view of the comments now being made, I consider Amendment No. 1 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF), now joined by the other committee, as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132141	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. Then there must be quiet, because now Members have just had so much time to finish talking and walk out of the Chamber. It has to be quiet now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132342	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, adopted by the Committee, on Amendments Nos 1 and 2. 3 or on Amendment No 3 by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL and SF) or by a majority of its members. 4 and 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132412	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The next item is the removal of the item. This is the first reading of No. B 97.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132503	The debate is open. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132508	Thank you. The motion for a resolution proposes that persons convicted of sexual assault on children should have their passports withdrawn and only be returned to them when it is considered medically that they will not continue to commit new abuses. After all, this is a very important subject which the authors of the motion for a resolution raise and an issue which must be very dear to all of us. Sexual abuse of children is one of the worst crimes a person can commit, and the abuse will often put deep marks in the child's future life. I also see it as a key task as the Minister of Justice to ensure that such atrocities are put to good use and that the victims are helped to the best possible extent. But for me this is not a question of geography, and so it has nothing to do with whether or not the paedophile sentenced person has a passport. If there is a risk that a paedophile will commit new acts of violence, then that risk is present, regardless of whether he has a passport or not. If you commit abuse against a child, you must go to prison regardless of whether the atrocity has been committed against a Danish or foreign child. That is why I am pleased that Parliament, with a proposal from the then VK government back in 2006, ensured that it is possible to prosecute Danes who are sexually exploiting children abroad, and that is, regardless of whether the relationship is otherwise punishable in the country where it is committed. It is also important to me that we cooperate internationally in the fight against the sexual abuse of children, and we do so, among other things. under the auspices of the European Union and through alerts to Europol's information system on paedophilia. But we must also remember the victims. Recently, with the justice package, the government has therefore implemented a series of measures aimed at ensuring greater justice for victims and, in particular, children who have been subjected to sexual abuse. In this connection, we have among other things. removed the limitation period for the perpetrator's liability in cases of sexual abuse of children so that the perpetrator can always be held liable. We have also abolished the limitation periods for claims for compensation and compensation against public authorities who have failed in cases where a child has been subjected to abuse. This has even happened retroactively. This means that a managing authority will always be able to be held liable for damages in these cases, even if the claim was obsolete before the adoption of the justice package. At the same time, we have introduced a lower limit for tort allowance of DKK 150,000. in serious cases of sexual abuse of children, and the level of reimbursement in all cases of sexual abuse has been increased. Although the justice package ensures victims and children in particular who have been subjected to sexual abuse, a fairer treatment, we are always willing to look at new proposals. We can and must always try to do even better. And I sympathise with the thoughts behind the proposal here on what we can do best to prevent child abuse, because it is absolutely crucial that paedophiles do not expose children to new abuse. That is why you have to be punished if you commit abuse against children, and that is whether it is in Denmark or abroad. It's not a question of geography. That is why we cannot support the proposal. I've really been looking for how to get these things to hang Well, in my world, it's two things that I don't think you can link. I simply do not understand the link. Criminals are going to jail, and we are going to try to treat them so that they do not commit new abuses, but whether they have a passport or not, I don't think that matters in relation to the treatment of sex offenders. That is why I simply do not understand the context, and that is why we do not support the proposal. I think we should focus on punishing those who do this, helping the victims and, of course, also seeing if we can treat people who are criminals so that they do not commit new sexual abuse. But it is not a question of geography.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132912	[Sound Falls]... yes, that's not so good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522132938	Then sound came on. That's great. It was a little difficult. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I am, of course, sorry that the government cannot support the proposal and that the Minister also says that the two things have nothing to do with each other. It was then when we dealt with legislation to remove the passport from Syrian warriors or foreign fighters. That's where you connect these two things. This is an attempt to ensure that Denmark does not export sexual abuse to countries where the authorities can operate in a worse way than they do here. For all the Minister's explanations that things have improved in Denmark are absolutely right. And that's because the government together with, among other things. The Danish People's Party, but also with others, has taken leadership in this area and has taken care to improve some things. Happily enough. But in Australia, you're using this model. So that's where you think you can tie this together. Can the Minister not see that it can be an advantage if we adopt this, that we end up in a situation where people who may have been convicted of having committed one of the worst crimes at all are not given the opportunity in any way to have free passage in another country, but have to be here where the authorities can keep an eye on the fact that they are not committing anything new? And if they do, they will, of course, be held to account.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133035	Well, I'd like to be honest and say that I've really been trying to see the arguments that I could think this was just really good. I just find it hard to see that not having a passport can be linked to this crime. In other words, both the questioner and I know that we have a huge challenge that is constantly being worked on with people constantly finding new ways of committing the monstrous abuse of children. Danes can also sit at home in Denmark, who order abuse over the network of children abroad. This isn't gonna help. I just don't think this is gonna help. For me, it's more about what we do to prevent sex offenders from continuing. And I don't think taking the passport from them is a treatment. Then they can continue their assault. And that's more what I'm worried about. I understand the questioner's thought with that, but I just don't think it's the medicine that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133134	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133135	I think we have to do a lot of different things to make it work. But this is certainly an attempt to close the hole. So now I want to ask the government and the minister something else. And that is: does the government come up with more concrete proposals on how to continually improve this area? We have decided something. But I'd like to know what else the government has in the bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133155	Yes, we have just completed a number of things. And it is not the case that when we have carried out a number of things, we hurry to say: well then we must find something more in the bag. We have carried out a number of things. But what we have agreed together is that, in the new agreement with the Department of Criminal Welfare, we must, among other things, do something about it. Look at this area. And I look forward to it being done together. Because I fully agree that we must do something. I just find it so hard to see that taking the pass from people makes them stop doing sex crimes. Because I just don't think it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133221	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Morten Bødskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133237	Thank you. The Minister of Justice has well explained the content of the proposal. There is no doubt that when it comes to sexual abuse of children, we have, as the authors of the motion for a resolution have rightly said here during the questions, some of the most disgusting form of crime to do. There can be no two opinions on that. Children who are subjected to sexual abuse are branded for life. That is why, of course, we must also do what we can to prevent this from happening, and we must constantly be aware of how we can strengthen our efforts to ensure that adults with these paedophile tendencies are captured, sentenced and sent to prison, but also sent to treatment. What is at the heart of the proposal is, as I said, the desire to deprive convicted paedophiles of their passports, and that the paedophile should then have his passport back only when he is no longer in danger of committing sexual abuse. I would say that we fully share the intentions of the proposal, namely that we must do what we can to put an end to paedophiles and their abuse of children. We have done so both when we were in government ourselves and when we have supported a lot of other initiatives in this Chamber to step up our efforts against the acts of paedophiles. This is what we do in our EU cooperation through the contact we still have with Europol. We did so in the then SRSF government, that is, under our government regime, as it is called, when we made very close cooperation between the EU and the United States during the Danish EU Presidency, which has certainly helped to provide the Danish authorities with good and new tools and, above all, new opportunities for cooperation in the fight against paedophiles and their terrible abuses. For there is no doubt that one of the major challenges facing us here is the spread of the Internet, namely that new opportunities and new ways have been created here in secret to buy themselves for child pornography. Nor is there any doubt that one of the challenges we face is the so-called Darknet, that is, everything that is going on under the surface of the Internet and that is encrypted, and that is what we have to admit in far too many contexts to give paedophiles and other criminals a head start to the authorities, precisely because they behind codes and encryptions can hide their vile acts. That's why we called the Minister of Justice in consultation last week. It was precisely to ask the Minister for Justice what the Minister for Justice intended to do about exactly this problem, namely that we have far too many people who, on the dark net, if you will, below the surface, can commit serious crime. We look forward to continued cooperation with the government on this. Does that mean we're done? No, it doesn't. We must continue to focus on this. Does this mean that if we take the passport from convicted paedophiles, as is proposed here, then there will be better opportunities to snatch the deeds of paedophiles with the development that is there? We do not quite believe that to say it quite frankly. We believe that the targeted action that needs to be taken must take place through the police and the authorities in general, and not least through very, very close international cooperation. Because, just as this crime is crossing borders, technological possibilities are also crossing borders. That is why there is no doubt that it would be a serious situation if we said no to Europol and that we could thus risk being stabbed in this work. We must also have a discussion on this. Our position is that, of course, we respect the "no' and, although the Danish police work closely, we must continue to ensure that the Danish police can continue to work closely with not only the Member States of Europol, but also internationally. For this type of crime, the best proof is that, unfortunately, crime knows no boundaries. In those words, the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133649	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, there are no brief comments. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522133707	Thank you. First of all, I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. Small parties sometimes have enough to participate in here at Christiansborg, it is at least difficult to manage everything. On this point, we are discussing today whether paedophiles should be deprived of the passport, and let me say at the outset that there is no doubt as to what the intentions behind the proposal today are on the part of the proposers. As far as possible, it is to inhibit the activity and abuse of children by paedophiles. The Left fully supports these intentions. At the same time, the Left hopes and looks forward to a revision of the rules of the Code of Conduct on Agents' Activities. It is deeply, deeply worrying to see how not only paedophilia, but also other forms of crime thrive on the Internet, on closed pages, without the police getting in and interfering with an effective investigation of the matter. We hope so will be taken care of. But back to the pedophiles. The proposal here will mean that a paedophile cannot travel to Germany or any other country in the world. I have to say straight away that it is rather far-reaching and, unfortunately, from the Left side, it is also a mix of penalties and other sanctions, in this case geography. We fully agree that paedophilia must be punished and severely punished. We ourselves have also been instrumental in increasing compensation for the torture of the victims and in removing the limitation period. We look very seriously at the matter, but from there and then to mix it with geography and where we must be allowed to go, we do not see any possibility. There is no doubt that part of the background to the proposal is sex tourism to Thailand and the like. I just have to say that I do not think a prison stay in Thailand is more attractive than a prison stay in Denmark, and I know that this kind of thing is also being investigated and punished in Thailand as well. So it's true at home, too. I have to point out that, ten years ago, we made a change in the rules of section 7 of the Criminal Code, so that crimes of this nature can also be punishable in Denmark by other crimes committed abroad when committed by a person residing in Denmark. So there is the possibility of coming after him or her according to applicable criminal law. However, it is, of course, largely a matter of international cooperation whether this can be clarified, and so I fully agree with the comments made by the Social Democrat rapporteur on this, including the regrettable fact that we do not have full membership of the European Union. As I said, we give full support to the intentions behind the Danish People's Party's proposal, but at the same time I must say that mixing geography and, I am just saying, paedophilia together is not the right cocktail. This is a problem that needs to be addressed both through police and judicial services and through treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134023	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134027	Happily, I made this facility work again. The Socialist rapporteur failed to do so, but it would be a good thing if Mr Tugendhat were to do so. Preben Bang Henriksen agrees with the Socialist rapporteur, because then we can use some of the same questions. I would like to ask you about this with geography, because is it really true that during this parliamentary term the Left has not said in the past: we can tie geography together with committing a crime? Then you'd be able to blend geography into it and tie it together. For my memory tells me that there are at least two times when the government has also made legislative proposals that have involved, that one has physically not had to stay in a particular place, both internationally but also in Denmark. Why is that? I'd like to ask Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134112-2	It's a little hard to answer, I must honestly admit. As far as I understood the question, it was that in the second context the government has implemented legislation in which geography and criminal law were mixed together. Surely I cannot rule that out, and then there has probably been a good reason for it. Today we are concentrating on the issue of paedophilia, and I have to say that paedophilia and geography do not seem to us to be one another in this context. In addition, as I said before, the person who commits paedophilia can be expected to be prosecuted in Denmark and punished in Denmark, regardless of where the crime is committed in the world and whether or not it is punishable at the scene of the crime. So I really think that the rules we have are quite well applicable here, and I do not think it helps very much to deprive them of the passport. I would also like to say that it is a punishment that is disproportionate, so why should a paedophile, apart from having spent a certain number of years in prison, not have the opportunity to travel to Hamburg? I really can't see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134222	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134225	I mean, we've done it in the case of foreign fighters, where you get the passport involved. I also think that some people will argue that if you are told as a gang criminal that you are not allowed to stay for 10 years in a particular Danish municipality, it is also something where you use geography to a large extent to keep them away. But let's leave it at that. We can always discuss it. I'd like to ask Mr. President. - The Preben Henriksen is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen that Danish police are worse off when it comes to paedophilia cases, after the vote on Europol than we were before the vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134309	At any rate, I know that, in terms of investigations, everything else is even worse when you do not have direct access to Europol's databases and you first have to deal with different liaison officers and the like. This applies not only to paedophilia cases that are being investigated, but also to all sorts of other cases. People who are apprehended either at border checks or on the streets or the like, where you need immediate information about their past practices and barn in the criminal field. It certainly does not go faster outside Europol than it would have done within it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134345	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The next is Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134354	Thank you. There is no doubt that it is terrible when a child is subjected to an attack, and that is, wherever in the world it is. I note that with this proposal the Danish People's Party wants to help children abroad. I think it would be nice if the Danish People's Party were to transfer to many other proposals in this Chamber. Having said that, unfortunately, I do not believe that child abuse will stop if the passport is taken from the already convicted paedophile. Whether or not the paedophile has a passport is simply not what will make the difference, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned in his speech. This motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is precisely about paedophiles who have already been convicted, that is paedophiles who have been convicted, and here there will often be a treatment in the judgment, where the convicted person will then be helped to curb his inclinations. That is why I cannot really understand how this proposal would help. In addition, I also think it is important to stick to the principle that when you have endured your punishment, you have civil rights like everyone else, and part of it is that you have your passport. So I believe, as I said, that child abuse is one of the most terrible things, but I do not see how this proposal is going to help anything, so we in the Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134532	Thank you. We move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134543	Thank you very much. Do you have to strip the pedophiles of their passports? This is the question raised by the Danish People's Party in this motion for a resolution. In the Liberal Alliance we have the approach to the subject that you must be punished if you commit sexual abuse against children. I think everyone thinks that no matter where the abuse has taken place. In this context, we welcome the fact that it is now possible to prosecute Danes who are sexually exploiting children abroad, whether or not it is punishable in that country. Sexual abuse of children is terrible and can put deep marks in the children's future lives, no matter where they may have been abused. In the Liberal Alliance, we are pleased that the government has already taken several important steps in securing the rights of children who have been subjected to sexual abuse. The government has among other things: helped to introduce a lower limit for tort allowance of DKK 150,000. in serious cases of sexual abuse of children. We have removed limitation periods for the perpetrator's liability in cases of child abuse and removed limitation periods for claims for damages against public authorities which have failed in cases where children have been subjected to sexual abuse. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not think it is a question of geography. I believe that paedophile tendencies are hardly determined by which side of a border you are staying on, and on that basis we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134723	Thank you and we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522134746	Thank you. The purpose of this proposal by the Danish People's Party is to remove the passport from persons convicted of sexual abuse against children until a doctor considers that they are no longer deemed to commit any new abuse. The removal of the passport must prevent the convicted paedophile from travelling to other countries where it is possible to attack children. Here the DF has a special focus on South-East Asian countries, where there is so-called child sex tourism. That means that for me the purpose is noble. It is clear that we must do everything we can to avoid the kind of travel where the purpose is to go on holiday in quotation marks and abuse children. Having said that, I do not think it is the solution to deprive convicted paedophiles of the passport. Technological developments already allow the paedophile to sit at home at his computer and participate in child abuse, among other things. Southeast Asia through this so-called Darkweb. In recent years, however, we have been able to identify how backers at home and abroad organise attacks on minors over the Internet. What I would rather be aiming for is a hard-on on prevention and treatment in relation to the sentence given to paedophilia, and, of course, also if you have not committed anything yet, but have their inclinations. In addition, I also think it is quite clear that the authorities must step up cross-border action precisely in the light of the technological developments that have taken place in this area of crime. Then there is also a very interesting COSA model, and it stands for Circles of Support and Accountability, which helps convicted sex offenders return to a normal life. The network provides support for the sex offender and works to integrate them into the local community. It is absolutely essential that, if we are to help possible future victims, we need to help those who turn for treatment. The newspaper Politiken has calculated that two out of three, who seek help against paedophilia, withdraws, thus avoiding seeking help anyway. This is partly because they fear for the consequences it will have if it is recorded that they have these sexual thoughts about children. Therefore, it might be interesting to continue to work on the need to be able to get into treatment without having to have a reference. That means they don't have to go around their own doctor. Finally, in reply to a section 20 question, the Minister of Justice indicated that the schemes which, inter alia: In Australia, therefore, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party is based on the fact that Australia now forbids people to travel by taking the passport away from them and looking at how that system works and the experiences that come out of it. In any case, I think we should wait for that too. In those words, the alternative cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522135122	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522135128	Thank you for a sympathetic suggestion. I understand what the purpose is: it is, as the authors of the motion have also written in the comments, that people who have committed paedophilia and endured their punishment should not just go elsewhere and commit deed again, and especially not to places where child pornography or paedophilia is almost an industry and a mecca for paedophiles. I can understand that. However, when we are against the proposal, it is because it is a completely new approach to our area of law if we are to start to have additional penalties, that is to say, after punishment, a number of conditions must be attached to it so that we can be allowed to get back into freedom at all. The same principle could then also apply to other types of crime, that is to say, one could even prohibit people from moving outside their homes, because then there is also less chance of them repeating crime, whether it is drug trafficking or whether it is violence, vandalism etc. etc. So this is just an approach to the area that breaks with the way we conduct legal policy in Denmark. Then I know that there have been some examples in relation to gang crime with zone bans, in relation to foreign fighters, where these instruments have been used, but they have also been very special cases. But when we reject this, it is not because we do not think it is important to pay attention in this area and not because we do not understand the point of the proposal; as I said, we do. For us, it is just important that we stay within the normal approach we have to legal policy, namely that we should be punished and that victims should be compensated. Of course, efforts must also be made to ensure that crime does not happen again, and that involves treatment, prevention, but also, of course, the work of the police, which is about preventing and investigating possible new crime. I must then confess that I do not have enough insight into the area to know if the police have the right instruments. I assume, however, that if you have a person who has been convicted of paedophilia and that person goes to Thailand or where it is, again and again, there is a lamp that must shine with the police and that it then calls for extra attention and investigation. But if you have the right instruments to pass on information to the authorities in the countries where the former convicted person may be increasing, I must admit that I do not have the full overview, but it may well be that there is reason to look at it. For us, it is of course important that this should be done with due regard for legal certainty and so on. etc. We can easily see the problem of seeing cases of paedophiles or people convicted of paedophilia who can continue to go to other countries and commit paedophilia again; we can easily see that. But is it not the police who have a duty to investigate and prevent it from happening instead of giving this additional sentence and introducing a completely new principle into our legal system to prevent it? We are very critical of this. But we can easily see what the problem is, and we will also be very open to discussing new approaches and also whether the police have the right resources and competences to prevent this type of crime from continuing, so that it does not just continue in other countries where you may not have quite the same apparatus as we have in Denmark to prevent it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522135525	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no comments. There is no Socialist People's Party, nor is there anyone from the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522135546	Thank you. When we have tabled the resolution here, it is because we want to come after some of the worst crime that can be committed at all, and that is, of course, to expose children to sexual abuse. We would like us to have a system whereby when a child is subjected to an attack by a sex-cracker, we will slow down the sex-cracker, whether it be in Denmark or on the other side of the globe by effectively removing the passport from the person concerned, making sure that you do not leave, making sure that you do not go anywhere where you have the opportunity to continue what you have set in motion. The model is already used in Australia, where thousands of sex-crackers are denied exit. And why do you do that in Australia? Well, you do that because, on the one hand, you recognise that Australia is a country that is well-functioning and where you are good at keeping track of things and also good at keeping track of your criminals. On the other hand, however, it is also known that there are other countries where the authorities do not function properly and where it is also easy or at least easier to get away with sexual abuse than it would be in Australia. And there you have a desire not to export these sexual assaults to countries that are less able to deal with it than you can. I think that is a very sympathetic thought, that is to say, to keep these people on a short leash. A great deal of action has already been mentioned in today's debate. Much of this has been started with the present government or the former Left Government, where I must acknowledge that many parties, apart from the party I myself represent, have done a great deal to ensure that action is taken against sexual abuse and also sexual abuse of children. This is an area that is constantly being dealt with, and it is, of course, pleasing. But I also think it has to be said that this is not an area where we are running it in the end and saying that we have now reached a stage where we cannot do more; where we have to sit down and wait five or ten years to take new initiatives. This is an area where we have to keep paying attention. We also need to look at some of the countries we would normally compare ourselves to Australia could be an example and look at some of the things they do to learn from them. Some of what they're doing, I think they're doing a really good job. Then it is mentioned in the debate that the Internet is of course involved, that the Internet means a great deal to how crime develops. And that's right. But I also have to warn against the idea that just because it is a new world we are facing and much is being digitised in the years to come, we cannot solve problems that exist, that is, existing problems, because it must all be about the Internet. Yes, the Internet creates new problems, but the Internet must not prevent us from solving problems that exist in the physical, actual world. And that is a problem if you want to derail the debate in that way. Does it work internationally? Yes, there is. Is it good that people work internationally? Yes, it is. I have the credit of hearing a single member of parliament say that we should not work with other countries on this. But that is the impression that you can get when you hear some rapporteurs on the platform, that there are some inside this house who want Denmark not to cooperate with other countries. I think that's quite a strawman. We hear it not only in some of these debates in the legal field; I think we hear it in a great many areas. It sounds like someone should have said that Denmark should not cooperate. Well then, Denmark must cooperate with all the countries that are facing the same problems as we are doing to make sure that we can try to come after some of the people who are committing these violations. Of course Denmark must. And I don't hear anyone think otherwise. In my party we think that when you come to Denmark as a foreigner and commit crime, you should of course be sent home to the country you come from. They are very quick to want to enforce the rules against others. But Danish citizens who travel around the world must also be a Danish responsibility as a starting point. It must be our job to ensure that we do not spread crime to other countries. It must be our job to ensure that Danish citizens are, of course, caught up in the neck if they travel the world to commit sexual abuse. That is why I think this is a very responsible proposal: a proposal to ensure that countries which do not function as well and are as privileged as we are should not, of course, be subjected to the export of sexual abuse against children. And that is the main point of the proposal. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Minister for the answers, including a special thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock, who is, of course, putting a new proposal on the table in relation to the forms of treatment. That's one of the things I'm looking forward to talking to you about in the CDC. It's actually one of the things we've been looking forward to, not only how we're going to deal with this topic, but also how we're going to make sure that we use medical castration in a lot more cases, so we make sure these people don't commit any more abuse. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140110	Thank you. Mrs Christina Egelund has a brief comment to make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140113	Thank you. In fact, I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this issue, in other words, how we combat sexual abuse in an international context. I was very pleased with the whole speech, but in particular the other half of the rapporteur's speech, which was about the fact that this is something that we need to work together on internationally and that there are actually no two views on the importance of this. In relation to this, I would like to ask the rapporteur's position on Europol and Denmark's association with Europol. This is something we have been discussing for a long time, even in relation to the referendum that we had. I know that the rapporteur has taken a good look at the subject and that this is something very important to the rapporteur, so my question is actually: what position does the Danish People's Party think Denmark should have in relation to Europol, and what exactly is the rapporteur's impression of the contribution that Europol makes to the Danish police and the other way around, in relation to the fight against paedophilia?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140214	Thank you to the questioner for that question. Let me answer the last part of the question. It is not my impression that there has been any significant change. It's going well. That is what I sense at the Minister for Justice; that is what I sense at the Danish police; that is what I sense all around. Things are under control and it works very well. Nor did Denmark become the paradise of the paedophiles, the day the Danes said no to more EU. That's nice. Denmark did not become such a black spot on the world map where everyone suddenly wanted to go. That's great. It has to be said that there are some jalots too busy trying to scare the Danes into thinking something specific in relation to the European Union. Fortunately, it didn't work, and it probably even works. That's nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140259	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140316	The debate is open. Here you go, the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140340	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the alternative to the motion for a resolution. I sincerely welcome the attention you devote to our drinking water, and I can assure you that clean drinking water is also something very close to my heart. The alternative proposal concerns the introduction of the 'polluter pays' principle, and that sounds quite reasonable, but the proposal aims to make everyone involved in pesticides financially responsible for covering the costs of water supplies in connection with pesticide pollution. The proposal will therefore cover agriculture, importers and producers of pesticides, whether they act responsibly or irresponsiblely. The proposed liability regime covers the costs associated with pesticide contamination. There will typically be costs to renovate or remove pesticide-contaminated boreholes, to establish new boreholes or alternatively to clean the drinking water. The drinking water supply in Denmark is based on groundwater that is so clean that it alone must have a so-called simple water treatment. This means that the water alone is oxygenated and filtered and not chemically cleaned, as we see in many other countries. This makes the Danish drinking water supply unique and the Danish drinking water uniquely tasty. At intervals, however, pesticides and pesticide degradation products are found in groundwater both below and above the drinking water limit. Last summer, for example, there was one. made widespread findings of desphenyl chlorideazone. The substances found in too high concentrations are mostly substances which are, fortunately, currently banned. So these are the sins of the past that we are facing today. This is also the case with desphenyl chlorideazone, which has been banned in Denmark for many years. Under the current rules, the costs of water supply to protect drinking water against pollution are paid, for example: with pesticides from the water supply itself. This means that the costs are paid by us as water consumers over the price of water and, in the opinion of the proposers, this is contrary to the polluter-pays principle. We in Denmark have a restrictive authorisation system for pesticides to ensure that the substances used do not pollute groundwater. The approval system has become more delicate and we have continually added restrictions on the authorised substances. When it comes to pollution caused by the use of illegal substances, the general principles of compensation apply, which means that the polluter pays. When it comes to pollution caused by substances that have been legal at the time of delivery, the community pays in the form of water consumers. I have no reason to believe that the previous use of pesticides, from which we can see traces today, has been contrary to the rules at that time. In addition, it can, unfortunately, often be difficult to document the origin of an old pollution of groundwater. If only you could, it was easy to know where to send the bill. The approval system is therefore in conjunction with more specific safeguard measures, such as: BNBOs are the way in which society protects itself against groundwater pollution. That is the framework within which agriculture must accept to cultivate the land. That is why the government's position is that further efforts, which are linked to remedying the consequences of possible contamination of drinking water, should and should continue to be carried out in the way we are doing it now, in other words by us water consumers, who jointly benefit from the efforts made. Against this background, the government cannot support resolution B 116 on the polluter pays principle for the cost of pesticide contamination of drinking water. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140749	There are a few comments. Here you go, sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140753	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for clarifying very clearly what mechanisms we are dealing with here. After all, the minister says in the end that what you might call source tracking is difficult. So it may be difficult to know where it comes from when a specific drinking water well has been contaminated with spray poisons, pesticides from one farmer or another farmer or from a garden nearby. It can be, of course, even if it is a very small amount of consumption there. But that is why we are proposing a collective scheme with the inspiration of previous schemes that have been in other areas. I understand that the Minister is a little hesitant about such a scheme, perhaps because it would burden a profession. But then I'm gonna ask the minister if there's another offer. Does the Minister have any idea where to apply for this funding, so that we can get a little closer to the cause of the injury? Because that is what we want to do with this proposal, namely to say that some people have destroyed our drinking water, and we know who it is, which industry it is, because it is the only one using pesticides. Then let them pay. Because as it is now, I'm the one who pays, and I haven't ruined anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522140915	Thank you for the question. In fact, it is based on the sense of justice that we all feel has been trampled underfoot somewhere. 'Cause we're asking, why do I have to pay for an injury I didn't do? Why can't we find out who caused the injury and let him pay for it? And I kind of share the frustration. But I must also say that for the farmer who is acting wisely, legally, fairly and properly on his land, as we can reasonably expect from him, the frustration is no less than it will be with Mr Tugendhat. Christian Poll and me as water consumers. Our frustration at having to pay for a damage we have not caused is probably not greater than the farmer's frustration over the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141009	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141011	Well, that's good to hear. And I totally agree. That is why we are proposing a collective arrangement in which we simply say that we cannot appoint the individual farmer and the individual farmer must not be held directly responsible but that we can make an industry scheme, just as we did with oil pollution and what is called the oil industry's environmental pool. There it was said that there are some petrol stations where there are oil pollution, but in order for each tanker manager not to bear the cost, a collective arrangement is made whereby the industry collects into a large box, and then it is the big box that pays. So it is a box that is a little closer to the problem makers than it is today, where it is the consumers who have to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141059	Well, I guess I can understand the point of Mr. Knox. Christian Poll, and also the point about saying that, knowing that it comes from a given industry, it should not be the given industry that paid for it, just as we were discussing just now, from the point of view of the consumer that it is not our fault. But it is also not the fault of the skilled, good, decent, real bonus pater farmer. And that's why I don't think it's fair to put that cost in there. There I think we all benefit from the good Danish drinking water, and that is why it is something we carry together when we cannot identify the sinner, which I really would hope you could in most cases. Unfortunately, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141146	Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141148	Thank you. I also noted that we have a minister who said that clean drinking water is very dear to the Minister. That is a good thing, because it is also very important to us in the Social Democratic Party. In the first place, I would like the Minister to confirm that it is not only the sins of the past that we find in our groundwater. It is true that much of what we find may be substances that are currently banned, but there is also something that is degradation products from approved products. An example could be this 1,2,4-triazole, which is an approved product that we find in our groundwater. That is why we have a job to do better than we are doing today. We must take better care of our groundwater than we do today if it is up to us in the Social Democratic Party. Therefore, I would just like to ask the Minister first to confirm that it is not just the sins of the past and then to comment on whether the Minister, together with us, is interested in us taking new steps in order to actually secure our drinking water.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141244	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141246	It is quite correct, as the questioner also says, that unfortunately these are not only the sins of the past. But fortunately we can see a difference in the different layers of groundwater, and the places where things are bad we can see that things are better, the further up in the different layers of groundwater we come. That promises positive for the future, you might say. However, with regard to measures to protect our drinking water, in relation to measures to ensure that we can continue to turn on the tap and take a sip of water without much concern, I am very listening to all the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141325	Thank you. Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Yeah, you just have to remember to get in. Lea Wermelin Yes, I forgot to press, sorry). Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141332	I would like to follow up on that, because it is really an outstretched hand when you say: okay, make your good suggestions. You don't have to say that twice to us. We have among other things. We have taken some of the proposals that we have also tried in the past from, among other things, climate and environmental issues. in our pesticide negotiations, with, and where we have proposed, for example, that we could completely exempt from both manure and spraying the drilling-related protection areas, as the Minister also mentioned in his speech. That would, of course, provide better protection for the groundwater we have today, and it is also one of the things the experts are suggesting that none of these substances were seen in our groundwater. So is this something the Minister wants to bring back to the workshop?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141413	At any rate, I can say that the climate and environmental issue that the Social Democratic Party has recently sent out and published here is on my bookcase in a signed copy of Mr. Simon Kollerup, and I have read that with great interest. There are many of the elements on which I think we can agree. I understand that we sometimes need to disagree in here, but there are a great many of the proposals in the Social Democrats' paper that I can see myself in. So I accept it with open arms and then let us look at the concrete elements at a negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141454	Thank you. Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141457	Thank you. I do not want to hold back from making proposals when the Minister is asking for them. The unit list could well imagine that we simply banned the use of spray poisons. Is this something that the Minister could also take into account in his observations?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141516	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141519	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141521	In this context, a less unreasonable approach would perhaps be to collect among those who are still using spray poisons, and that is what this proposal is all about, and it is not about bothering the good bonus pater farmer. So could the Minister not consider, once again, taking into account this proposal put forward by the Alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141553	I would like to apologize for the fact that the questioner just had time to sit down, but then had to fly up again as a troll by a box. When I answer as precisely as I do, it is just to underline this that there has to be a balance in things. We must ensure that we can grow both organic and conventional farming in Denmark, and we must ensure that those farmers who, fortunately, in many ways do so, and those farmers who, fortunately, are keeping their hands on our entire welfare community by doing just that, have proper conditions to work under. There I think that the way we have worked together today is in line with my exchange of views with Mr Beazley. Christian Poll before is the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141637	Thank you. Then there is no more for the Minister in this round. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that is first Mrs Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522141703	Thank you. The proposal here concerns, as we have already mentioned, the alternative proposal to introduce a new principle whereby agriculture should cover the costs of new or modified water wells for drinking water, in case they are contaminated with pesticides or degradation products. The proposal actually comes at a time when we can see that many places are also found pesticides above the limit value in our drinking water wells, and in many places drinking water wells must also be closed. Now the Minister mentioned desphenyl chlorideazone on the platform, and I have actually printed out that card which shows that it is far too many places in Denmark that you find this substance where the limit value has been exceeded up to five times, and that is a huge problem. It is not only the sins of the past that we have just mentioned in the debate, it is also some of the degradation products that have been approved, which we find in our groundwater. I think most of us in here share the ambition that we should also continue to open the tap at home and take a glass of water without it having to be cleaned. It is certainly quite unique that we can do so when we see what it is like in other countries. We have some of the world's best and cleanest drinking water, and we must be careful about that. This is an important value for us in the Social Democratic Party, and that is why it is one of the things we have brought with us when we have been sitting at the negotiating table with this government. I must also say that, although we have come through with several good initiatives in the pesticide strategy that is currently in force, it is no secret that we had proposals on the table that go further than we could get through, and some of these things have been included in the overall climate and environmental issue that we have recently brought forward here. One of the proposals that I would just like to highlight here in the platform and, as the Minister said, we may be able to talk about, is that we want to ban fertilising and spraying in the drilling-related protection areas. The reason I am taking this is because we already have a bit of a model on how to get agriculture, which helps to pollute our drinking water, to help pay for better care for our drinking water. And it is by using this pesticide tax, which we have already decided, which is part of the pesticide strategy that we will soon have to evaluate, and where there will of course be a revenue that we will have to agree on how we use. Some of this revenue could be used to exempt these areas from the fact that you can actually spray there because we know that it is some of the most vulnerable areas that we have also proposed to strengthen our groundwater monitoring, because we have found time and again that there are very many substances that we may not test for, but which we can find, and therefore we need to have tested more, and we have also proposed more urban forest. So we have a number of initiatives which we really want to discuss with the alternative and which we may also be able to write a joint report on in relation to the proposal that is on the table here, which is a model that we may not quite see in the same way. However, we welcome the discussion and think it is important that we take new steps to protect our drinking water.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142036	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142048	Thank you, and thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, for also acknowledging that we have, I think the rapporteur put it as one of the world's best and cleanest drinking water, and we must, of course, safeguard that. In fact, I share the view of the Social Democrat rapporteur that we need to monitor more drugs, because it has just been shown in the past that something may have gone a little below radar. That is, of course, very positive, so many thanks for that statement. Perhaps the Social Democrat rapporteur knows and can inform me how many drinking water wells have been closed in Denmark for the last five years because of pesticide residues.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142135	Now I am neither the author of the resolution we are debating today nor the expert, so I would like to acknowledge that the Liberal Alliance also believes that we can actually take further steps in this area. Because we sit in a conciliation group together and also have the opportunity to negotiate on this, so I think that is one of the things we should have looked at as soon as possible. But I simply cannot answer exactly how it shuts down, and there may also be several factors that play together when it is that waterworks decide to close their boreholes. But all we know is that it is a problem to find these substances above the limit values. Recently, we have even started to talk about whether we should perhaps start cleaning drinking water, and that is one of the things we see as a very big alarm bell in our party, and we do not want us to go down that road.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142225	Thank you for that, and there will be no further brief comments. And then we move on to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142233	Thank you. I would also like to sign the motion for a resolution. I don't think anyone in here would want to stand here and say that you don't give a shit about our drinking water. That is not the case. That is not the case. A lot has been said. When we in the Danish People's Party have discussed drinking water, it is important that we have the opportunity to go as users, as citizens of the country and open up to the tap and drink water that is clean, water that is healthy and water that we can just take without thinking about it. I would actually like to take this opportunity to say that this is very, very important to us. That is also why I do not really think we should talk away from each other, even if we in the Danish People's Party do not want to support the resolution immediately. It has something to do with compensation etc. But I would like to say that I think it would be a pity if we talked away from each other here in the Folketing, because I immediately believe that we are all interested in doing this in the best way possible. It is important that we can drink our water, and I would also like to say that I do not think the debate on drinking water is so black and white or so straightforward, because if it had been, we might have done some things many years ago. It is true that part of what we find ■ much of what we find is the sins of the past, but it is also new means that are found; so it is. And that is also perfectly logical, I think we should of course do something about it. What we shall then do about it, I do not know immediately what to be. I think this is a difficult discussion. We in the Danish People's Party have, most recently, helped to support the idea that people, for example, should be able to take part in the work of the Danish People's Party. In these drilling areas, the ability to clean up the tools and to fill up is removed, and I think that is a clear improvement. Whether to ban it completely in such areas, I have certainly and we in the Danish People's Party opposed it, and it has something to do with the fact that suddenly it becomes the case that there are entire municipalities that are virtually unable to have farming at all, and I think that is perhaps a drastic measure. But that is clearly something we should be discussing; that is clearly something we need to be aware of. After all, I think that one of the things that we have done well in relation to the agricultural package is that we are making targeted regulation. And I actually think that is something that can improve quality even if we have not seen the effect of it yet. But when we go in and make a map of now 3,000 areas, where we have different ways of doing things, precisely for the sake of groundwater, precisely for the sake of discharge, I actually think it is an improvement. That is why I also believe that the environment as far as drinking water is concerned and agriculture can go hand in hand. I would also like to strike a blow that we should not make citizens afraid to open up to the faucet. When I say that, it is because there are a lot of Danes who buy bottled water not nearly as many as abroad, fortunately, but it has become a phenomenon that you buy your bottled water. And that is actually a bit of a sin, because it is also a burden on the environment. We need the water we have in the tap, and it must be possible to drink from it. With that I would say that I think the intentions are right. I think we should look at drinking water. However, in the Danish People's Party we cannot support saying that it is someone specific or agriculture and those who import, for example. pesticides that will help create a pool that will then have to deal with this problem. It must be the responsibility of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142630	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142634	Thank you. I would not have expected the rapporteur to be cheerful about my proposal either, but then I would like to hear from the rapporteur on the proposal put forward by the Social Democrat rapporteur and also mentioned by the rapporteur himself, namely on these areas of drilling protection. Right now there is an agreement where it is a kind of voluntary effort. In the light of the latest knowledge, where more spray poisons have been found in several boreholes, could the rapporteur consider that we are looking at it with the drilling protection areas again and maybe making it a more solid instrument?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142715	Yeah, I think so. Well, I always think you should think about whether you can do some things better and then look at it. After all, it is not a very long time since we sat and looked at the drilling areas, where we clearly went in and said that there were some things that were quite obvious, namely that there were some point pollutions. It was precisely in connection with cleaning machinery and filling etc. where there is a risk of it. But I would also like to say that I sometimes think it may be a little problematic if there is an entire municipality going out because they have a lot of groundwater and saying that you do not want agriculture at all or that agriculture should not use anything at all, because then you are going to close down a profession in that municipality, and I think that may be problematic. But I will not deny that there can be things we can do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142759	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142802	I understand that we can look at that again. The problem with having it as such is that we do not really know where the effort is being made and we need the effort to be made where it bats, where it makes a difference. We can get an effective response if we make it a fixed instrument, that is to say that we must not spray and fertilise at all in borehole protection areas. Would it not be very useful to have such a firm instrument so that we can ensure that we actually protect our drinking water so that we can continue to drink what we have always done?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142841	Well, at first sight it's tempting just to say yes, but I don't really think so. And I do not think so because there can be places where you spray and where the spray runs down to some water that is then quite another place. And who, then, must not, and how and how? That is why it is rather more complex than just saying: 'Well, where we draw up drinking water, we must not spray'. Because that's not necessarily where the poison comes from. If it were that easy, we'd have done something a long time ago. I do not think we should talk the Danish drinking water down. It is good that we open the cock; it is good that we drink it; and it must remain so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142919	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin who has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522142922	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge that the rapporteur says: let us try again to look at these drilling-related protection areas. After all, we have made one step in which we also wrote that there should be an action plan. And we would really like to use the contract circle in some way to follow up and say: okay, is there a chance to go one step further along that path? One of the things I would like to ask the rapporteur is the pesticide tax that we will soon be looking at, but which lies in the agreement as it is today. It is, of course, a source of income which could also help to finance some of the measures that we would like to see. It could be in the drilling-related protection areas, but it could also be other things that the rapporteur's party considers important in relation to groundwater. Is it a source of funding that you will help to look at and also use in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143014	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143015	So we in the Danish People's Party have not taken a position on this at this stage, and that is why I think it would be such a little bit to take grief or delight in advance if I spoke about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143030	Now I forgot to push in before, but this time I hadn't actually pressed. So I just stick to it and try to remember how to do it after being on maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143040	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143044	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next in the series of speeches is Mr. Erling Bonnesen as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143058	Thank you. Every day we all brave fresh drinking water directly from the tap. We can be proud of that and, of course, we must stick to it, and I think everyone will do the same. For us in the Left too, it is quite natural, as I think it is for all politicians, to drink the water directly from the tap, and I am also very pleased that our environmental and health authorities here in Denmark have said time and again that we can all calmly tap the water directly from the tap. This does not mean that we should not be paying constant attention to this, so that we can do the best we can with the inclusion of new professional knowledge. That is why we also have in Denmark one of the world's most restrictive authorisation systems for pesticides, and we are conducting extensive groundwater monitoring, which has been further expanded in recent years. We in the Left also take Denmark's drinking water resources very seriously, as I am sure all politicians do. The restrictive authorisation system for pesticides that we have in Denmark must ensure that the substances used do not pollute groundwater and drinking water, and the authorisation system has also become more fine-meshed, and restrictions on authorised substances have been continually added. The approval system is accompanied by more specific safeguard measures such as: the so-called BNBO, i.e. drilling-related protection areas, the way to protect groundwater and drinking water from pollution. In the Left, we do not think that we should punish present-day farmers for the sins of the past, one might say. The residues and now there is mention of desphenyl chlorideazone, such as: is found in Danish water drills... is such a typical relic from the past. The question might be asked: should we punish today's farmers for using a spray which at that time was, moreover, legal? We in the Left do not think we should do that. So, against this background, we fully agree that we must continue to do everything we can to take good care of groundwater and drinking water, as we are doing now, and a large number of tightenings have been made in recent years at the latest in connection with the last agreement we have made in the field of pesticide strategy. On this basis, we reject the motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143323	There is a question from Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143328	Thank you. This proposal is not so much about the actual contamination of drinking water with spray poisons, but more about how we make sure that we deal with it more • what can we say fairly when investing in new drillings, because a drilling is closed due to pollution by spray poison. And I notice that the rapporteur says that we should not punish farmers for something they have been allowed to do. But what we are doing now is punishing consumers of drinking water for something that others have done in the past and that has led to the destruction of drinking water drilling. Would it not be more sensible to look at whether we should all be punished or whether we could get a little closer? And this is where I have proposed that we make a collective arrangement, so that those who have had to do with pesticides and use pesticides today are those who collectively cover this cost. In this way it will be the polluter who pays more. Isn't that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143435	I am very pleased that the rapporteur does not say that I have just said that I am very pleased that our environmental and health authorities say that in general we have good drinking water in Denmark. I think there is a need to make that very clear, and I am glad that the questioner does not address that question. I take this as an acknowledgement that the alternative also recognises that we generally have good water in Denmark and that we can safely drink drinking water. I think that more needs to be done to inform consumers about this so that we can restore security. As far as the second issue of a new fee is concerned, we just do not think that new charges should be imposed in general. You could also use a traffic image on Mr. Christian Poll's proposal would, of course, be equivalent to imposing an extra tax on all drivers on the roads, because some people exceeded today's speed limits before the speed limits were introduced. It doesn't make sense, and it doesn't make sense in this area either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143531	In general, we can drink our drinking water in Denmark and be comfortable with it. And that is what I want us to continue to be able to do. And then we will have to put the cost of pollution on the shoulders of those who have helped to make this pollution. And that is what I am asking, and as I ask the rapporteur: is it not reasonable that, instead of all of us as consumers of drinking water, we should all pay, we should leave the group of people who have polluted drinking water collectively to pay for it? Isn't that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143605	As I have said before: if you could directly find the polluter today, i.e. if someone is making a pollution today, there is something exactly to go on. I am, in fact, pleased that we have already got over this in the debate now, so that it is not possible for the alternative with their proposals either. We should withdraw the proposal, because we have already recognised that we cannot go back in time and find the sinners. I have noticed that the alternative is purely for agriculture, but there are plenty of other situations. Then you had to dig up all sorts of landfills and look for all sorts of other places where substances like these have been used. So I can actually just call on the alternative to withdraw that proposal when you sort of back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143644	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to the next in line, which is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522143654	First of all, I would like to thank the alternative for bringing up our clean drinking water. Because we have clean drinking water, yes, but there is no doubt that our clean drinking water is under threat. Time and again there are highly toxic and less toxic pesticides in our drinking water, and research shows that the limit values for pesticide residues in drinking water wells are too often exceeded. Experts in the Danish waterworks are shouting guard in rifle, and there is of course a reason why they are shouting guard in rifle. We know that residues of spray toxins can cause cancer and diabetes, they can destroy sperm quality, and in foetuses and young children, spray toxins can affect brain development. It is time for us to take serious action to ensure our drinking water for the future. Spray poisons don't belong in our drinking water. We are one of the few countries in the world where water can continue to be consumed, and we must be able to continue to drink it. And it is also beyond any doubt that a massive effort is needed to save pure Danish drinking water from pollution from agriculture, and not just the pollution that has occurred. There are also plenty of other pollutions that threaten, by the way. In Furesø Municipality, where I come from, we have taken over Flying Station Værløse, where there is a lot of pollution, and there is a lot of resources and millions of litres of drinking water are lost because groundwater is pumped up to prevent the known pollution from spreading to the drinking water that we, among other things, have. must drink here in the Danish Parliament, namely the drinking water which the Municipality of Copenhagen among others. provide. But, of course, we must also prevent new pollution. This proposal will help because a number of measures need to be taken to ensure that in the future we can also safely drink the water from the taps here in Denmark. And one of the measures that needs to be taken is that the conventional agricultural industry begins to pay the price it costs when spray poisons or pesticide degradation products are once again found in a drinking water well. And that is why, in the Enhedslisten, we welcome the alternative's proposal to implement the polluter pays principle in relation to all of our drinking water resources. We can warmly support the proposal. But Enhedslisten would also like to take this opportunity to say that this measure cannot, of course, stand alone. I don't think so either, sir. Christian Poll believes, because we should not just send the bill to the right place when the damage has been done. It must be so that it does not happen at all. We do not need spray poisons in our drinking water, and that is why, of course, we also need a great deal of action to prevent spray poisons coming in our drinking water in the future. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that a more holistic approach should be taken to the problem with a number of measures. Ecological cultivation requirements must be introduced for vulnerable water catchment areas. There must be a ban on the use of pesticides on state and municipal land and on public land as a whole. And then we also think that private gardens should be banned from the use of spray poisons and preferably by the end of 2019. These are some of the first decisive steps to protect drinking water in the future. This is a matter of urgency, because there can be a great deal of damage to our drinking water while we postpone measures to ensure our drinking water or await further studies. We must not put our health and nature at risk by closing our eyes to the continued use of pesticides by conventional agriculture in vulnerable drinking water areas. These are pesticides which, moreover, can pose a great risk to our environment and health, and the bill should no longer be sent to consumers. Instead, we need to ensure through a series of measures that the next generations can also enjoy a glass of unclean, clean drinking water directly from the tap. So, as I have said, we can support the proposal from the Alternative, and Enhedslisten is happy to enter into dialogue on the design of a collective trade agreement to cover the costs of waterworks and single-borrowers when it can be seen that water wells have been contaminated by spray poisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144137	There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144142	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten for a fine rapporteur speech. I also believe that the rapporteur was praised for the pure Danish drinking water, which we all drink uncleansed. We can only agree with that. Perhaps the rapporteur, like a former rapporteur, made it one of the world's best drinking water. This is very nice, and it is despite, it has to be said, the sins of past times and despite the use of pesticides and other things in agriculture and elsewhere in the past. They are polluting companies in cities, etc. etc. After all, we drink groundwater more or less uncleaned and untreated in Denmark, but I can still understand from Enhedslisten's rapporteur that now we really need to take action with both this and that, post up and post down, and I will come after you, but why do we really have a lower load today than we had before, and when today we can actually drink clean and more or less unclean drinking water in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144249	Thank you very much for that question. What is exactly the case is that, when we can do it today, it is because there are a lot of drillings that we have had to close. We have also become much better at detecting pollution before it leaks into a drinking water well. I referred, among other things. to Air Station Værløse, where, in fact, by pumping up huge amounts of groundwater, which could have been drinking water, was avoided by known pollution leaking into the drinking water wells. Unfortunately, however, it is a short period of time for you to be able to pump up and make defensive drillings. After all, we still have old pollution, but there are also future pesticide residues coming down through groundwater. So when the quality today is good, it is because we have a lot of costs to maintain that quality. The proposal will actually help to finance that we can continue to do so and perhaps even better that we can stop pollution in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144355	Thank you. I appreciate very much that Enhedslisten is concerned about the costs of individual water consumers. So do we in the Liberal Alliance. Now the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten himself mentions the number of drillings that have been closed due to contamination by pesticide residues, but can the rapporteur perhaps just inform me how many drillings have been closed because of the levels of pesticide residues just over the last five years?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144421	No, I cannot do that on a stand-by basis, because I have not had those figures, but I am sure the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance himself can google that. I'm counting on it, but I'm happy to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144434	The next question is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144436	Thank you. I am glad that Enhedslisten's rapporteur started his speech by stating that I could almost only understand that we generally have very good drinking water in Denmark. I think Enhedslisten should make a little more of this when, by the way, Enhedslisten communicates out his views, because that is not what they usually do. There's other scare pictures and whatever else you can come up with. But I think it is good if Enhedslisten will also help to establish that we generally have good drinking water in Denmark. As we have said before, our environment and health authorities have repeatedly maintained that water can be safely consumed. And from this point of view, it must be a pity for Enhedslisten. I know now that the current rapporteur cannot be blamed for the fact that Enhedslisten is not part of the agreements we have made in the field of pesticide strategy, because that is the way we should be doing exactly what we want to do. So does it not annoy the new rapporteur that the party is not included in the agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144532	I am not going to explain the sins of the past either, but I can say that I am happy to help make the agreements better. I am sure my predecessor would have liked to have helped with that. However, in view of the fact that we have a good drinking water, I do not believe that the Enhedslisten has done anything in the past to talk our drinking water down, on the contrary. We are also of the opinion that we should drink our groundwater, that is to say the water coming out of the taps, rather than buying bottled water, because it is so an environmental sin to start putting water in bottles and driving it around in diesel cars before drinking it, instead of just picking up what can be pumped up and is available from the tap.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144617	Does the Enhedslisten's rapporteur agree that the decisions taken in this area must be based on professionalism and on facts and not on resolving emotional and other views? You look at professionalism, at the facts of it, and then you make the decision based on it. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144639	Now I am new to rural politics, but I have spent many years in local politics. I would say that I believe that our decisions are taken on the basis of the facts, but the facts are so that they do not. Qua my experience I can say that there are plenty of other cases where feelings for agriculture or for others take over over facts. If the rapporteur from the Left refers to whether the facts for drinking water are good at the moment, then that is the fact, but the fact is that drinking water will not be as good in future if we do not do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144727	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522144735	Thank you. The Danish groundwater and thus the Danish drinking water is far better than its reputation and far better than many people on the left would like to make it, and it will be better and better year by year. For the truth is that the Danes' groundwater is excellent and better than it has been for many years. We must safeguard this, but we should also welcome how well things are actually going, rather than creating insecurity about the drinking water supply of the Danes, often on the basis of incorrect information. I know that groundwater monitoring at least shows that there is a decreasing content of pesticides in the upper newly formed groundwater layers. This tells us that the restrictive Danish authorisation system for pesticides works. We have over the years developed a unique and probably the world's best monitoring system, in which we control both the deep groundwater for the pollutants of the past and, at the same time, ensure that we do not create problems in the future. In fact, we are today approving only substances that are not normally used under normal conditions likely to contaminate our groundwater. In Denmark, we have tightened up considerably and we certainly have the most restrictive authorisation system for pesticides in Europe. All substances are thoroughly tested in relation to whether they are washed out to groundwater, both in laboratories and in so-called experimental fields. Thus, the problem substances have been sorted out and significantly regulated. In Denmark, therefore, only half of the funds actually authorised by the European Union can be used. In addition, the approval system was previously not nearly as fine-meshed as it is today, and so it is far along the way substances that are banned today that pose challenges for our drinking water supply, and often the challenges are related to point source pollutions such as landfills, etc., where residues of pesticides with instructions from the authorities have been dug down in earlier times. But how great is this challenge? I'm asking because I don't actually know. There is far too much false information in circulation when it comes to the quality of our drinking water and our groundwater, so let us bring the facts to the attention of the committee on this resolution. I am sure that many, including the rapporteurs here, are in doubt. In fact, we already know that the Social Democrat rapporteur and the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten cannot answer my question about how many drinking water wells have actually been closed in Denmark over the last five years on the basis of pesticide residues. Who knows? Perhaps even the new minister is as unaware of the concrete and correct figures as I and other rapporteurs are. So let us have a fact sheet, perhaps even a little pixibook, which the rapporteurs can have in their pockets when we debate the Danish drinking and basic drinking water in the Assembly Chamber or elsewhere. I know there are about 6,000 drillings for general drinking in Denmark, but what's the figure for these drillings? My own view is that as a society we have moved a great deal in terms of groundwater protection, but unfortunately it takes a great deal of time before groundwater will again be minimally affected by human activity, which is, of course, the main objective of all environmental policy. It is precisely cost-effective to ensure a minimal impact on the environment as a result of human activity. Agriculture has over the years used approved funds and followed instructions, so politicians and authorities certainly have a responsibility when it comes to this. It is not exactly a question of illegal and ruthless behaviour on the part of farmers, so let us find out the extent of the problem before we jump to conclusions. It deserves the environment, it deserves agriculture and it deserves society in general. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145221	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145225	Thank you. The rapporteur asks what figures are really for contaminated drinking water wells, and I agree with the rapporteur that it is difficult to get a precise figure. Now I've been sitting around a little bit in this, and I can see numbers back in time on something with 20 boreholes a year maybe. But there's also a new article, which is why we're focusing especially on it now that it's a whole series of 113 waterworks out of 2,500 water plants that have had problems with this desphenyl chlorideazone. So there is a very large variation in the number of people involved here. But does the rapporteur, all other things being equal, think it is not right that some people have been involved in generating pollution and we can sort out that it is this and that industry that it is the industry that has to pay the bill, rather than all of us, as consumers, having that bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145326	The concrete figures I called for before, both in my questions to the Social Democrats and to the Enhedslisten rapporteurs, and I do not know whether that was it, Mr. Christian Poll tried to answer with the 20 boreholes a year is how many drinking water wells in Denmark have been specifically closed just for the last 5 years on the basis of finding pesticide residues and you could bring other substances for that matter, but now it's just pesticides we're talking about in this context. I think the Minister also mentioned this in his speech on source tracking, that is to say where the specific pollution comes from. One might also very well ask whether not a large part of the pollutions and impacts of our drinking water wells around the country actually originate from point source pollution. Nor do I know that figure, i.e. how many impacts come from point sources and how many come from a possible regular, regular coating. Because I do not think there are very many places where an impact can be detected on the basis of the general use of pesticides in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145446	There I can say that my inspiration for this proposal comes from the Oil Industry Environmental Pool. There was also the idea that it could not be said that the individual tank tenant, who had a gas station, was particularly guilty of the leaking of his tanks down in the ground, but then a collective arrangement was made to say that he should not hang on to it; that is a general problem in the industry. And would it not be reasonable for the industry that uses pesticides and spreads them out in the open country also to take responsibility for itself and say: Should we destroy a drinking water well here and here, of course, is that something we pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145527	I know quite well the source of inspiration for the proposal, i.e. the Oil Industry Environmental Pool, which is trained geologists with 12 years of experience as environmental advisors, and with a lot of pollution cases under the Oil Industry Environmental Pool behind me, I would say that this is a fantastic scheme, but which is really very concrete. It is a question of investigation, possibly even purification, in the event that there is a risk of concrete contamination, and a concrete contamination can be attributed directly to a specific source in the form of an oil tank, etc. etc. So the comparison seems to me very difficult here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145612	The next question is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145614	I really think it was quite promising in the debate before that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said that we might be able to extend the groundwater monitoring that we have, in order to be sure, precisely in relation to some of the substances that have also been approved today, that we will not only discover for many years: hey, ups, they were actually in groundwater, we just did not test for them. This is one of the things that we have seen well can happen, even though we in Denmark have a strict practice. After all, the rapporteur also mentioned his background and something like that, and it is nice to have a green background in LA too, but I would just like to ask here in the end whether the rapporteur will not also recognise that the work there is and the strict practice we have in Denmark also allows us to open the tap and drink the water today, as it is, without it having to be cleaned. Because we have seen before that the rapporteur's party, for example. was not part of the spray strategy that lay. So does the rapporteur agree that if we had not had this strict practice in Denmark, it would not have been certain that we would have been able to drink our water uncleaned?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145718	Yes, it is speculation, but I am very much in line with the Social Democrat rapporteur. I really am a great supporter, yes, I am actually a fan of a very strict practice in Denmark, and that is something I know that our neighbouring countries and other countries in the European Union are looking to Denmark to get inspiration on how to deal with this issue. There should be no doubt that Danish practice and regulation are a major part of the reason why we in Denmark still have clean drinking water, which we can drink more or less uncleanly. I fully agree with that, and we must continue to do so, and we have done so. That was among other things. That is why I responded to Mr Enhedslisten's speech in relation to all the other measures that need to be taken. For can one assume that Enhedslisten does not believe that Danish drinking water is actually protected well enough? On the other hand, I think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145823	This is, of course, also where it becomes a little interesting in relation to the forward-looking. Because when we look at the map that I also had on the platform, it is not only a question of closed boreholes, but it is also a question of the fact that in many places in Denmark, not in all boreholes, but almost everywhere in the country, we can say that pesticide residues have been found above the limit values. Firstly, is this not a development which worries the rapporteur and which means that we have to stop and say: okay, we are doing well enough, even if we have a more rigorous practice at home in relation to other countries? The second part of that is that the rapporteur is a fan of our strict practice, and we like that in the Social Democrat Party. Is the rapporteur also a fan of the fact that we have this pesticide tax, which, of course, helps to ensure that it is the least straining pesticides that are being used and that in reality animates agriculture to use as little spray as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145917	No, in the Liberal Alliance, we are not a fan of taxes, nor of the pesticide tax. I would say, then, in relation to the chloride contract, that the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned, as I recall, in the platform before the vote that a risk-based sampling in relation to that substance does not mean that you can take it one by one in terms of how both the basic and the drinking water are affected by it. But it is clear that we must always be aware of the latest knowledge and constantly update ourselves on what substances we analyse for, so that we analyze for the right substances and what may be a risk of being sucked down to our groundwater.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522145959	The next question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150002	It is not easy to find answers to the rapporteur's question about the number of closed boreholes. I find numbers corresponding to Mr. Christian Polls 20 a year or 110, but how many of those who are closed on the basis of pesticide contamination are not immediately found. But we can be helped later, so perhaps we can find something, and otherwise we may need help from the Minister. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Carsten Bach believes that it is probably a relatively low number of closed boreholes, and then the risk of this proposal is minimal, and one could imagine that the cost that could be imposed in this connection was almost imperceptible. So could it not be to consider imposing this tax anyway and setting up a 'polluter pays' principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150101	Even the most imperceptible increase, and now I just take something randomly like the bottom tax in Denmark, will of course be an increase and will have some consequences. In this case, there will be an increase in a pesticide tax which, I believe, is already one of the world's highest if not the world's highest, and in my view this would be quite unreasonable in relation to a system in which it is already impossible to detect, detect specific sources of pollution, etc. etc. So no to Enhedslistens, one might say, remarks that it is almost imperceptible sums. We have an agricultural industry in Denmark that is already plagued by the highest taxes and the highest tax levels in the world, and the Liberal Alliance is not prepared to increase those levels.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150201	Well, now I was hoping there'd be a hole in it. In relation to other measures, could the rapporteur imagine that more could be done to protect our drinking water at all, or should we rather stop further action and let what happen next? Because, as I understand it, drinking water is already of such high quality that we should not do anything to preserve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150233	Now it is not the case that the existing monitoring and approval system is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur calls let happen what is happening. We have the world's most restrictive spray regulation in Denmark, we have the world's most fine-meshed surveillance network, we have the world's toughest and most effective authorisation system, and we have some of the world's top experts in this area. The Danish groundwater and drinking water are being dealt with very well, and I am actually proud of that, and we must of course continue to do so. But that does not mean that we should expand to the right and to the left and add additional taxes here and there and everywhere that the Enhedslisten is setting up. That's not even gonna happen. We have a system that works, and we must be proud and happy about that, and the Danes must be able to be quite safe and happy every day that they open to the tap, that they can drink their drinking water also uncleaned.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150336	The next question is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150339	Thank you very much. I was so excited when I heard the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance say that he was actually a fan of strict approval practice. That is why I would like to ask you about the problem we have at the moment with azoles, which are actually found in one in three samples taken in groundwater, and that is why more researchers have said that it is probably more persistent than you think to ordinary citizens who have not had Mr. Carsten Bach's job and that it can actually seep down to groundwater. Does the rapporteur not think, since he is now a fan of this strict authorisation practice, that such a situation, where a substance that is widely used and is found in one in three ground water wells, should give rise to an opportunity to look at the approval in the system we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150426	I am very pleased that Mrs Ida Auken just managed to fix drinking water wells for ground water drilling, because that is what we are talking about, i.e. monitoring has made some findings in some groundwater wells, and this monitoring is risk-based, and therefore we should be careful not to transfer these percentages directly. But I do not hide the fact that when we talk about our drinking water, we must constantly operate on the basis of the latest, most up-to-date and best knowledge.I think I have done so in a debate a short time ago with Mrs Ida Auken and Danske Waterworks here in the house. When we talk about our drinking water, we must constantly operate on the basis of newest and most up-to-date and best knowledge, no matter what very, very difficult pronunciations the individual substances have, and be at the forefront, and as in many other areas, when we talk about green policy, it is an advantage for Denmark to be ahead. If nothing else, it must be flattering for an environment minister or a government or anything else to be able to be a source of inspiration for other countries' protection of their groundwater. So, if nothing else, it could be a feather in the hat of the new Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150547	I would like to know whether the rapporteur, if there are uncertainties, thinks that it should benefit groundwater or pesticides. Take tebuconazole, which is one of these zoles that is being used today. The use has actually increased since you went in and made restrictions. It's these zoles that are actually found in one in three groundwater samples, that is to say it's actually leaking down. Shouldn't such uncertainty mean giving all the drugs a trip through the VAP fields and simply saying that we're not using them out there until we're sure they can't walk in our groundwater and our drinking water? Should not the uncertainties benefit the water and not pesticides in such a situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150627	In such a situation, as Mrs Ida Auken herself indicates, we must initiate further investigations and follow developments very closely and whether this matter can be traced elsewhere. That is what would be most reasonable, both in relation to the interests of agriculture and to the interests of the public, but especially in relation to the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150652	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522150701	Now we are tempted to take a third round and say something to the rapporteur. I guess that was a no that means that when there are these uncertainties, they shouldn't benefit the water, but then they should benefit the pesticides while doing further studies. There, we would say radically that when you get such clear and firm signs that a substance is more persistent, that is, more likely to penetrate into groundwater than you expected, you have to put restrictions in place immediately so that the uncertainty benefits the water and not the spray itself. But it is all about how we avoid getting into new problems in the future with new drugs, and it is really a little different from the one that has been raised today and that is about how we are getting paid for the sins of the past. On the radical side, we think it is a good idea to see whether we can get closer to the polluter pays principle, including when it comes to pesticides. It may be difficult to identify the polluter in an area such as this, and so we would like to help discuss it and have a dialogue with the industry, whether they themselves may have an interest in setting up a fund or another scheme, perhaps by putting some charge on their own funds, which can help pay for the problems that arise around the country. We would like to take part in this discussion. Another possibility may be to look at whether to use pesticide taxes, take them from the advertising levy funds and use them to pay some of the places where water consumers are to pay today for their groundwater and their drinking water to be sprayed so that the polluter no longer pays in practice in Denmark. We would all like to be involved in discussing this in the subsequent committee work. In this way, I am glad that it is being taken up so that we can get a fair payment for what a number of citizens have in store, namely some relatively large water bills for having opened new boreholes if, for example, there are. have leaked pesticides into their drinking water. In order to touch on the future protection too, so that we are not only talking about cleaning up what has gone wrong, we believe radically that it would be a very good idea to take all the drilling protection areas out of service, so that we do not spray on top of our drinking water. You can do organic farming on these areas, you can make hayhide, you can do other types of operation on them, but it would be a good idea not to use pesticides directly on top of our drilling protection areas. If we do so, then it is clear that we will have to go back into the same discussion about who is going to finance it. Is it the individual farmer, where it is just too bath, that you lie on top of a drinking water area, or do we also have that too I think we have an interest as a collective in helping farmers, so no one should go bankrupt because their fields lie exactly on top of the drinking water and groundwater. It is a slightly larger financial discussion, but indeed relevant to the one we are holding today. That's what we're gonna say. We would like to go into committee work and see if we can land it somewhere where we think it is possible to ensure that we get closer to the polluter pays principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151013	There is a question from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151017	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken for her speech. I think it is really good to have a direct message in relation to the BNBOs if you choose to say that it should be spray-free zones, because it is true that then the discussion would arise. Is this some kind of expropriation? Should there be compensation for those farmers who then have a land that they have had an expectation of being able to cultivate that they will not be able to grow anyway? And there I think it was nice, straight out of the bag, that it sounds to be the view of the Radical Left that farmers will have to be compensated for the loss of value that they have on the ground. The rapporteur also says that this is a major printing exercise. Does the rapporteur have any idea of what financial scope we are talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151057	Now we have the BNBOs mapped out, and it will be different from municipality to municipality. One could also look at whether there are some places where it will be particularly expensive for water users or for farmers, and see if from there you will have to have some state funds for this again, a place where we would very much like to include the premium funds and say that the money we are scratching for pesticide taxes is being used to compensate some of the farmers who then cannot grow their land fully. Otherwise, of course, we'd like to see if it can be taken over the water bill some of these places. In Aarhus you've looked at it and what you can do. So this is a discussion going on in this area, but I just think that we should have the political courage to take the decision, and then look at the funding and how it will be most fair, because I am sure that the Danes would like to take care of their drinking water in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151152	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151154	Thank you. I've been asking about this at some point because we were doing some of the same thinking. At that time, I was told that there are approx. 8,600 hectares of agricultural land today, located in the BNBOs, and it is estimated that there will be a replacement price of approx. one third of the value of the land, which is equivalent to in the region of 500 million. kr. So that's relatively much money. At least that's the answer I was told back then... that's gonna have to be found. So maybe it's just a radical deepening in relation to where you see the most obvious thing to find money in this order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151230	If an amount is to be found in the region of 500 million. kr., you can of course do it when there are 5 million Danes who would like to have clean water, so over a number of years to take these out and then say that for each Dane this costs x number of kr. and that's less than 100 kr., I can tell you that it's not unreasonable to have our drinking water taken care of. In fact, I think the Danes will do that. What would concern me is, of course, the distribution across the country, because you want some large cities where it will not be a problem, you can say because there are many to pay the bill, but there will be some rural areas where it can be relatively expensive for the individual water user, and there we would like to see a collective way of financing it either with pesticide taxes or with a fund or other.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151315	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151324	We have good drinking water and that we continue to have it is one of the most important environmental agendas at all. We have groundwater, which is affected by the sins of the past and to an unknown extent by modern practice. After all, we are not investigating for all pesticides and pesticide residues; we simply cannot. So when the Left says that we must take a position on the basis of the facts, can we not take a decision on the basis of concrete knowledge of the current content of pesticides and authorised pesticides or other substances, but perhaps the Liberal Alliance can tell us the exact content of pesticides and pesticide residues where they are not measured? That is why we have a precautionary principle, and that is why we must continue to tighten the approval procedure, reduce the scope for derogations and keep areas free from spraying. But that is not what the proposal is about, even though that is what the discussion is going to be about very much. The SF is very much in agreement with the grounds for the proposal put forward by the Alternative, and there is undoubtedly a wide range of legal problems and complex scenarios for who is responsible for what, not least for the sins of the past. In this way, there are many similarities to the problem of soil pollution. This is a problem of soil pollution, which has become a problem of groundwater because pesticides do not disappear after they have worked. This very brief proposal does not come up with any real proposals for solutions to it beyond the general level, but it sets an important agenda and we would like to acknowledge that. But, more generally, the proposal could perhaps be an opportunity to discuss how agriculture should be regulated in the future. In other words, agriculture is often paid for not polluting, for example. the catch crops in the model of targeted nitrogen regulation agreed by the government and a majority must not be paid by farmers, but either by rural funds or by taxpayers. There you can ask yourself whether it really is reasonable. But you could also ask a question about some of what we ourselves have been involved in. Is it reasonable that farmers should be compensated for not using spraying in the drilling-related protection areas? SF has meant this for a long time, not least when a farmer is severely affected by restrictions. Our acceptance that farmers are being compensated in the areas of borehole protection is due to a deliberate choice made in the 1990s to take account of groundwater and drinking water before the polluter pays principle. In concrete terms, there was a few cents on the cubic meter price to finance that groundwater protection. So this is a concrete position which we and other parties have continued since then, also in relation to the proposed ban on spraying in the BNBO, for which we want to continue to fight. But should the farmer be compensated in all cases, or only when his farm basis is removed by the intervention? These could be some of the things that could be very interesting to discuss. We would be happy to take part in the committee work on this, but we could actually also suggest that we have a hearing with some legal experts and some groundwater experts to find out what it is like to tackle the problems of the past and prevent new ones from happening, among other things. What we are doing is allocating responsibility and funding for it. So if the proposal could be such a starting point for a more thorough discussion with both legal experts and groundwater experts on the regulation of the area, we very much welcome it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151713	There are questions from Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151714	Yeah, thanks for the speech. Just in connection with the rapporteur's last proposal with an expert hearing, so that we can avoid future contamination of drinking water, or something like that, I think the rapporteur suggested: what I do not really understand, and what I actually object to, what I did in my own rapporteur's speech, is the fact that we have a waiting disaster, that we have heavy pollution of our groundwater and our drinking water, that we almost daily or weekly, or what I know no one else has to close drinking water wells because of pesticide residues and all kinds of other ill-treatment about our drinking water. Why is it necessary for the SF and the rest of the left to address our groundwater and our drinking water as something as bad as that? We have clean drinking water. Why should we constantly, excuse the expression, botanize so much in what we should do further? What we do actually works. Why don't we just keep doing what we're actually doing and that we're actually maybe the world's best at?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151832-2	Now I do not know if the rapporteur heard my introduction, but the advantage of having written down some of your speech is that you can actually read it out. I started by saying: we have good drinking water and it is one of the most important environmental agendas that we can continue to have it. So that was an answer. Yeah, we got good drinking water. I also made it clear in my speech that there are a great many pesticides and pesticide residues that we are not testing for, which means that problems can easily arise along the way. And that's what we're trying to address. What do we do in cases where we discover something that is bad for groundwater or for drinking water and that makes drinking water wells shut down? In fact, the proposal is primarily about how we allocate the burden in relation to that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522151929	Yes, the economy, the burden of payment for this, I will not comment further than what I have done. Once again, I would like to call on Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur to say that we could help each other to get these facts out and put the right questions in committee. In fact, I would very much like to take part in this so that we, and this is probably a hope which cannot be met, can once and for all get facts about the Danish groundwater and drinking water on the table, so that we all, all politicians, all rapporteurs have black and white, what it is that is up and down here, so that time and time again we cannot polemise how bad the Danish drinking water really is, when it is really fantastic and quite unique that we in Denmark have the opportunity to actually do farming right on top of our groundwater magazines.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152030-2	Yeah. It's good to get some facts on the table. I would just like to turn the question a little over and say that then perhaps the Liberal Alliance rapporteur can also help us to tell us what exactly the content of pesticides and pesticide residues is in those places where it is not measured.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152050	The next question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152053	Now that we are almost losing sight of the number of boreholes that are contaminated or less contaminated, and in how many that are closed, I would just like to say that I just stumbled over a study here from 2015, which says that pesticide residues had been found in 27 per cent. of the drinking water wells that had been tested. Well, it was only 3.6%. of these boreholes, where it was above the limit value. So, although our drinking water is absolutely drinkable, it is in danger, and it is not because we have to talk our drinking water down, but I think the rapporteur can confirm that we need to do something to preserve the good quality of drinking water we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152143	I can only confirm that we must. This is particularly problematic for those boreholes where it is above the limit value, and we need very close groundwater monitoring. However, testing for everything is almost impossible, and that is why the precautionary principle is so crucial on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152207	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152219	Thank you for that, and thank you for presenting this motion for a resolution which has given rise to a very, very important and central debate today. I think I'll start my speech where Mrs. Trine Torp of the SF and Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance ended with this whole discussion about what is really the status of the Danish groundwater. A while ago I heard a debate about wolves, and that is a completely different context from this one, but there Bengt Holst from the Zoo in Copenhagen said something that I thought was very significant for this debate too. He said that sometimes it's the fear you have to attack. I think we should also bear that in mind as politicians in this matter. We have a political responsibility not to speak up a fear in relation to our drinking water. I have heard Danes who suddenly become completely worried and will switch to buying water on plastic because they have seen stories in the media that are quickly spoken up. There we just have a political responsibility to keep the proportions in order and keep conveying the message that Danish drinking water is quite unique and completely safe to drink. It just needs to be oxygenated and filtered before we drink it. There is no need for any chemical cleaning. It is unique and it is a huge gift that we have received from previous generations and that we must pass on to future generations. That's why we have to follow this closely. We need to be extremely aware of how developments are. Now the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned some figures from 2015. I have some figures from 2016, and I can at least see that there has been a decrease from 2015 to 2016. In the numbers I have, it was 26%. In the case of water-supply drilling, pesticides were found, and in 3.5 per cent there had been an overrun. This is a slight decrease compared to the previous year, but when we talk about an order of 3.6 and 3.5 per cent, it is a decrease. What I also hear from those who know about this is that in general over recent years there has been a decrease in pesticide findings in the upper layers of groundwater, and I can understand that being defined as 0-30 m. This is a good expression of the fact that we are doing something that works, but of course we should not be content with the fact that pesticides are then found in 3.5 or 3.6 per cent. We have to be obscene all the time. In relation to the specific motion for a resolution which is being discussed today and which is going on here with the 'polluter pays' principle, it can be said that that principle already applies today. If pesticides are used which are no longer authorised and which cannot be used, then the polluter pays principle applies. However, the pesticides that are found to have been used legally in a quantity that is legal, I think we actually have a political responsibility for, because it is we who have allowed that practice. It is we who have allowed that use and if it turns out to give large pesticide residues that are above the limit values, then we have a political responsibility for it. I would much rather that we regulate what is allowed and what we have to do than go in and make a lot of rules about who should pay. It's kind of secondary. After all, we have to solve the problem, that is what we must first and foremost do. I am fully in favour of the polluter-pays principle. Today we have that in relation to those substances that are not allowed if they are used anyway. But I also believe that we must take political responsibility for what is then allowed at home. And if you stay within the limits that we have helped to adopt here in the Folketing by a majority and jointly, among other things. when we created a new pesticide strategy not so long ago, and if it turns out that it puts a strain on our groundwater, which we cannot live with and which could pose a health risk, then we have a political responsibility to intervene and get it right. I think that we did very well in the pesticide strategy on which we reached agreement last time when we increased groundwater monitoring. I understand that the Social Democrats would like to increase it even more. That's fine. We've decided 100 new boreholes. I think we should give it a chance to work and see the value of it. I have not seen what the Social Democrats are proposing in concrete terms, but I think it is worth saying that we have already increased monitoring, plus that we are going to test for more pesticides than we are doing today. We are going to use the VAP, the alert system for leaching to groundwater, much more comprehensive than we have done so far. I think that's the best way to address this. In my ideal world, everything had to be tested before it was allowed to be used in the fields. I can then understand that is both too expensive and too slow and all sorts of other things, but in principle I would actually think that was a pretty obvious way of doing it. Then we will soon have to look at the pesticide tax, and there I would just like to say that, with conservative glasses, there is no desire for us to abolish the pesticide tax we have today as long as it works, and it is clearly my impression that it does. It may be that there are elements in it that we need to look at whether it can be done differently. It's screwed up by three different parameters, which you adjust from. One is about health, not public health, but the health of the operator. There I understand that there is some new technology that makes it possible to demand that filling should be done automatically in closed systems. Perhaps, in this way, we can do good for the operator and for society at all by regulating the tax in relation to it. But it is such a small technical element that we can discuss when we get there. In the Conservative People's Party, we cannot support this resolution, but we welcome the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152811	There is a question from Mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152815	Thank you. The rapporteur points out here that farmers have used the pesticides legally, and that is why they should not be held responsible for the problem if you find pesticides in a drinking water well later on. I'm gonna agree with her on that. That's how the system is set up. But it was also the way the system was designed when the oil industry's environmental pool was made. Though tanks had been installed in the soil and made it perfectly legal, some of them ended up leaking and creating soil pollution, and then a collective arrangement was made so that it was not the consumers, but the industry itself, who had to deal with this problem. That is what we are proposing from the alternative today, i.e. that a similar arrangement be made. Would it not be reasonable to set up such a scheme where it is said that when the use of pesticides has gone wrong and they have ended up in a drinking water well, it is, of course, the industry that needs to come and handle this clean-up?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522152914	I would think it was admirable if the industry itself came and took the initiative on something like that and did it. I would welcome that. But on the other hand, I think I'm going to say to Mr. Christian Poll, that you might have to be careful about transferring this logic to all sorts of other policy areas. We could look at health policy: let us say that there was a treatment form of cancer that we thought was good today, and all the research we could do showed that this was the right way to treat this type of cancer. So let's say it takes five years and we find out that it's been the wrong way to do it. Should you then be liable for damages because you have acted on the basis of the knowledge you had at that time and the information you had at that time? I know it's not a hundred percent the same, but I think you should be careful to judge the future with today's eyes... if it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153011	In other words, with the health system as an example, there is already that mechanism today, as far as I can see, because if the health system has not been properly treated, you will be ill again, and it is again the health system with the economy that lies there that has to deal with the problem. So the mechanism is in fact in it So, when a drinking water pollution is proven to be caused by pesticide poisoning, it is something that comes from agriculture, and then agriculture can collectively, with a scheme that they themselves now choose to tighten up in some way, pay for a new drinking water drilling. Surely it should not be the consumer as it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153058	I don't think so, sir. Christian Poll is right in comparison with the health care system, because let's say that this patient who was treated with a method that was thought to be the right one has died two years later. Well, then the health service hasn't paid a price. Then the only person who has paid a price is the patient who has been treated on the basis of the knowledge that one had at that time, in the same way as we regulate pesticides today, based on the knowledge that we currently have. Then it may be that we become wiser along the way, and then we have to cut down on our regulation. I think we should have tough clearance practices and that we should follow this very closely. But we must also take political responsibility, and if we from Christiansborg allow a substance, it is we who bear the responsibility if it turns out that we should not have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153140	The next question is Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153144	Thank you. Otherwise, if I heard it quite correctly, I heard the rapporteur say that she would wait for the impact of the pesticide agreement. If I heard correctly, I would like to know how long the rapporteur thinks we should wait before doing anything else to take care of our drinking water.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153207	After all, there is a clear agreement that we should evaluate the pesticide tax and, in the light of the knowledge that comes out of that evaluation, the contracting party will have to discuss it here. I am just saying that, with the glasses of the Conservative People's Party, we find it very difficult to believe that we should get to a place where we should abolish the pesticide tax. The Conservative People's Party has no reason to believe that this is the right solution. For example, if you have followed the writings that have been in Altingen about the pesticide tax, where the advantages and disadvantages have been highlighted, I think there is a lot to point out that the pesticide tax has an effect. But an evaluation work has been set in motion, and I personally cannot remember when it is going to start, but it is clear that we must look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153249	Then perhaps I should really understand that the pesticide agreement and its evaluation are one thing, but that it does not prevent us from doing other things to take care of our drinking water. I understand in the rapporteur's body language that I have understood correctly. Then I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153312	It is quite true that the fact that we are discussing the pesticide tax does not mean that we cannot take a position on all sorts of other things that concern our groundwater protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153321	The next question is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153325	Thank you. I would also like to sign up to the rapporteur, among others. to say that we do not want to abolish the pesticide tax, nor do we see any reason for this, on the contrary, but it may well be that we need to be even more ambitious than what has been proposed, and one of the things that has been included in the agreement is that it will be possible to do so. Then the rapporteur also touched on this question as to whether further steps should be taken, and we have among other things. Pointed to reinforced groundwater monitoring. This was also part of what we had in the pesticide negotiations, where we had increased monitoring already there. However, when we have pointed this out, it is because we can see that it was also one of the points that the rapporteur made that, unfortunately, pesticides are being found in our groundwater that is above the limit value. Some of these are old sins, but some of them are not old sins, and so we would really like to take even more steps to strengthen our groundwater. One thing is surveillance, but another is this protection of the BNBOs. Is it one of the things Conservatives want to look at again, whether we should remove the BNBOs from e.g. spraying to further ensure our groundwater?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153429-2	Well, in the Conservative People's Party we keep all options open, but it's also quite important that we don't try to shoot grey sparrows with guns. Well, I mentioned earlier that in 2016 it was in 3.5%. of the measurements that exceedances of the limit value were found. I think that there may be about 17,000 hectares of BNBO areas in Denmark, without being absolutely sure of that figure, and is it necessary to say that there is a ban on spraying in all these areas? I'm not necessarily sure about that. Then I think it might be very interesting to hear from the Social Democratic Party, where you could actually imagine finding the money to compensate those farmers where you go in and restrict the way they use their land. As I had a dialogue with Mrs Ida Auken about earlier, the assessment is that it might cost up to 1⁄2 billion. kr. So I think it would be obvious at some point to hear from the Social Democratic Party, where one imagines finding that money.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153524	There is no pressure for any more questions, yes, there is one more question. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153528	It's that maternity leave. I have to apologize for being out of shape. I'm a little rusty in the questioning technique. But I would like to answer that question. In the survey that has been carried out, it has been found that it is about 8,600 hectares which are agricultural land. So that is where you would have to go in and compensate, that is right, and that will then be some amount. Among other things, it has. That's what we're talking about here. That's what we're talking about here. That's what we're talking about here, 500 million. kr. One of the points we have made, and which we also pointed out in the negotiations, is the pesticide tax. So could the rapporteur imagine using the pesticide tax to help compensate farmers for removing this land from spraying? Because, as the rapporteur said at the outset, it is, of course, a political responsibility to look after our drinking water, and if we know that it is the vulnerable areas around the wells that are particularly vulnerable, it would be a good place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153619	I and the Conservative People's Party would like to make a very targeted effort. That is what we are trying to do in all other policy areas, and that is what we are trying in particular to do in the field of the environment, namely to take action where we have the most value for money. And I am just not convinced that it makes sense to take all the 8 600 hectares that are agricultural land today and say that then you should not spray there at all. I would much rather make it targeted and spend the money much wiser where the problems are. So I still think that we are a little shooting gray sparrows with cannons by taking all 8,600 hectares, but we are, in fact, open to discussing whether, where the challenges are greatest, we need to focus on protecting the BNBOs better than we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153702	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522153716	In the alternative, we have no doubt that we would like to dispose of pesticides in general. We have a vision that Denmark will produce 100% organically by 2040, and on the way there we will also have to do what we can to reduce the strain of pesticides, especially of our drinking water, but also of nature. The proposal we have put forward here today is, of course, about how we pay for the pollution that causes drinking water wells to be closed and new drinking water wells to be set up. There has been a lot of talk today about how big this problem really is. I think it is a very important discussion and I will continue to work on the work of the committee, as several rapporteurs have said, that we are trying to find the right figures and get a clearer picture of how many boreholes are involved and also want to see what the cost is both per. drilling and overall. Some small figures have been mentioned from certain rapporteurs at a few percent, and so I would like to highlight an article from February this year from the Engineer, where Claus Vangsgaard, a biologist and senior consultant at the Danish Water and Waste Water Association, says: "It looks like a disaster for the water supply, there is no doubt about that. This is a huge problem on a scale that we have not experienced since the most widespread pesticide so far, BAM. And this may even be a bigger problem than BAM, he says to the Commune. In other words, we have something that may appear to be a few small figures, statistically speaking, but when you go out and investigate more and more spray poisons out there, you find more, and then the problem suddenly gets bigger. So we are dealing with a problem which, in the eyes of the alternative, is quite serious, and that is why we think it is important that we also manage the funding for this. In other words, when we have a number of drinking water wells every year that have to close because of spray poisons, it is quite clear that if they are spray poisons, they come from agriculture. It is mainly agriculture that uses pesticides, and pollution can therefore be attributed to an industry. The idea of our proposal is then that it is the industry that will collectively set up a scheme that will pay for new drinking water wells. In this way, you will also get an increased incentive to leave the spray, because if we now imagine that the industry will agree with itself that they will have to apply a special tax here, to which everyone who uses spray poisons will have to pay, well then spray poisons will become more expensive, and that way you will have more people consider producing organically. So for us it is a logical arrangement and there are several who have confirmed that the scheme on which it is inspired, the Oil Industry Environmental Pool, has actually been a well-functioning scheme which has been able to create the necessary clean-up on a self-financing basis. However, I am very pleased that we have had a good debate on this proposal today. We have been around a great deal and we have talked about a great deal of the future, not just funding, but also the means to ensure that drinking water is more secure. There has also been concern about whether drinking water is bad in Denmark, and there I would also like to reassure people out there that drinking water is fine for the most part, and we monitor it and when we find problems, we solve them. This proposal is about how we should pay when we find problems. What do you have to pay? Are these the drinking water users? Is it all of us that must continue to pay now? Or is it perhaps more reasonable that those who use spray poisons and have the benefits of using spray poisons should pay that bill? So thank you for a good debate, and I look forward to the committee's work becoming wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154143	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154147	Thank you. I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur for the authors himself noted in his concluding remarks that drinking water is generally good and that as a citizen you can drink it safely. I think that's a good thing to do. What I wanted to say at the end of this debate is that in recent times it has been there sometimes and it has actually been there; I think it was the Conservative rapporteur who also took it up that when you measure in the upper layers of land, it turns out that you find less in the upper layers of land and that it is decreasing compared to what you have previously found in those places. This is a good development, after all. So does the rapporteur for the alternative recognise that there is some indication that we are on the right track?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154236	I believe that at many levels we are on the right track and you can safely drink our drinking water in Denmark. But we must also say that when we look at it a little extra, we are sometimes a little surprised, and then an extra effort has to be made. The proposal we are discussing today is, of course, about who will pay when an additional effort is to be made, and I think that should be the polluter rather than just all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154304	Thank you. I would therefore like to thank you for recognising that, when researchers can now report more and more times that they actually find less in the upper layers of land in some of the places in question than they did in the past, they are on the right track. I think that was a good recognition to get from the alternative. Then it also helps to set a fine framework for many of the measures and tightenings that have been taken over time. With the last pesticide strategy agreement at the latest, we also provided a clear framework that we have a strict and very restrictive authorisation system. So in relation to the way you are spraying today with the funds that have been approved today and where there is a great deal that has been banned and good for it there is something that suggests that you are also on the right path here. Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154358	I am now not sure that I will think that the existing agreement is sufficient. I would, of course, like to see, as several rapporteurs have said today, the areas of drilling protection included, in other words, an agreement to phase out the use of pesticides and fertilizers in the areas of drilling protection. It is not part of the agreement right now, only as a voluntary instrument, and I would say that we must at least take part in it if we are to feel more secure than we do today. I feel generally safe, but I also feel that our authorisation system for spray poisons can be a lot better.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154436	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154453	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food to begin with. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522154520	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Alternative, SF and Enhedslisten for having tabled this motion for a resolution. Following the resolution, before the end of this year, in other words 2018, the government is required to introduce a ban on the use of wild animals in circuses. In practice this means elephants, sea lions and zebras, which are the wild mammals which today must be kept and shown in the Danish circus. Overall, the government supports the intentions of this proposal. The Government agrees with the proposers that the ban on the holding and display of wild animals in circuses should be extended to include elephants, sea lions and zebras. The time has simply elapsed since wild animals appear for humans. Today we would like to see wild animals in a more natural environment rather than in a mange where they behave contrary to their natural behavior. I must honestly admit that I believe that the later generations will look back on us with a little head shake when they look at the things that for us have been quite natural to be entertained in our childhood. However, the Government does not believe that a ban on wild animals in the circus, with its entry into force even before the end of this year, will provide an opportunity to find the best solution in terms of ensuring animal welfare for the animals kept in the circus today. The rules on the circus are today in the announcement of the holding and display of animals in the circus. Following the announcement, there is a positive list of animals to be presented and a negative list of animals not to be kept and presented in the circus. Most wild species are already on the negative list, but elephants, sea lions and zebras, which in this context are considered wild species, are on the positive list and are therefore allowed to be held and presented in the circus today. The keeping of these species shall be prohibited for persons other than circus and zoos. Banning teams and showings of these animals in the circus will mean that only zoos in Denmark can hold elephants, sea lions and zebras. Extension of the ban to include elephants, sea lions and zebras will require amendment of the Animal Protection Act so that the species concerned can be included in the negative list of the Order. Extension of the ban would mean that the circus would not be able to hold or show animals after the ban entered into force. In the case of wild animals currently present in the circus in Denmark, the introduction of such a ban gives rise to a little more reflection, among other things. on the question of what will happen to the animals afterwards and the question of expropriation. Following the information provided by the Ministry of the Environment and Food, there are four elephants, three sea lions and five zebras. The motion for a resolution states that there are good opportunities to secure the future of elephants after a ban. But it is not so easy to place an old cock elephant, even in the animal world. It is difficult and there are no easy solutions. When we introduce a ban for animal welfare reasons, it is also important that a ban is implemented in an animal welfare manner in a sound manner. The wild animals living in the Danish circus have been fond of these circuses for a number of years, and the animals have been used to humans for a number of years; they have never tried to fend for themselves as real wild animals in nature. And we therefore have a responsibility to ensure that the existing wildlife in the circus, which is covered by this ban, is properly dealt with. I understand people who know more about this than I do, and there are many of them that it is not necessarily easy to reposition animals. Elephants are e.g. Very social animals which relate to the people they have been walking up and down for many years. And what should happen to existing wild animals should be taken into account when imposing a ban. In addition to animal welfare considerations, there are also some legal considerations that we must observe, for example. In relation to expropriation. The length of a transitional period is also important in this respect. Therefore, a ban should be introduced with an appropriate transitional regime in order to clarify animal welfare considerations and how best to ensure this before a ban enters into force. In addition, we must also take into account the fact that the circus that owns the animals can adjust to the consequences of a ban on behaviour. As I started by saying, the government supports the extension of the existing ban to include elephants, sea lions and zebras. However, the Government does not consider that a ban on wild animals in circuses, which will enter into force before the end of this year, will enable the best solution to be found in relation to animal welfare for the animals kept in the circus today. While a ban on the introduction of new animals can be introduced relatively quickly by amending the Animal Protection Act, a transitional period is necessary for the existing wild animals in the Danish circus. During the transitional period which, and I would like to stress this, must be as short as possible, it must be clarified what will happen to the existing animals once the transitional period has expired. In this context, it is essential that the animal welfare aspects of the matter are properly clarified and I will ensure that relevant professionals are involved in order to ensure this. I also expect me to ask the Animal Health Council for a statement on the relocation of wild animals kept in the circus. The government therefore supports the intentions behind the resolution, but cannot vote in favour of the resolution as it stands. However, we look forward to a good discussion on this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155133	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155137	This is the kind of resolution which is a little special in that it has been partially accepted a few hours after it was tabled. I wish that were the case with several motions for resolutions. I'd like that. I have been able to see that in the area of elephants, Mr. Erling Bonnesen, has said that he imagines that you could phase out the elephants in 3-5 years, and I don't know what it's all about. Now the Minister mentions that there may be something about expropriation if the deadline for the motion for a resolution should be within six months, but is there any experience from other industries that such limits the opportunities for an industry to act in the profession in which they are in, and that it is going on with some expropriation? I think it is a little thoughtful, especially when you see that in a large number of European countries such a phasing-out is taking place. So could the Minister elaborate on why it has to be these 3-5 years to phase out the cock elephants?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155244	Sorry, I'm pulling on the smile tape; it's the phasing out of the cock elephants that makes me smile a little. I am not going to lay down on a number of years, and I would say that, for my part, it is not the expropriation that is the great thing that is shining and blinking, but that it is one of the things that we must also take into account. For me and I believe for all of us in here, including the questioner, this is about animal welfare. It is precisely because the proposal is based on the fact that we want to take account of these animals, and if we want to do so, we must also do so for those animals that are already in the situation in which we do not want to put animals in the future. So that's what's important to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155323	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155325	If the starting point is animal welfare, it must of course be important that we get to this phase-out as soon as possible, so that we don't have years where these elephants have to be transported around and exposed to stress, because they have to be moved from one place to another. Can the rapporteur not look at whether one could find a single place in Denmark, a desert island or a sparsely inhabited island where you could unleash these elephants and give them a good pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155351	The questioner came to say the rapporteur, but it is now the Minister. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155354	Yeah, but it's so new, I'm wrong myself sometimes. It also raises some interesting perspectives to unleash a bunch of elephants on an island. I would say: elephants are social animals, elephants are very intelligent animals, elephants are animals that relate to those they associate with, including people. That is why I say: let us now find the solution that is the right one. I am simply not sure that the right solution is to say: let us keep elephants at Saltholm or elsewhere for that matter. Now that this is based on a desire for increased animal welfare, we also owe it to the animals to listen to people who know more about it than both the questioner and I.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155449	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. And the next speaker in line is Mr. Simon Kollerup as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155501	Thank you for that, and I do not know whether I am also being promoted today as an elephant rapporteur, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen. This could happen to all of us on this motion for a resolution. Thank you to the parties SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative who have tabled the motion for a resolution, which has also led to a huge debate on an important subject, namely the future of the wild animals in the circus. In this context, we count elephants, sea lions and zebras in my view an unacceptable way of treating these wild animals in relation to their natural behavior. At that very point, the wild animals are different from the purely domesticated animals. It is therefore primarily a question of animal welfare when we consider whether or not wild animals should be shown in a circus. In the Social Democratic Party we agree with the purpose of the resolution, but we are very concerned about the timescale in the proposal. We want to help find a fair balance and I would like to criticise the proposers a little in order to get to the lift tab so high that you no longer touch the ground in the eagerness to ban the wild animals in the circus. Because, in our view, there are challenges with too rapid phasing-in of a ban. There is animal welfare. One can ask oneself how animals that are banned will end after a short period of time. Under what conditions we will find the Danish circus elephants in a very short time if they, for example. are sold to foreign circus or anywhere else? So animal welfare is involved when we assess the short time horizon. There are also purely legal considerations to be taken into account, and then there is also a reasonable view of those who, in good faith and also entirely within the legal framework, have invested in the animals they bring into their circus. That is why we think it is sensible to make a transitional period. We in the Social Democratic Party are extremely aware that a transitional period will be as short as possible, and in this respect we think it is a good thing that the Minister, as the Minister said from the Chair, will involve the Animal Ethnic Council in assessing how to make it as brief as possible and at the same time pay tribute to the concerns I have highlighted earlier. I would also like to say that it is part of my assessment of this case that circus show shows have only human entertainment as their object, as opposed to, for example. zoos where there is serious dissemination work, which in zoos in particular is involved with a gravity in the work. There is a reflection that is more stationary and more natural facilities, etc. In this way, there is also a connection in the attitude of the Social Democrats over time on this matter. I believe that if we can preserve our zoos on the basis of the adoption that will take place here, I shall have nothing against the implementation of the legislative proposal. And with these comments, as far as my party is concerned, I can also recommend the draft law for consideration in high places and in a possible committee. I am not going to go that far today, in other words to give support to the specific proposal. I have referred to the time limit in the past. Instead, I would say that I am satisfied with the agreement we have made with the Danish People's Party and the government to make this illegal with a reasonable transition period. I would like to thank Mrs Karina Due and Mr. Erling Bonnesen for good conversations about this in sometimes hectic course. That is why I would actually recommend that a genuine ban on wild animals in the circus be implemented through a report which ensures the right balance and proper consideration in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155932	There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522155937	Thanks for receiving me. After all, we are fully in agreement with the Social Democrats that what we have now is unacceptable. And I think that the rapporteur touched on an aspect which may not be fully included in the proposal. It's the opportunity to sell these wild animals to other circuses in other countries. However, there must be some experience to be gained when there are now several countries in Europe that are doing so outlawed. Then it should be possible in a committee to draw in what is then done elsewhere. Is it possible that we could then work to ensure that there are some special reserves, for example? Somewhere in North Africa? Others have talked about other types of reservations, but for elephants it might be okay. So I really think that including the fact that you have to end up with a report where you can't just export the wild animals to other countries that then use them in their circuses is worth including in the further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160038	It is, at least, a genuine concern that I myself have. In other words, if you had to implement a ban with very rapid execution, I would very much not have to stand and watch heartbreaking television recordings of the Rambilee or other elephants who might be in vibe in the Danish circus now, perform in Hungary or somewhere else where animal welfare may be even worse. I think it is good to include the experience of other countries. In fact, I would rather you get rid of those elephants and zebras yourself, and what is when the time comes. What I want to take on with my fellow Members here is that we find a reasonable, but as short as possible, timescale to get it done as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160125	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160128	Thank you for that, I can be very brief. I would just like to sign up for our good discussions in the course of this process, and also to say that we have, together, just as we have come to discuss a draft report text on it precisely in order to deal with these issues that lie within it. So it is an expression of genuine, good Christiansborg corridor talk about it, you might say, also along with the Danish People's Party and other parties that are on the government side. So thank you for that. And then there was this little surprise about the arrangements and everything. I think there are more of us who are knights of Dannebrog, but I haven't gotten the Order of Elephants. And now I've become an elephant rapporteur instead. Let's take it with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160210	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160211	At least I don't know how to distribute these. However, the elephant rapporteur is a fine title that we can consider introducing. In fact, I forgot to answer Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen on an earlier question about whether we could not release the elephants in Africa. I am not sure that it would go well, even for the elephants what to say is survival and adaptability in environments that are completely alien to them, given how they have grown up. So I just wanted to make that point, I think. But thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160244	Then we thank the Social Democrat rapporteur and move on to Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160255	The Danish People's Party fully agrees that wild animals do not belong in the circus. That time is over! Today we find it unthinkable to have lions and tigers in the circus, but it has actually been practiced in our lifetime but just barely in my lifetime. Now the last wild animals must also be banned, namely elephants, zebras and sea lions. I would like to thank Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative for having tabled the motion for a resolution and thereby contributing to this debate on whether wild animals in the circus belong in 2018. The fact that there is now a B proposal is, however, a bit like kicking in an open door, because the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats have long ago started negotiations with the government precisely to ban the last wild animals in the circus, so we are in full swing. I would like to take this opportunity to thank both the Social Democracy and the Government for their constructive and very good cooperation on this. We have also become wiser, because we have found out that this is not something you just do by snapping your fingers, not if you have to do it the right way. One of the things I've been really worried about was what's gonna happen to those animals when the ban comes into force. Under no circumstances do we want animals to be killed, and it is certainly not in our spirit that they should be sent to a circus in another country and then live on in the same way or worse. So it is incredibly important for the Danish People's Party that animal welfare should take precedence over a ban. Another problem is that we cannot control other people's property in the same way. It may be the case that animals should be expropriated, and this requires a change of law. We must ensure that all aspects are clarified so that we do so in such a good way with animal welfare in the highest place and with all the legal aspects clarified, in other words in the best way possible for animals. Then a ban must come into force as soon as possible. So it is not the case that the time perspective is rubber band in meter size when it comes to phasing out, because it has to be as fast as possible, but it has to be done in the right way and with the animals in the highest place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160532	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160534	I would also just like to thank the Danish People's Party's Animal Welfare Rapporteur for a good dialogue. On the way to this, we soon realized that it's not just snapping your fingers and that you think you've done the good work of the day. In order for this to be the good work, we need to get around the things that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party well outlines here. These are also some of the things we're going to try to deal with in this text, which is now in the form of a draft report. So thank you for that. Then I do not know whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can also start to call himself an elephant rapporteur, but we will see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160606	I have been called elephant before, but rapporteur, I do not know. But that's the way it is. I would say, in any case, that it is absolutely true that it is not just snapping your fingers. It has been a process in which we have also learned a great deal, precisely that it is not something you just do if that is how you want to do it in the right way. So it's been educational, but we're gonna make it happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160630	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160642	Thank you. Time has simply run from wild animals in the circus. Disruption, you might say, finds itself in many places around society, and now it is also on its way here. What used to be customary is no longer so. Now it's time again, one can say, to look at the rules on wild animals in the circus • more specifically for elephants, zebras and sea lions, which this is all about. In principle, the Left agrees that the holding and display of wild animals in circuses should be phased out completely, including elephants, zebras and sea lions, but we cannot vote in favour of the resolution as it stands. It is not sufficiently clear what a ban can and will mean in terms of animal welfare for wild animals in the circus in Denmark and for the animal species concerned. If these animals are to be re-placed, this poses a risk to animal welfare, which is why further testing is necessary. In addition, a number of legal questions, such as the right to expropriation, need to be clarified before a possible ban can be formulated in concrete terms. We in the Left propose and support a report which we have already discussed in the past in the debate, which aims, in principle, to ban wild animals in circuses, including elephants, zebras and sea lions, with an appropriate transitional regime, thus also addressing the animal welfare and legal challenges. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands in its present form, but are working on the text of the report to clarify it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160819	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's the Liberal Alliance by sir. Carsten Bach, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522160828	Thank you. I would like to start by quoting Chapter 1 of the Animal Protection Act, General provisions, § 1: "Animals are living beings and must be treated safely and protected as far as possible from pain, suffering, anxiety, lasting but significant disadvantage. Wild animals belong in wild nature and not in a circus mange. There can be no two opinions on that. In general terms, we should actually do much more to promote free and wild nature and the habitats of species, and make much more use of nature ourselves. Experiences in free and wild nature are clearly preferable to the artificial and unnatural performance of animals in a circus tent. So it may well be that time has run out of wild animals and here in parentheses noted that wild animals are said in quotation marks in the circus. But are they really also wild animals, i.e. the concrete four elephants, three sea lions and five zebras, which are the only so-called wild animals left in the Danish circus, when they have now quite or largely never experienced anything other than captivity and an unnatural contact with humans for them? It is certainly not my view that these animals are now being harmed. In that case, it would also already be prohibited in relation to section 1 of the Animal Protection Act, which I then started by reading, or in relation to section 2, which I will now quote: "Everyone who keeps animals must ensure that they are treated carefully, including that they are housed, fed, watered and cared for, taking into account their physiological, behavioral and health needs in accordance with recognised practical and scientific experience. In other words, it is primarily the animal welfare of the existing so-called wild animals in the Danish circus that must be taken into account in any future ban. I am, as many others have had to admit today from the platform, not an animal welfare expert, but it certainly does not seem unlikely that the best animal welfare solution for the four elephants, three sea lions and five zebras could be just as quiet to allow time to run out for the existing conditions and only allow a ban to apply in the future. However, I am certainly open to animal welfare professional arguments that can support another solution that clearly complies with the general provisions of the Animal Welfare Act. There are also the expropriative conditions to take into account, which probably could also speak in order to allow the 12 animals to continue in the mane until the last sawdust has passed through the hourglass. That is why I look forward, during the work of the committee, to clarifying the future aspects and consequences of the resolution, but as it is formulated in concrete terms with the entry into force at the end of this year, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522161217	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. Then it's the alternative. I can see that it's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, on his way to the platform on behalf of the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522161232	Thank you. Our rapporteur on this proposal has had to run into negotiations at the Treasury, so I have received some notes in his hand on this proposal, on which we ourselves are co-sponsors. We are glad that it is positive that a good solution needs to be found for these animals and, of course, to have them safely transferred to their retirement. So we're really looking forward to finding each other, because now we're gonna have to push for the last few animals. It can be a little silly sometimes to talk about legislation when we are dealing with so few animals, but now we have to sort of push the last part of the development to phase it out. So, of course, we support this proposal on which we ourselves are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522161319	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next I can see from here is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522161337	Thank you. After all, it is nice to hear from the debate that everyone in this way agrees that the time has run from having wild animals whose only purpose is to entertain people. A number of European countries have already done so, and now Denmark should follow and be banned from keeping wild animals in circuses, including those which are not currently covered by the 50-year-old ban on predators in circuses, namely mammals such as elephants, sea lions and zebras. Moving from place to place, spending a long time in transport vehicles on roads, staying in small enclosures and pools is contrary to the natural needs of animals, and animals often develop a stereotype, anxious, aggressive or stressful behavior. For a long time now, animal protection organizations have recommended a halt to the use of wild animals for human entertainment. That is why we are also co-sponsors of this motion for a resolution, and I can hear that the discussion is very much centred around how quickly it can be done here. I very much hope that you will also go into a think box so that it is not only natural departure, but that you can actually find a good way to get these animals on relatively quickly to something that is much more worthy of animal welfare than being in a circus. So I hope that in the further debate that will take place, we will press the accelerator a little and hear some of the good people who know something about wild animals and how best to help them and also find creative solutions that are not at the expense of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522161525	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522161534	Thank you, sir. President. B 126 is a motion for a resolution on which we can of course have many thoughts. The ban on keeping wild animals is regulated today by an announcement, and after the announcement there is a positive and negative list, and elephants, sea lions and zebras are right now on the positive list. It is, of course, forbidden for anyone other than circuses and zoos to keep these animals, and the ban on these animals in circuses means that only zoos can have them in the future. In the Conservatives we generally agree that it is approaching the time when these animals will no longer be performing in the circus. Of course, you can discuss how much difference there is between being an elephant in the circus. Many of us here have probably experienced those in the circus who have travelled around the country and in a zoo. I am not going to comment on that, but at least it can be said that they are in fixed installations in zoos. However, the extension of the ban will require an amendment to the Animal Protection Act so that animals can be included in the negative list of the regulation. As I said, these are four elephants, three sea lions and five zebras, and the resolution describes that there are good opportunities to secure the future of the elephants after a ban. It is clear to me that right now we do not know how to secure these animals, and especially the elephants, in the future. We cannot throw them out in the wild nature there they would not have a chance and we can also look at the statements that have been made that it is probably not interesting for any of the zoos either. So we're gonna create a problem by going in and making this ban. I agree that we must have it forward-looking, but we are facing a challenge which, as I see it, is very great in terms of what solution we need to find. And I just want to say that if the solution is that these elephants are going to Spain or something, then the question is whether we are doing something good animal welfare for these elephants in Denmark. Then I think it was better for them to stay where they are now. That is why it is important that we go into it further and get the expertise connected to it, and the Minister has promised that he will do so. We also have a legal consideration to take in relation to expropriation, if that is what will be necessary I hope it will not. But that means that there are rights, and we also know that, according to the provisions of the Constitution, it must be in the public interest for us to go in and expropriate. After all, property rights are inviolable, and that is why we have a task to do in order to find a solution for the remaining livestock. As I said, we have a task in which the Animal Ethics Council can of course help us and make some observations, but in the end I think it will be a task where compromises will be reached, because it is difficult right now to see who is going to take over these elephants, and that is a task which is of a size in which we, I think, should avoid the issue of exports. But the further treatment will show that. However, the proposal that we should phase out by the end of 2018 will not benefit these animals in terms of animal welfare. On the contrary, it will be a haste that will not be good. We support the introduction of a ban on keeping these wild animals in the long run, but we believe that the time taken for it to take 3 or 5 or 7 or 8 years will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162017	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162027	Sometimes political pressure seems to work. Just a few hours after the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative tabled this motion for a resolution, there was, in fact, a majority which would partially ban wild animals in the circus, and I think it is positive that there has been a process there. I would also like to thank you for the debate here today. I don't think this job is that hard anyway. The rapporteur for the Conservatives said that ownership is inviolable. Well, it should be the case that wild animals' rights are inviolable. Then it is a little special to have such a proposal, because it is actually something that I have taken over as a farewell gift from a president, and imagine receiving a gift of four elephants, three sea lions and five zebras and then having to deal with it. However, it is a limited task because it is relatively few animals, and while we have discussed here, I have been texted that the zebras and the sea lions are no longer in Danish circuses. I'm a little puzzled about that. I hope they haven't been sold to foreign circuses. But if they are no longer here, I think it is important that we come up with some solutions where the remaining animals or all the animals are not just sold to other circuses and will have a pitiful life elsewhere. So I think it is central to ensure a solution where it does not just end up in a sale, and I have been informed that if you go into such a phase-out period, it might be quick. I have been told that there is an organisation called World Animal Protection, which has already approached the minister I do not know whether it is the former minister or the current minister and offered their help because they have previously supported a reservation, Elephant Haven in France, with a nice amount of money. So there is sort of a place in France that is designed to take on circus elephants, and if it's just about this task to deal with four elephants that you have to move on, so that you can finish their circus career in a way that allows them to retire well, then I think it's great. This must be a task to solve, and it is not, of course, fair that we are just discussing how many years it will take, but I think that when it is so few animals, it must be reasonable to make a phasing-out plan. I also think it is important for the circus business in Denmark that all parties in the Folketing are critical of whether having wild animals in the circus is something that can continue. And if the answer is that it can't, then I don't think it's very good to have elephants on your program for the tours you have. So I expect us to have a faster phasing-out than what the Left has promised, namely that it should be 3-5 years. I really hope that solutions can be found where this happens much faster and we can come to the conclusion that wild animals in the circus in Denmark are past.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162342	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. I believe that it can be made quite clear exactly what is of wild animals in the circus before you write a report, because you have been texted by the rapporteur that there is still no such thing as what has been discussed here today, and it would probably be very good if the system were to find out before writing the report which animals we are talking about. There is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162405	I can support the President in that. It would be both factual and sensible to do so. I heard the Minister say what the Ministry was informed of, so I choose to lean on it in this context. There were also zebras and sea lions on the list. The proposal here is, of course, with a very, very rapid phasing-out, and I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is also concerned about animal welfare or whether this can be done too quickly. I myself think that the transitional period should then be as short as possible, but I can also be concerned that things can go too fast. Where do animals end up if you shut down after a very short time? So can the rapporteur not have any concerns in this regard? Then we went for a trip first in northern Africa, and now we came to France. Does the rapporteur not have any concerns as to whether animals thus raised and born into the circus world are able to cope with a life in wild and more natural surroundings?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162510	I think it is very important to include the expertise that may be around circus animals and the life that they have been used to, and to find solutions where they have a much freer framework, but still have a contact with people if some of these animals need it, I am quite prepared to listen to the professional knowledge of it. Then it sounds as if some thought has been given in France and it has come to the conclusion that a place which I assume is designed based on the life of these circus elephants and what kind of retirement they are going to have. If it is four elephants, then, frankly, it is a limited challenge, and that must be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162603	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162605	I agree with the limited task, but if there is just one of these four elephants who come to France and have a bad experience, I would have almost said, or it goes bad, it gets bogged down, gets wild in the bad way, I do not think we have solved the task. That's why I just think you should think about it. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether, with the comments that have been made today, the rapporteur will be prepared, together with the other proposers, to draw up a report to resolve this in a fair and balanced manner, as has been suggested earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162643	I am completely open to a good and constructive report which finds the best solution for wild animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162651	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karina Due with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162655	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he has not thought that an excessively rapid phasing-out or an excessively rapid ban could risk ending up in the fact that we have four dead elephants on our desk when we meet in January. Surely none of us can have any interest in that. As far as Elephant Haven is concerned, which is being built up in the south of France, they have given their hands on the fact that they are ready to take the Danish elephants, but we also have to act quickly. So we're also going for a phase-out that goes as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162735	It sounds as if there are some people in France who are working seriously on this, and the offer that is there, I think we should go and see if this is a good way to deal with the problem and solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162752	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162812	The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522162836	Thank you for that, President. We are moving down a little with the platform, so we are approaching the order of magnitude of the animals we want to protect now. But this is definitely no less important; we have to look after the bees. And I would like to start by making that absolutely clear. That is the basis for the proposal here. We have to protect the bees. Therefore, Denmark also generally supported the ban on neonicotinoids for spraying in the open, as proposed by the European Commission. The exemptions for labour funds that we would have liked to have added were justified by a professional assessment by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. But now the ban has been adopted in the EU, and the Danish authorisations for use as morsels for free countries will also be withdrawn. It will also mean a ban on sowing seed stains with neonicotinoids six months after the EU rules come into force. So the question is: Well, should this be a ban that is absolutely as proposed by Enhedslisten or whether in very specific cases it should be possible to grant exemptions for the use of neonicotinoids? I just feel the need to repeat it, and I will probably say it sometimes along the way: I believe that we in Denmark must ensure the conditions of the bees, and there should be no doubt about that. The EU has allowed use in greenhouses and for the picking of seeds where the crop stays in greenhouses throughout its life cycle. I agree that this use does not pose a risk to bees and therefore a ban here is not necessary. I think we need to apply a professional approach to this, so that, with strict derogation practice on the Danish side, we take care to ensure the conditions for the bees and, at the same time, achieve the most gentle efforts in relation to the environment. The Danish EPA has a practice which means that only pesticides that do not pose an unacceptable risk to human health or the environment, including bees, are exempted. Neonicotinoids are required to be used in Denmark without causing a risk to bees. A derogation will be a very specific decision for each application, which is made on the basis of the latest knowledge in relation to alternatives and possible problems in relation to resistance. At the same time, it is to be expected that an EU ban means a greater focus on developing better and less environmentally harmful alternatives, which may reduce the need for exemptions in the longer term. It is also important to look at what is best for the environment. For the vast majority of applications, the alternatives to neonicotinoids represent a higher environmental impact than the use of the neonicotinoids at low doses. The motion for a resolution refers to two studies on neonicotinoids in honey. The Danish EPA estimates that the conditions in the countries in which the two studies have been carried out are not comparable to Danish conditions and that the results are thus not representative of Danish conditions, but that the concentrations found in both studies do not pose a risk to consumers or would harm bees. In the past, the Danish EPA has granted exemptions for the use of neonicotinoids for the treatment of winter oilseed rape, which according to the pesticide rules is only possible if there are no suitable alternative means or methods, including whether there are resistance problems. This assessment is made by the Department of Agroecology at Aarhus University. The Danish EPA will futurely tighten the exemption practice for neonicotinoids by requiring that the subsequent crop during the next growing season should not be attractive to bees, or it should be harvested before flowering. This minimises exposure to bees. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency also examines whether it is possible to develop early warning systems that can predict the need for combating earth fleas. The Danish EPA has not granted an exemption for winter rape this year, but has sent a party consultation with a refusal. The refusal is justified by the fact that, unlike in the past, the Department of Agroecology does not consider that the resistance problems associated with the use of insecticides with pyrethroids are so great in rape soil fleas that there is a need for a derogation. This means that there will be a need for increased spraying with insecticides once the crop has come up. This will increase the environmental impact and will only have a negative effect on pesticide load. But it is based on a professional approach in the board, where the small risk of resistance is crucial. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I agree with the fact that I know it will come back again that we need to protect the bees and that we need to create a good framework and living conditions for the bees. And I am quite confident about the professional assessments, which are the basis for both the Danish exemptions and the authorisations of pesticides. With strict exemption practice on the Danish side, we take care to ensure the conditions for the bees, and at the same time we achieve the most gentle effort in relation to the environment. It is a derogation practice which stresses both whether the existing alternatives cause a greater environmental impact and whether there are problems with resistance. It is a derogation practice which is further tightened by requiring non-attractive activity in the future, you might call it bees for the succeeding crops. Against this background, the government rejects the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163505	Thank you very much, Minister. There are a few brief comments. Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163510	Thank you. It is true that the proposal here has been overtaken a little by reality, because fortunately the European Union has adopted the ban which now means that we are more or less being banned in Denmark, but at the same time we can see that there has been this very routine derogation. We would very much like to see a tighter derogation practice in Denmark, also so tight that it really goes further than what the Minister is proposing from the platform. That is why I really would like to ask about it, because what we all have an interest in in here is, of course, if we could land together something that we could agree on and where we could actually ensure that the tighter derogation practice was also lived out, if that is the case. The Danish Nature Conservation Association points out that this step around the aftercrops that the Minister has mentioned is a very small step, but what you could do was to look at the Swedish model, which the Minister also says you are looking at. But will the Minister be prepared for us to actually commit each other to having the warning model and to having it already come into force from the spring of next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163622	I assume that what the rapporteur is referring to is this warning model in relation to rape earth fleas. We know that such ones come in whole shoe lengths every 5-8. years, but unfortunately we cannot say that they come exactly every 20 years, because then things would be a little easier. If you have the opportunity to create some kind of early warning system, then that is something that can help us along the way. So right now there is no exemption for the use of neonicotinoids in oilseed rape. I think we should sit down and strike a balance between an early warning system on the one hand and an early warning system on the other, but if we do not use the neonicotinoids in oilseed rape anyway and do not need the derogation there, then it may be that it is somewhere else that we should put our energies in. But I am not dismissive of methods where we can learn more about reducing use.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163725	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163729	Thank you. But I am really taking that as an outstretched hand for us to sit together here in committee and see if we can agree on a model that we can all support. But the reason I take it up and that we're so keen on this model is, of course, that we're not interested in this routine exemption. Now the Minister himself mentioned the Department of Agroecology. Michael Kristensen, a lecturer there, says that when the damage occurs only every 6 years, it seems wrong to work with it every year. It is easier for farmers, but if you want to have a good nature, it seems a little silly that it is only every six years you need the poison, but that we put poison in the ground every year. So I would actually just like to ask the Minister to confirm that he is in agreement with the lecturer who says this, and that is why we need to find a tighter practice than the one that is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163822	I would like to start by saying that, in the case of rape, it is a relatively strict practice that no exemptions have been granted at all this year. I think that satisfies any need that may be in that direction. The challenge is that in this area you can't say that it's exactly every six years, it's exactly every seven years. If we had better tools for that, I can see that this is a viable path. I would say, however, that as long as there is no need for dispensation as long as we can see that there are alternatives where we do not have resistance challenges, I think that is the way we should go in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163901	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522163903	Thank you to the Minister for the receipt of our motion for a resolution. I really could not quite understand why the Minister could not support our proposal. And then we were told further down in the speech that this year there will be no exemption to use neonicotinoids in rape cultivation. It was said that no derogations have been granted at this stage, but is it to be understood that no derogations will be granted this year to the rapeseed seed which will be used from about 1 August of this year to sow next year's harvest? And is it to be understood in such a way that the same toxins will not be used to pick up the seed potatoes to be used next year? Is this the strict practice that the Minister has started here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164005	Let me try to be a little more precise: I apologise if I have had to contradict myself, I hope that is not the case. I lean on the academic assessment from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, that is, when you say in the Danish Environmental Protection Agency that you can see that there are alternatives, and you make this weighting of whether the alternatives are more or less stressful to the environment, and whether there are risks of resistance. These are the two basic assessments: are there alternatives and what are the consequences of using them? If you estimate that there are alternatives that you can use under certain conditions, including planting catch crops that are not attractive to the bees, then I lean on it. If you have alternatives you can use, you have to use those alternatives. If you don't have alternatives you can use, given the assumptions I made here, you use the work with neonicotinoids.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164110	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164111	I do not think that was a clear answer, so I would like to hear the Minister: is it the case that this year will not be allowed to use the toxins to pick up the rape seed which is to be sown here around 1 August? That's what's at the heart of this, so we're going to stop using those toxins. And is it the case that it is a new course that has been adopted, also with regard to the labour products used in seed potatoes?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164146	In other words, what I am trying to say is: we have not granted a derogation this year in the case of oilseed rape. This has not been done because it is estimated that the alternatives that can be used are not associated with the risk of resistance. Whether you later, in a year or when it may be, have a different view of it in the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, is a professional assessment which I think we as politicians should lean on. And that is really my answer, so I think we should lean on the professional judgement. We agree on this; we really have to look after these bees, because that's the prerequisite for life on this planet. We all agree on that. And I understand that the easy solution is to say that then we ban everything, but as long as things are used in the right way, there is therefore not this risk associated with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164252	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164253	Thank you. I was aware that the Minister said that it is when it does not pose a risk or if there are no alternatives. I think this is a very good example, which one could turn one's head and say: well, if there is to be a derogation at all for a product such as this or other, which is even banned in the European Union, then it must be done by means of a proper prescription. In other words, we need to monitor this year and not just every six years, whether there is a need at all, and, moreover, we need to do so in a time-limited manner and set very, very strict conditions for what can be grown there afterwards and when it should be done, etc. etc. Could the Minister imagine such a paradigm shift throughout the approach to the granting of derogations so that they are given much more purposefully and in fact only given after a thorough examination of the need and not only given when they do not pose a risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164357-2	I guess the challenge is that with the tools you have today, you can't decide if the need is there before it's too late. Well, we can't say for sure that it's every six years or every seven years, or with what range rape earth fleas are a challenge. If we could do that, then we could make the targeted use that the rapporteur is calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164431	Was the rapporteur on his way? No, the rapporteur was not. We have thus been able to express our thanks to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur's line that we are embarking on, and it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democrat, who is the first in the line.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164500	Thank you. This is a matter that has involved us in the Social Democratic Party a great deal. I hope all colleagues in here have had a really good Pentecostal. On Saturday it was actually the bees' day, and I don't know if you discovered it, but there's an international Red Bees Day that was made last year at the UN, and it's the case that our crowned DR has the canal Ramasjang, which has created the RamasjangRedderne, who are Danish children who can help protect our bees. And that is all very well, but it has happened on a slightly more serious background, because we can see that there are fewer and fewer bees, both honey bees and wild bites, in Denmark. One of the challenges for the bees is that these neonicotinoids are being used in Danish agriculture, and the proposal here today is that Enhedslisten wants to ban them in Danish agriculture from July 2018. We then think that the proposal has somehow been overtaken by reality in the right way, as I said before, namely that we in the European Union have established that there must be a ban on this poison precisely because it is a danger to bees; EFSA has produced a comprehensive report on this on the basis of a large number of studies. This poison affects the bees in even small amounts, and it affects them both in terms of their orientation and in relation to the number of queens. Unfortunately, the government voted against the ban, along with others. Romania and the Czech Republic, which are not exactly known in the European Union for their over-green profile. Now, however, our task in the Chamber today and in the future is to ensure that the ban that has been imposed in the European Union is also enforced. This is a very serious matter. It happens and has been so in recent years that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has routinely granted exemption to use this poison, but we can also see that it is not necessary to use it every year. These big insect attacks, which, to protect your crops, work the crops against, but that's something that happens in a cycle like this every six or seven years. In fact, Aarhus University has just produced a report which shows that, on the basis of Swedish experience, a model could be drawn up, so that in spring you could look at the plants and thus predict whether it would be a year when some of these major attacks would occur, and then you could grant a specific derogation if needed, but as a rule it should be prohibited to use neonicotinoids in Denmark. This is one of the things we have also proposed in our Green Paper on global climate and environmental action. That is why I hope that, in the light of the proposal here and the subsequent committee reading, we can come up with a joint report in which we agree that this ban should apply and that we will have this early warning model, this monitoring, which will start from the spring of next year, so that we can minimise the use of neonicotinoids as much as possible and preferably avoid them.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164829	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164834	Thank you. I can see from the green proposal of the Social Democrats that the Social Democrats propose that neoniks, as in the rest of the European Union, be banned as a starting point in Denmark, and that strict derogation practices be introduced. I think that is a bit bizarre, because I think that prohibition is the simplest thing. If, as the rapporteur referred to, we have a number of experiences with the fact that these toxins are dangerous to bees, why not go for the ban which is the best? And it has to be said that there are some places where you can manage without the toxins; e.g. ecologists can. So I think your swords in the new game are kind of two-edged. So I'd like to hear what's the most important thing. Is it to come up with a ban, or is it just to come up with a tighter derogation practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522164932	Well, it's nice to be able to inform Enhedslisten's rapporteur so that he doesn't have to sit around and be in doubt about our policy. We are in favour of this ban and we think it is important that we protect the Danish bees. However, as has also been said from the platform earlier today, the alternative to this use of neonicotinoids may be to use some pesticides which, firstly, may have some very serious consequences and, secondly, may result in the development of resistance. So I really lean on the fact that the Danish Nature Conservation Association also says that the best model, if you still need to use the substance and avoid major insect attacks, will be that you get such an early warning model a la the Swedish, so that instead of using spray poisons, you monitor already in the spring and thus can predict whether you need to use these substances or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165028	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165029	Well, in relation to the matter of whether or not we need to use the drugs, I have asked some questions about this treatment, where I have been told that banning these drugs could result in an average loss of 25-30 million. kr. a year for those who grow rape. And if you distribute it over the entire area, it's about that. 150 kroner. per acres. It's a profit loss of maybe 12-15 percent. So I don't really acknowledge this, that it's necessary. You can just say that you can come up with a cultivation practice where you can't spray away all the disadvantages. Can the rapporteur not see that a ban is actually something that is achievable without it being a huge cost to agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165118	Yes, but sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen must also acknowledge that if the result is that you just spray much more, it is not a very desirable way to go. So I think we agree that we will have as low a load level in relation to our environment as possible, and there will be a good way to avoid the spraying, to monitor much more, and then, in some exceptional cases, to dispense. But it must be a far stricter practice than the one we have today. It is true that the rapporteur has received some answers. As I could just see, it is not geographically distributed, so it can be a little difficult to say what it will mean for the individual farmer, whether there will be such a huge difference in how hard one will be hit. But that is also why I am proposing, and I hope that we can have a joint report on this, so that we can take a step towards an even stricter practice as soon as possible than that proposed by the Minister in relation to this warning model.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165216	With that, we thank Mrs Lea Wermelin. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165225	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, the proposal concerns the introduction of a ban on the use of, I do not think I will even say that long word, so should we not call it neo-niques or something like that? It's fine. At first glance, I think we are all prepared to do something, so that of course we have bees. I am very much in line with our minister that it is important to preserve the bees, to have the bees and so on. It is also my very clear impression that we have an Environmental Protection Agency in Denmark that goes in and makes an assessment of whether you can use it here in a proper way, so that it does not harm the bees, and it is my clear impression that where you can use these substances, namely in greenhouses, it is safe operation, as it is called, and that sometimes you get the opportunity to pick up the seeds and use them in this way, and that it should also be safe operation in relation to the bees and, of course, also in relation to people. It is not my impression that just per. automatic dispensation takes place on a routine basis. Now I've heard it sometimes, but that's actually not the impression I have. I have the impression that an assessment is being made and then it may well be that a derogation is being granted for a few years in a row in relation to rape, but it is also my impression that it is a practice that you want to tighten up on that I have heard the Minister say and that every time an exemption is granted you will find out whether it is possible to use something else. Now it is just two proposals since we discussed pesticides in drinking water, which is why I really think it is very good to have this discussion too. Because sometimes it may be that you are interested in banning some substances, but where the alternatives are worse, or sometimes even unknown, you can say because we do not know about the substances you then want to use. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that we make sure that things are done as well as possible. If we have supported the government in both the mandate for the committee case and also support the refusal in this matter, it is because we do not think there is an alternative and we believe that as long as we tighten up the practice, that is good enough. So from this point of view, we reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165503	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165508	Thank you. After all, politics is full of dilemmas, and it has to be said that with the way agriculture is operated in Denmark, the negative side is that there is some flora and fauna that is in decline. I find it deeply alarming that so many wild bees are in such a violent decline, and it is so difficult to have an exact figure on it. You have the most numbers on it when a species is completely extinct. Then it is gone, and then you may have some more precise figures from the beekeepers who have the honeybee and who, after all, record the bee death that is every year. It has to be said that there is therefore some bee death which can have many causes and where it is natural to go in and see that the poisons used in agriculture, which are toxic to bees, have a negative effect. For the one thing, if there are alternatives: when I look at these answers to the economy, there's actually an alternative that says: Don't use these neoniks I'm aware that it's an English word, but you can choose to use it, and it's for pronouncing there's an alternative, so don't use it. Then you have an increased risk of profit losses, but that is it, and then there is a chance that the bees will survive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165624	It is also my very clear impression that, of course, you can avoid cultivating some things in the field and cultivating something else, where you don't have to use this. You can do it. But I actually think it's very good that we have an agriculture that can make sure that we sometimes get something to eat, both meat, but also cereals, etc. etc. I am very pleased about that, which is why, as I said earlier today, I think it is actually a good idea to look at both the environment and agriculture. You can have a co-existence that takes account of a profession, but also takes account of an environment, and that can go together. I think you can do that, and I think we are good at it in Denmark. When it comes to bees, there's a risk of bees with these products. We know that and that's also why the quantities that we allow in Denmark are considerably smaller than they have been allowed in the past, but that we only allow them in greenhouses where the bees do not come in so often. It is also my impression that a much tighter exemption practice is being proposed in relation to this work on seeds. I think that is a good thing, rather than saying that we should not do so at all, and that we would then have to spray something more in the fields with a different risk of groundwater and discharge, etc. So in this way I think this is a way of dealing with a problem which I consider to be safe and which I certainly have no reason to doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165811	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165812	I think there is reason to doubt it when you see that wild species die out and are in decline and there is reason to be concerned. If you look at what the Danish Environmental Protection Agency published last April 25, you can actually see that they come to the conclusion that a risk of bees cannot be rejected based on an overall assessment. So you have seen some recommendations that say there's a risk of this. So there is not a risk that is down to zero, but we have a risk if we continue to allow neoniks to be used in Danish production.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165848	However, as I said, I consider the risk to be very low, and that is also what I believe the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is saying. They say: we grant a derogation in which we consider it to be safe operation, so that there is to be harvested in certain ways, and that you are not allowed to work several years in a row, and you have to have something else in the fields and reap before the flowers come on. That is how I have seen it, and that is why I consider it actually with the way we are dealing with it now and with the tighter practice that the Minister has also put forward, that there will be safe operation. But I would also like to say in relation to these bees that die, that before this was used there has been a great bee mortality in the winter. I do not know the reason for this, I simply do not have professional knowledge of it, but it is just to say that although it is not okay, there may also be other causes of bee death.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165947	We thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. So we're actually ready to receive sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left, on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522165953	Thank you. In the Left too, we fully agree that we must, of course, take good care of the bees and protect them, and I think we are all interested in that. We are doing so, and as has just been mentioned, an EU ban on the use of neonicotinoids in the open country has already been adopted at EU level, and, as the Minister has just explained, the current restrictive authorisation system will in future be dealt with in a rigid form in which no authorisation or exemption is granted for pesticides which pose an unacceptable risk to human health or the environment, including bees. The derogation will be a very specific decision at each application, which will be made on the basis of the latest knowledge in relation to alternatives and possible problems of resistance. In this way, we think there is a sensible line in this, so that we can continue to take good care of the bees, and that is why the motion for a resolution is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170110	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170115	This means that the rapporteur of the Left supports the fact that there will now be a tighter practice than has been authorised in Denmark since 2013, where a derogation has been granted each year so that neoniks could be used in the Danish oilseed cultivation; and that we now have the prospect that seed seed will be used on the other side of the summer, which is not covered by neoniks. Is this a tightening-up that the rapporteur of the Left supports?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170148	Well, I have just explained what the Left's line is: to support the statement just made by the Minister that exemption practices are being tightened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170200	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170203	There are times when you hear the rapporteur from the Left, where it is as if everything is going well in agriculture. Now it is said that we must look after the bees. Yes, but we are in a situation where 50 of the wild bee species have disappeared. We are down to 288 species, and these are sort of invisible creatures, but they are incredibly important for pollination, both in our nature and in our gardens and in agriculture, and they represent a huge value that one will all too easily overlook. Does the rapporteur not see that it is a step backwards that so many wild bees have been wiped out in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170239	But we all agree that we in the Left should take good care of the bees and protect them. That is also why, in this way, exemption practices are being followed up and, as is now the case, the restrictive exemption practice described by the Minister and which, of course, I support.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170257	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170300	Thank you. I would actually like to ask a few questions on the basis of what the proposer is asking, because, as I have said, we want a strict model. And we would also really like to continue working on this warning model, where you look at the rapeseed fleas and look at the plants already in the spring and in this way can help to predict whether we can completely avoid granting these derogations. But, like a better tool, if we are to have the possibility of not granting exemptions, we must also be able to do so. So I would actually just like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of the Swedish model and whether the rapporteur thinks that this is the way to go if we are to tighten up further on exemption practices.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170345	But in the environmental and food sectors and in agriculture there has always been a constant development of methods and techniques over the past 100 years, and new knowledge has been created. I know there is not a fully developed early warning system, but if such a system were to be developed along the way, it would help to provide the best possible information, and one can only welcome it if it was once in place. What it is all about overall, now and here, is that you have taken a position on things, as I have explained a few times. It is now being tightened up on derogation practices and put in an appropriate restrictive line, as the Minister has explained, and it is therefore gratifying if there is broad support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170428	Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170431	Then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is really concerned. Because it is true that when we can say that the number of bees is falling, there are different beekeepers and others who have stood up and said: we can see that there are these empty hives and we are concerned about that development. Does the rapporteur share that concern? And following on from the fact that the rapporteur says that new techniques always come and that we have to look at it then, I would say that some of them are also politically determined, namely whether we want to develop an early warning model. It is not something that falls from the sky, so somehow it is something that we must politically agree with each other if that is the way we want to go. So can the rapporteur not elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170515	Well, there I can refer to what I said in my little rapporteur's speech, namely that we also care a great deal about the bees. We must take good care of them, and I have now said this 3-4 times in the course of these answers. That's what we have to do, and I hear everyone says it too. I don't hear anyone say the opposite. We are all agreed that we must take good care of the bees, and we are dealing with this in the specific situation now by also tightening up the derogation practice, as the Minister has explained. And I think it is welcome if there is broad support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170543	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170551	Thank you. Bees are basically the symbol of all good things. The industrious little insects fly from flower to flower, from plant to plant, collect nectar, and, as a side effect, pollinate the plant. Now there is something that suggests that in several ways the essential work that bees do is at risk due to the use of neonicotinoids. Of course, it attracts my attention and the attention of many others, not least the farmers, because they benefit from both the hard work of the bees, but also benefit from the effects of the neonicotinoids. Therefore, when we consider a motion for a resolution such as B 134 on the complete ban on the use of neonicotinoids, we must also place great emphasis on professionalism, especially when discussing the impact of these specific substances on the environment. An absolute ban, as Enhedslisten proposes, is, in my view, too rigid. Of course, as far as possible, we must limit the use of neonicotinoids and pesticides in general and specifically where this has an unnecessary negative impact on the environment and on animal and insect life. But only when the actual Danish use actually has an unnecessarily harmful effect on e.g. Bees and the environment more generally, otherwise we might actually increase the spray load just then with other substances. Therefore, the strict exemption practice already applied by the Danish EPA is the right way to go. However, in the optics of mine and the Liberal Alliance, much more concrete research is needed here on application after Danish conditions and Danish application. In this way, we will ensure the professionalism needed to find the best and most gentle work for the environment and for the diligent bees, and that is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the specific resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170824	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170827	The rapporteur says that more research is needed. Are we going to do research so long that the last wild bee is dead and we can come to the conclusion that no, it has no harmful effect on the wild bees, for they are all dead? So there must also be a precautionary principle which must benefit the bees. However, the rapporteur is now calling for professionalism, and there are, in this case, various documents, among others. a note from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, dealing with winter rape and the spray poisons that have been used to stain the winter rape, and so there is one remedy that has been handled with 25 g per day. hectares from 2015 to 2017 and it is concluded that a risk to bees cannot be rejected at 20 g per year. acres of this toxin for the picking of rape, and this means that it cannot be denied that there is a risk of the Danish derogation for the picking of winter rape with this poison. So there is such an assessment, and it is perhaps part of what has been done that we are not granting a derogation this year, and I think that is most welcome. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that we have now come to the conclusion that there is a professional basis for the practice that has been carried out over the last four years of winter rape not to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522170945	Just as I am not an animal welfare expert or expert in all sorts of other areas, I am also not an expert in relation to neonicotinoids, and I am actually pleased that there seems to be an updated knowledge base now. That's what we always have to deal with these exemptions and permits on the basis of, that is, the latest and most up-to-date knowledge base. And it so obviously says that it might have an effect with this work. We have to deal with that, and that is what the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has done. And it is of course the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which in this context we are setting out to provide for a derogation, and they have found the conditions to be such in relation to the latest updated knowledge that it has not been permissible to grant a derogation. That's what I'm dealing with in this context... let the experts speak on the basis of the latest and most up-to-date knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171043	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171046	But that is the danger, if you do not want to give nature the benefit of the doubt that then you have to wait for some experts to come to the conclusion that what has so probably gone wrong for several years can be documented, that is why it has gone wrong. I think that is a wrong approach. I simply think that our natural values should be given greater weight. And when we are dealing with something where the pollination value of wild and domesticated bees is so massive, far greater than what you get extra from using these toxins, does the rapporteur not see that there is a dilemma in constantly waiting for some professional, what is to be said, evidence that something particular can be analysed to be right?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171135	The rapporteur certainly sees the dilemma, and there are dilemmas in all research. And especially when you, as a politician, have to make decisions on the basis of research and on the basis of the latest knowledge, there will always be a dilemma, and that is also in this situation. What this is about for me, and what it is about for the Liberal Alliance, is a balance between the consideration of the agricultural industry, which is a very large part of Danish society, and the consideration of the industrious bees, which we certainly also have to take into account, and which agriculture has a great deal to do with taking into account and caring for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171215	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171218	I also noticed that the rapporteur was talking about this with the knowledge base. The minister said this about the possibility of spraying with these pyrethorides, but that it can also pose a problem and that there may also be a resistance problem associated with it. The challenge is that if you can't spray and there's no professional basis to assess such a derogation, because you don't do that monitoring and make an alert, like this report from Aarhus University. If you have said so, you do not have a very good knowledge base. That is also why I would like to ask the rapporteur if it would not be wise to start now by saying that we need a better alert model, so that we have a better knowledge base from which the Danish Environmental Protection Agency can decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171309	I certainly also believe that in my rapporteur's speech I actually wanted more knowledge and more research into precise Danish application and Danish conditions. The Social Democrat rapporteur has repeatedly referred to an early warning system, perhaps a Swedish model or something like that. I have to admit, I'm not an expert on this, but it sounds interesting. And as in all other areas, we need to be inspired by and update our knowledge also from our neighbouring countries and constantly draw political conclusions and make decisions based on the latest and most up-to-date knowledge. So it would be very useful if the Social Democrat rapporteur could pass on information about the so-called Swedish model in future committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171400	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171402	I'd really like that. I have the report from Aarhus University here. I think it is a good thing that we are informed during the committee work, but I also think that we need the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to be on the best possible professional basis and, as it is now, there is no possibility of predicting the major insect attacks that have been experienced in Sweden. So I would like to take the initiative of the rapporteur to be inspired by the good Swedish Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171437	That is a good thing, and it is really what we have the committee's work to do, namely to raise the level of knowledge of the rapporteurs. So I'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171445	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171452	Thank you. After all, it is a wonderful thing to be allowed to go in this Chamber when you are a substitute for our Environment rapporteur. First the wild animals in the circus, and now the wild animals in the wild, the bees. As Mrs Lea Wermelin said, it was international side day this weekend, and it is fantastic with the focus that has actually been put on the bees in recent years. It's starting to dawn on all of us how important they are to our lives. After all, it is also fantastic to stand here with a case where the EU has almost overtaken itself Enhedslisten with the ban that was voted through in the EU without the support of Denmark, because we stood with our close allies in Romania and the Czech Republic and said no to this ban. We think that in these cases, when we talk about something so important for our entire biodiversity and our nature and our lives as bees, we need an extremely high precautionary principle. That is what the European Union has chosen to do, and that is, of course, what we on the Danish side should not just take verbatim, but we must also take the intention of banning it. That is why I am pleased to say that the alternative, of course, strongly supports this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171619	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then the next in line is actually Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522171638	Thank you for a good proposal that we support. Bees are essential to life on earth, and therefore it is an important matter to protect the bees that are under pressure. Now, of course, the Member States of the European Union have in the meantime adopted a ban on the use of neoniks, to which I choose to shorten it, as it is easier to pronounce, outdoors, and it should be expected that all countries would follow the ban. It is to be hoped that in this matter the new Minister for the Environment or the Minister for Food will take seriously his statements that he is Minister for the Environment before he is Minister for Food, because the Minister for the Environment will have no better cause to show it. Of course, the Minister for Food can choose to invoke the disaster article of the directive and grant exemptions as his predecessor, but he is hardly allowed to do so year after year, because the Minister for Food cannot claim that the Danish dosages are smaller than those used elsewhere, because the ban does not allow for such exceptions at all. The Minister's predecessor replied to committee questions No. 532 on 9 April: It is currently being examined whether it will be possible to require monitoring/warning in the spring as a condition for a derogation for the work on winter oilseed rape. And I quote again: "Rapsjord fleas seem to appear in bicycles, where the incidence in Denmark peaked in 1992, 2000 and 2008.· We can therefore get quite a long way with good farming practice if there is a willingness to tighten up the scope for exemption. It seems that we also lack knowledge in order to be able to grant a derogation, in any case the Minister's predecessor refers in his reply to Question No. 531 last month to the Danish EPA who writes: There are currently no measurements from Denmark of concentrations of neonicotinoids in either crops or weeds. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency has included this topic in the latest publication on research funding. We already know that the substance is difficult to break down in soil and that it will therefore occur in the crops in subsequent years, and that means restrictions on which crops can be grown afterwards. A condition for granting derogation should be that the crop is harvested before it sets flower and attracts bees and other insects. How do you do it in practice with rape? All those yellow flowers out there must be very attractive to bees and insects. Only the picking of winter rape could be authorised, and the Danish EPA says that when you sow the crop in the autumn, it takes a long time before the bees draw on the crops in the spring, where the rape blossoms. When the work is done in winter, part of the drugs will be broken down by spring. But how does the board know when there are no measurements from Denmark of the concentration of neoniks in neither crops nor weeds, and the part that is not broken down is harmful to bees? There are a large number of questions which are somewhat unanswered in it, and the Minister said in his speech that no derogation has been granted this year, as I understood it, but it is not clear whether this means that the oilseed rape that is out there right now is not the work, because I suppose it is the exemptions granted last year. So summa summarum, we think it is a very good proposal, because we do believe that Denmark should have fully supported the ban that the European Union had, rather than going into alliance with countries with which we do not usually compare, and that, if we want to grant exemptions in this area, it should at least be a much more restrictive derogation practice. Will it have consequences? Yes, it may be, but nature limits what we can grow if it is to happen without the risk of pollinators.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522172052	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. And then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522172102	Thank you. As the rapporteur of the Alternative also said, we are getting around the Chamber today, from the large elephants to the small bees. I think it has been interesting to follow the debate over the last hour. These neonicotinoids I also think I will choose to call neoniks thanks for the good advice of Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Although I would like to help protect the Danish language, I must admit that having to pronounce it can almost deter me from interfering in the debate alone. It is incredibly important that we ensure good conditions for our bees. Several other rapporteurs have also mentioned how they play a completely crucial role for our entire system, for the whole green cohesion, and therefore it is crucial that we ensure proper conditions for the bees. But I must admit that when I have listened to the debate over the last hour, I have also realised a little how complex this is. I must also admit that I do not feel quite as an expert in any way in this area. That is why I am also a little in the situation that I am going to support some of the assessments I have received from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which is that there may be situations where it makes better sense to allow the use of neoniks than the alternatives that would come instead of where there may be a need to spray several times, and that overall it can lead to a greater environmental impact. I have also been a health rapporteur at one time, in which we also sometimes had to deal with some cases, to which it had to be said that there was a need to lean on the recommendations that came from the Danish Health Service because there were some experts who had the deepest insight into those things. I guess I feel the same way about this. However, it is clear that we must ensure that derogation practices that we have in Denmark are as strict as possible. Listening to the debate today seems to me as if you have not had it so far, but I think it sounds very good to the Minister that this is being tightened up so as to ensure that this derogation is only given in cases where it is really the only alternative where it is not considered that there are other reasonable options and that choosing alternatives can lead to a higher spray load. So we're following this from the Conservative People's Party in terms of what's being done by research, what comes of recommendations in this area. The aim must be to protect the bees, but on the other hand we must also be careful not to ban in an easy turn that can actually lead to a higher spray load, because none of us are interested in that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522172349	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, who is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522172405	Thank you. I also think that the other day was a happy day, when it was the bees' day, and when the focus was on the extent to which our society is deeply dependent on the pollinators, who may not be noticed, but who are of immense importance to our natural basis, is of great importance to the fruits that we can soon pick in our gardens. If there were no pollinators, there would be far fewer strawberries to pick here shortly. And then we have an agriculture that is also deeply dependent on pollinators, both the pollinators, who are wild bees and other wild insects, and who are the honey bees that are kept as a kind of domestic animal. I think it has also been a little gratifying to hear the Minister's reception of this proposal, because as I understand it, this year there will be no exemption for the use of neonicotinoids, let us just call it neoniks, to work out the rape seed that is to be sown this year. I had some doubts when the Minister gave his speech, if I had heard correctly, because it might have been because it was a little clumsy, but it could also be because I was a little surprised, and that is the kind of thing we can get quite clearly in a committee procedure, that is to say whether this is really the case, and whether there are also some starting signs that we will be different when it comes to dealing with applications for the work of seed potatoes, and whether there will also be a tightening up. This is therefore important for the plants we have in agriculture, which get flowers and where bees come and pollinate where there can be a negative effect. As a prelude to today's debate on the Enhedslisten resolution, we have asked some questions, and I really think it was very interesting to know that if you do not use this neoniks, you would have an estimate that it would have economic consequences of 25-30 million. kr. In terms of production losses, and when you quickly distribute the 177,000 hectares of rapeseed, which is about grown in Denmark, we are at a loss of between 140 and 170 DKK. per acres. Is it that much? No, it's not really. I have also asked another question where it came to light that if you look at it over a 5-year period, there has been a contribution to rape cultivation of DKK 1,138. on average, and it would then go down by 12% to 15% if it were the case that neoniks are not used. This is how to deal with less profit if you use less poison. So, is this a big amount of money? I don't really think it is. If you look at the long track, the European Commission has been able to estimate what the value of the pollination of Danish agriculture by bees is, and it is both the wild and the tame bees, and there it has been calculated in some way that it amounts to between 1.8 and 3 billion. kr. a year. It is a large amount and is distributed over the entire agricultural area of 2.4 million. ha, we come to the conclusion that the pollination of bees has a value for agriculture of between 750 and 1,250 DKK. per acres. That is, of course, the amount which is the large and important amount. I am well aware that there are some who come to the conclusion that it is a small amount, but even if you choose another amount, which has been mentioned, that it is only one billion that pollination has value, we still come away to the conclusion that the pollination of bees just for agriculture has a higher value than what you can lose by the fact that neonics are no longer used as a morsel on our rape fields. Then there is everything besides: what it has of value in our nature, that there are pollinators, what it has of value in all the private gardens, that fruit and berries are grown in such a way, and that there is a joy about it. I think that there is every reason to tighten up and the practice in Denmark of granting exemptions since 2013 to toxic substances which have been banned in the European Union is actually quite thought-provoking. In the European Union, we have then started to assess some derogations granted in other countries, and I think it is really a pity that we have not also started to examine the derogations granted in Denmark since 2013. I think that would be appropriate. Then, in today's debate, as in the past, the emphasis has been placed on the need to take account of the agricultural industry and the need for some experts to be consulted. And I think it is such that those who are experts in registering that there will be fewer wild bees are heard to a lesser extent than the experts who are trying to count together, that it does not have negative effects if you use these bee-killing poisons in our agriculture. I think there is good reason to come up with a much more cautious practice when it comes to dealing with toxic substances used in agriculture. When the wild bees are in such a rapid decline, and when you experience a very high winter mortality rate, which sometimes also has its causes in how the weather has been, but which cannot be fully explained, there is good reason to be deeply concerned, also from the figures I mentioned just now, about how dependent we are on the fact that we have pollinators in our nature, in our gardens and in our agriculture. I welcome the fact that we are now entering a new practice. This is a matter in which the new Minister has had the opportunity and has the opportunity to show and prove whether he prioritises the environment rather than agricultural considerations and something higher than the former Minister for the Environment and Food. I look forward to following that. People should not be judged on a single matter, and there will certainly be a series of environmental and agricultural matters in which we can make the overall assessment so that we can write history on a good basis. But this is an important matter in which the Minister has the opportunity to make some right choices. So I would like to thank the Alternative and the SF for supporting the proposal. I would like to thank the Social Democrats for being so far in a process and so positive that a ban may be necessary and that there could be another majority in the not so distant future that could be used to make good decisions. And then I would like to thank all the parties that have shown interest in this problem by asking quite a lot of questions, including to the former minister. I sense that there are several parties who see this as a serious problem, and that gives reason to hope that at some point there could be a majority in the Folketing, which would be very restrictive of the use of bee poisons in our agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522173144	Thank you very much. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522173230	The debate is open. Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522173245	The Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution on a Danish ban model which will mean that the authorities must always refuse the export of dual use products if exports are to countries characterised by serious human rights violations. According to the motion for a resolution, the ban should apply to dual use products where there is a risk that they may be used for or in connection with serious violations of human rights, such as: surveillance technology. I would like to start by emphasising that the government agrees that it is important to ensure that Danish exports of e.g. surveillance products are not abused by oppressive regimes to commit human rights violations. However, the Government does not consider it appropriate or necessary to have a genuine national ban model as proposed by Enhedslisten. Firstly, this is because the proposal will lead to an unmanageable procedure, which does not take into account the fact that, of course, the specific aspects of each export application and the fact that dual use products are typically exported for legitimate purposes. Secondly, we already have an effective and restrictive administration in the field of export controls in accordance with the criteria set out in the EU's common dual use regulations. I myself, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a previous committee response to a closed consultation in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in August 2017, have provided information on the criteria and procedure underlying the Erhvervsstyrelsen's assessment of whether an export application should be authorised or refused. In brief, the Danish Business Administration hears Police Intelligence and Defence Intelligence about critical information about the recipient and end-user of the products. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be consulted where foreign and security policy interests are deemed to be important or where the end-user is a military authority or a state security unit, including a law enforcement authority, a ministry, etc. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' assessment shall be carried out, inter alia: on the basis of the eight EU criteria for arms exports, including respect for human rights. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs estimates that there are grounds for opposing specific exports, such as: that there is a clear risk that exports will contribute to internal repression, persecution or serious violations of international humanitarian law, the Business Authority will follow that recommendation and refuse export. Thirdly, the Government's position is that measures in the dual-use area should be coordinated at EU level if export control rules are to have an effect. This ensures a level playing field and that companies cannot choose to relocate production to other countries with less restrictive rules. The whole dual-use set of rules is currently under negotiation and the Commission's proposals include: aim to strengthen the control of surveillance equipment in order to prevent the use of products in human rights violations. The government is in favour of the Commission's proposal, as human rights are much more directly addressed in the future regulation. It is my expectation that the Council will soon reach agreement so that the Council can begin its negotiations with the European Parliament in the autumn. At national level, as I have said, the government is working to support EU regulation through robust and effective case handling procedures. It is an ongoing process in which we, among other things, are involved. have implemented a new end-user declaration ensuring that military end-users, security forces and enforcement authorities are required to sign that the specific dual-use product is not abused for human rights violations. Contrary to the authors of the motion, I believe that the demand sends a strong signal that human rights concerns are given very high weight in Denmark. In addition, the government is also looking at the possibility of a legislative proposal to ensure greater involvement of corporate management in export applications for cyber surveillance products. This can ensure that the management stands for each application for export of this type of product, i.e.: technology that can be used to monitor e.g. Internet traffic or mobile telephony where monitoring equipment is a wider product category covering, for example: drones and cameras. We are, of course, working to ensure that the draft law leads to the least possible administrative burden for businesses. Finally, in the cyber and information security strategy, the government has also put extra emphasis on increased control of cyber surveillance equipment. The strategy must strengthen control through clear rules and competent guidance from the authorities. This will ensure that Danish companies are able to navigate within the rules and ensure that Danish developed technology does not fall into the wrong hands. For the reasons I have just outlined, therefore, the government cannot support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522173734	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522173738	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. The Minister says that if this proposal is adopted, we will have an unmanageable procedure. What the proposal proposes to do is to create a situation that actually existed before the change made under the former SR government in 2014. In fact, there was a de facto blacklisting of countries that grossly violated human rights. This was then changed and then carried out the treatment described by the Minister and, among other things, by the Minister. As a result, surveillance equipment has been exported to Saudi Arabia and Qatar, for example, which are countries which grossly violate human rights. I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister thinks it reasonable that Denmark should allow exports of surveillance equipment to Saudi Arabia, for example, or Qatar, which is guilty of serious human rights violations, knowing, for example, that Amnesty warns against this equipment being used to suppress the democratic opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522173851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522173855	My general view is that, of course, we should not export goods that can be used for human rights violations, for monitoring, for breaches of ordinary rights in society. That is why we have a sensible system that safeguards against it. That's why we have a dual use regulation, and that's why we have the export control system. That means, for example, that we have to do something about it. can export other technologies; it may be pumps to the countries concerned. And I think that we are really well covered, so that we have a ban on exporting if it is used for violations, but that we do not have a ban if it is common technology that can be used by the country, also for the benefit of the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522173940	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522173941	Well, thank you. So it can be said that what you had before the 2014 change was actually that no surveillance equipment, for example, was exported to Saudi Arabia or Qatar. Then the rules have been changed, and now the reality is that we see this happening at the latest under the current government, the export licence to Qatar has been extended to the year 2019. So I would just like to hear from the Minister for Business whether it is really wise to export surveillance equipment to the Emir in Qatar, which we know is grossly oppressing its own people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174017	Yes, it is wise if we now have the approach mechanism we have, i.e. that we have a dual-use regulation, we have an export control system which means that we ensure that it is not used for violations. We cannot have a situation in which we say that there are some systems we do not like, and there are some systems we like, because there are over 200 countries in the world, because then there may be three quarters of the world's countries to which we cannot export our goods. That is why we insist that we have an efficient, fine-meshed network in which we make sure that it does not go to violations. And that means you can export surveillance technologies if they are not used for violations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174054	Thank you, Minister. We are embarking on the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174101	Thank you, President. Thanks to Enhedslisten for focusing on the problem of ensuring that dual use equipment is not used to violate human rights in the countries to which Danish companies export goods. Let me make it clear: dual use products are a dilemma. On the one hand, there is a perfectly legitimate use of the product, which does not give rise to a single lifted eyebrow on the part of the Social Democratic Party, but only a broad smile over the good Danish jobs that the export of it can create here in Denmark. On the other hand, there may be another use option of the product, which means that if it falls into the wrong hands, it can be used to monitor and suppress people. And it is in connection with the last possibility of application that we in the Social Democratic Party are fully committed to ensuring that Danish companies do not export dual use products to the wrong recipients. A few years ago, unfortunately, we saw that the Danish approval procedures were not good enough, and that is why Danish companies exported products that we in the Social Democratic Party are very sceptical about. That is why we believe that it must be ensured today and in the future that there are thorough procedures and good regulatory control to ensure that Danish companies that receive orders from people, companies and authorities in countries where it may potentially lead to the wrong use of the product do not export goods to them. I think it is important to repeat that we actually have good control in this area today. For example: it is the responsibility of companies to assess whether the product is covered by the export control rules and to assess whether their product meets the technical parameters on the EU control list and then determine whether the product requires authorisation for export. And if an exporter is in doubt, you can contact the Danish Business Authority, which can then again draw on knowledge from the defence. If there are companies exporting without the necessary authorisation, then there is an infringement of the law and therefore, depending on the infringement, there are a number of different penalties. It may be from an indictment to an actual police report, where the sentence may be as much as six years in prison under aggravated circumstances. In other words, those in companies who decide on exports have at least a motivational factor for not selling to some countries and recipients who want to use their products to suppress human rights. On the authority side, the Danish Business Authority has to follow the EU's dual-use export control regulation, which contains a number of considerations to be assessed when deciding whether to grant authorisation or refuse. When companies apply for permission from the Business Administration, other authorities, as the Minister also mentioned, namely the Defence Intelligence Service and the Police Intelligence Service, are involved in examining whether there is any critical information about the recipients and end-users who will enter into a trade. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also involved when there are foreign policy or security policy interests that can play a special role, or in the case of end-users who are of general concern. If it is the case that these authorities consider that there may be problems, then the Danish Business Authority will reject the application. So it is the case with such public systems and control measures that we must, of course, constantly check whether we can do better in Denmark and, as I said at the outset, there have been some problems with the scheme here a few years ago, so we very much welcome the fact that, as the Minister said in his speech, the government also announces new measures to tighten up these control options. This is true, for example. the possibilities to ensure that corporate management is more closely involved in and can be held responsible for each application and export of cyber-monitoring products. Finally, it is also worth mentioning that Denmark is today one of the few EU countries that has implemented the end-user declaration, which companies must submit together with an export application. So Denmark has taken a further step here to integrate the human rights aspect into the plan. At EU level, the European Commission's proposal for a new dual-use regulation is also under way. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the Committee on European Affairs, the Danish position on monitoring equipment is that it is important with this regulation to ensure that exports of equipment are not misused to violate human rights. We in the Social Democratic Party generally believe that uniform EU rules are important, because otherwise companies will simply move their production to countries with weaker export controls, and we will be on the same page. So we welcome an update of the regulation. Finally, I can say that the Social Democratic Party can, of course, support the intentions of the proposal to prevent this equipment from coming into the wrong hands, but we do think it is too drastic a step to take with a definite ban, bearing in mind that there are already good control measures which, in the future, seem to be even more delicate. So, unfortunately, the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174621	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174624	Thank you. I am sorry that the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal, and I must also say that I am a little puzzled by the Socialist rapporteur's speech. First of all, the rapporteur says that there was a change in the rules that was inappropriate and then the rapporteur says that the rules are fully adequate. With the exception of the end-user declaration, the rules have in no way been changed since the change in 2014, which I assume was the one the rapporteur thought was inappropriate. So I should just like to understand what the rapporteur thinks: that is, when it is the case today that you can export to Saudi Arabia and Qatar, which was the result of the change made under the previous government, is that appropriate or inappropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174716	It is appropriate to be able to export to companies and end-users in all countries of the world if it is a sensible purpose for which the product is to be used. That is why we are not going to agree to a ban either, because there may be quite legitimate purposes in exporting some products to these different countries. However, in relation to the control measure which I also sense has been thoroughly shaken up in recent years, after we have seen some cases which are certainly not some that we support in the Social Democratic Party, it is my clear impression that we are now following all control measures and ensuring that if there are some end-users with whom there are problems, then we will reject an export application.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174800	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174802	Well, sorry, the situation is that the rules of the former Socialist and radical government were severely weakened. Since then, the rules have not been substantially changed at all, and now the Socialist rapporteur says that those rules are sufficient. It doesn't add up. So you now have a situation where you can export to Saudi Arabia, to Qatar, and we have seen the former Minister of Business Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen is deeply sceptical about this export, but the Social Democrats believe that the rules are quite right and that we should still be able to export to these countries. Is that really the position of social democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174846	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174847	I believe that we must distinguish between rules and administrative procedures. It is quite true that under the former SR government there have been some cases in which the ministers responsible have subsequently found out that something has happened in their area that they have not had a knowledge of where the administrative procedures have done, that some things have been done that we certainly do not support. We must distinguish between rules and how they are administered according to the rules, and I am quite convinced that, after these matters have been raised, the systems have also begun to be more strict in their administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174924	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen. And we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522174932	When it comes to the export of products that can be used for both military and civil purposes, the Danish Business Authority is responsible for the control. It is that the exporter can only export his goods once the end-user has signed that the product will not be used to violate human rights. That is not good enough, the authors of this motion for a resolution think, because anyone can sign such a declaration and yet use the products for ugly purposes, such as repression or monitoring of their own people. That is why we should be better at controlling or shutting down exports. The argument is clear, but the consequences of control or ban are just not right. It is unrealistic and wrong to carry out checks on business practices and barns in other countries. Thus, the sovereignty of the countries is abolished, so that the way of control is simply not possible. It is also not possible to simply ban exports because we will then lose revenue. We therefore have not so many other ways to go than the one that is working today, if we want to avoid that Danish products are used for things that we do not like. The Danish People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175046	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175049	Thank you. It is not that we have no way of going. In other words, we can adopt this resolution so that we can ensure that exports of, for example, are not made. surveillance equipment for a religiously founded dictatorship such as Saudi Arabia or the dictatorship of Qatar. We have an opportunity to do that. After all, it is only a question of political will. Therefore, I would just like to hear: Does the Danish People's Party mean that it is fine that the King of Saudi Arabia gets easier to suppress his own people if he gets surveillance equipment from Denmark? And does the Danish People's Party think that it is fine that the emir in Qatar does the same thing, that is to say, is given the opportunity to get surveillance equipment from Denmark that he can use to suppress his own people with? Is this really a sensible policy according to the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175146	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175147	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, going in and controlling companies in foreign countries which are subject to different legislation is the complete abolition of sovereignty. Then we no longer have the Westfalse world order. It is not acceptable, just as it is not pretty to see that some countries behave badly towards their own peoples and towards other peoples, it is really, really, really unpleasant. But it is now the case that individual countries have the opportunity to adapt as they please. I would also get really tired of it if Saudi Arabia came and decided how women should dress in Denmark, because they think that we did something wrong, or that you could only sell certain products, or whatever you could interfere in, in Denmark. So it's not a road that we think you can go. If you have the political will, yes, then you can do it, but that is just not right, because it will have some consequences that we do not want, such as our own sovereignty being challenged as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175253	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175254	Thank you. Well, there are many of us who are quite happy that a great deal has happened in the world since the West Bank Peace was concluded at some point in the 1600s. Among other things: After all, there has been a UN declaration on human rights, and that is what makes it possible for us to have a strong basis for criticising what is happening in Saudi Arabia. But just to understand the rapporteur: the Danish People's Party thinks it is quite fine that there is violent repression on the basis of a salafist policy in the Saudi Kong dictatorship.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175331	It was then a completely crazy conclusion to say that the Danish People's Party believes that what is happening in Saudi Arabia is quite fine because we do not want to abolish Saudi Arabia's sovereignty and decide what to use their imports for. It's totally in the hemp to argue that way. And if sir... Nikolaj Villumsen had no basis for criticising Saudi Arabia or Iran or other countries before the adoption of the human rights declaration, so I think it is a bad thing for Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's morale. It is perfectly possible to criticise the behaviour or organisation of other countries without a human rights convention. But now there is the Convention on Human Rights, but it has not abolished the sovereignty of the countries, it still exists and we want to maintain it. It is the basis of our world order.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175421	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175423	Well, I'm sorry, if somebody's arguing crazy here, then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup. To say that the way in which we deal with permits for Danish companies and their exports has something to do with the Westfalse peace is totally, completely out of place. It is not a question of going in and intervening in the national sovereignty of Saudi Arabia. It is a question of going in and intervening in relation to Danish companies' exports of certain goods. That is what we are doing at the moment. At the moment, that is what we are doing! What is at issue is that this is a strengthening of the current practice. Does this mean that the current government has abolished Westfalse peace? That is absolutely absurd.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175506	I don't think we can lift Westfalse peace. So I think that is to be absolutely absurd. But we are based on a world order called the Western False World Order, where sovereignty, that is. It is essential not to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. That's what our world order is based on. That is what the UN system is also based on. It's not up for discussion. When it comes to whether we can go in to check what Saudi companies are doing and possibly stop them, I have to say that we cannot. We have to say that if we believe in the declaration that they sign, which makes it possible for Danish exporters to export to these companies, then we cannot go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175553	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175556	After all, Danish companies are the ones you relate to. They're gonna need a license from the Business Administration to export these goods. You don't go in there and intervene in relation to Saudi buyers of these things. It is in relation to the Danish companies that sell these goods. It has nothing to do with abolishing the nation states or the western false peace. On the contrary, it has something to do with holding onto the Danish national state's ability to check whether we also export goods that may have an inappropriate effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175629	After all, this proposal proposes that we should be able to control the companies that receive or import goods from Denmark, which have both military and civil purposes. That's what I'm saying: I don't believe it. We can't. Unfortunately, and this is unfortunate, we have to believe in their statement that they will use it for one thing or another. If the Danish Business Administration believes it, that's what we can do. We do not have the authority to go into the country and check whether individual companies behave in one way or another. If you do that, you will abolish the sovereignty of the countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175705	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. We move on to Mr. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175713	Thank you for that, President. With this proposal, Enhedslisten will require the government to take the necessary legislative and administrative initiatives to make it compulsory for Danish authorities to refuse authorisation to export dual-use products to countries that seriously violate human rights. Dual use is a designation of products or technologies that can be used both for civilian and military purposes, including products or technologies that can contribute to the production of weapons of mass destruction. Dual-use products are already under export control and exporters must be authorised to export if the products are to be able to be exported. I agree that it is important to ensure that Danish exports of inter alia. surveillance products are not abused by any repressive regimes. That is why we have also built up a system in Denmark which would like to deal with this. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are not alone in the dual-use set of rules, as it is currently under negotiation. The Commission's proposals include: aim to strengthen the control of surveillance equipment in order to prevent the use of products in human rights violations. By following that path, we will achieve that not only in Denmark we put our heels in, but also that all countries within the European Union do so. With those comments, the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal, but has great sympathy for the underlying ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175846	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175848	Thank you. It is very positive if we succeed in adopting stricter rules within the European Union. I think we will all support that. In any case, this is also what has been supported by the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs. But there is nothing to prevent us from adopting stricter rules here in Denmark, as the Enhedslisten proposes with this motion for a resolution. So I would just like to hear from the Left: what is the reason why we do not want stricter rules in this area, so that, for example, we ensure that the dictatorship in Saudi Arabia does not have the opportunity to import surveillance equipment from Denmark to suppress its own people and democratic forces?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522175935	I therefore very much agree with the rapporteur's intention that the products exported out of Denmark should not be used for repression. But can Enhedslisten guarantee me that those products, for example. monitoring equipment not being used to detect any terrorist attempts against the Saudi regime or the Saudi population? Well, I haven't got that knowledge, the questioner has it, but I don't have it. But there is no doubt that in relation to products that can be misused for other things than what they are intended, we should of course pay close attention. And there I am so screwed up that I am going for the big solution first, and that is the EU solution. If it doesn't fall into place, we'll see what we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180017	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180018	What we are talking about here are the Danish rules. So, you had some tight rules until 2014, when it was changed under the previous government. These lax rules have then been maintained under the current government, and those rules then lead to, if we hear what NGOs, human rights organisations such as Amnesty International say, that this surveillance equipment that is being exported to Saudi Arabia and Qatar, for example, is being used to suppress civil society and the democratic opposition. Is that really wise? So, is it really wise that in a Middle East filled with despots and full of oppression, we allow them to import surveillance equipment from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180104-2	Well, I just don't have the knowledge that the questioner has. I do not know how these things are being used, for example. Saudi Arabia. But I know that there is a great deal of attention to a terrorist threat in Saudi Arabia, just as we are in Denmark and in all other countries. In this context, we also have an increased pressure of control. But whether it is being used directly against the Saudi people or whether it is being used to stop a possible terrorist attack, I do not know how things can go either way. That is also why, among other things, we are here. has that end-user statement, and that's also why we're involving our intelligence service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to get so smart before we grant an export permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180144	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. We move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180152	Thank you. As the proposers refer to, Dagbladet Information has quite rightly written a number of articles which highlight the issue of dual use that we are discussing here in Parliament today. Even if you, like me, are liberal, you can probably read Information and then even make good use of it. I don't, though. But if I did, I would be aware quite quickly in this case that it is a question of ensuring that Danish export products are not abused by ruthless dictators to suppress their populations. The question then is how to ensure this as best we can. The proposers believe that we do this through national bans. I do not think so. In general terms, I and the Liberal Alliance do not believe that national bans are the way forward. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, it will reduce the framework conditions for Danish companies in relation to foreign companies and weaken their competitiveness at home. It seems to me to see a little bit crazy to give Danish companies worse opportunities than their competitors in our neighbouring countries. We must also bear in mind that it is not, of course, the responsibility of companies that their products can be used for this kind of purpose that we want to prevent. Therefore, we must not punish Danish companies, but rather find common European solutions so that we do not put our Danish companies at a disadvantage in international competition. Secondly, I and the Liberal Alliance believe that national bans do not work because this is an international problem. And international problems are, of course, the best solution at international level. Denmark is simply too small a player on the big international political scene for this to really bear something. Yes, there is of course a signal value in banning the export of dual use equipment, but in the Liberal Alliance we believe and are most concerned that the actions we adopt actually also work. And that is why, through the European Union, we must find a common solution so that we do not unnecessarily weaken the competitiveness of Danish industry. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180427	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180430	That's a clear speech. Liberal Alliance is a liberal party, not understood in the way that you fight for people's rights and put them first, but so that you fight for Danish business to have the best export opportunities possible. It's honest talk if it's the position of the Liberal Alliance. When I took the floor, it was because the rapporteur said that this proposal would not work. I am very surprised, because before 2014 we had a strict line in Denmark that was within EU rules, but for example it banned exports to a brutal dictatorship such as Saudi Arabia. Why does the rapporteur not think this will work? So, the reality is that this is being implemented, we have a stop to exports from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180523	Yes, and the latter is perhaps precisely the problem, that is, that it is a stop for Denmark, but that the states in question would then be able to acquire equipment in other ways and use it for, you can say, both one purpose and the other. That's the dilemma in this. We don't want to stop it. Of course, the Liberal Alliance is also a freedom-loving party on behalf of other nations and peoples, contrary to what the questioner indicated otherwise, but we do not want to put Danish industry at a disadvantage than others, and since this is an international problem, as I said in my speech, international solutions must be found so that we can get rid of these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180607	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180608	Well, then, I'm just gonna ask the Liberal Alliance, where's the lower limit? Well, if the argument is that you can just buy the surveillance equipment from somewhere else, what is the lower limit for the Liberal Alliance? So, is there a lower limit, or should we always just keep up with the lowest level in relation to the standards of human rights that we set for companies operating in Denmark? What is the lower limit of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180637	In this context, what I also said in my speech is an effect on us, and that effect must be found internationally, in this context through an EU solution. We also believe this in a large number of other areas, in other words, that when we talk about international issues, we must seek international cooperation, and in this context it is a solution in the European Union that will have a real impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180703	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180711	Thank you. Like the authors of the motion, I was also deeply shocked when I was called last year by the newspaper Information, which wrote this article, which is also mentioned in the comments. Yes, it wasn't about Denmark having tougher rules than everyone else, no, on the contrary, there was actually a company that had used its subsidiary in Denmark to sell some equipment they couldn't be allowed to sell to Saudi Arabia anywhere else in the EU. It was crazy that we had made a relaxation of some rules, so we suddenly became a shelter for companies that wanted to sell some things to these countries. Now there are several rapporteurs who have said that we should not put Danish industry at a disadvantage, and I really think it is a little wrong that we are talking about this here as if it is about Danish business. Because this is about how we stand up for human rights. It is about what kind of rules we make, so that we protect people, including in other countries, from the abuses that their regimes are making, and that is why, of course, we must have the strictest possible rules and also work for the common European market. Because it's clear that if it's really going to bat, it's not enough that it's in Denmark that you have these rules, but then it's just about what it's like to make pan-European rules in this area. As a starting point, I can say that we are of course in favour of this proposal, but we are also listening to the rapporteurs who have been up here so far, and there is not exactly a majority in favour of the proposal, which is why I wonder if there is anything else we can do. At the same time, I also think that there has been some seriousness among the rapporteurs on this issue, in other words from virtually everyone. So perhaps we should look at creating a kind of joint report which, like tightening up some of the wordings that were made when it was presented in the Committee on European Affairs, is to really work for the toughest possible rules on human rights and not just looking at the role of Danish business but actually looking at how we in the European Union can really support human rights, even in countries other than our own. So it is certainly a proposal that we should look at whether we can make something common in committee. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they will also be able to support a joint report which tightens up some of those points.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522180941	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. This means that the next rapporteur is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181000	Like others, I would also like to point out that it is a problem with the export of what we are talking about here, in other words dual use products, which are, as such, in a grey area between genuine arms exports and so civilian exports, in that these are products that can be used both civil and military. We have been aware of this for many years, and there is a special authorisation regime which takes place and which runs through the Ministry of Business and Industry, and that is actually good enough. However, it is not, because there have been several examples, if I may say so, that there have been exports of products that should not have come to certain countries, for example. Saudi Arabia or Qatar, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has mentioned, and we know very well that these are brutal dictatorships, and we also know that to the extent that they can use surveillance equipment to bother and do things that are even worse in relation to their own citizens, they will also do so. That is why I think it is right, as the Enhedslisten proposes here, that we need to tighten up on the rules currently in place, and we support this. I do not think it is appropriate for this proposal to be adopted as it stands, because it may not have been sufficiently worked out. It is not certain countries that are being talked about here, but it is countries that are violating human rights, and that is a little loose in it, what it is for countries and who should define it. So at any rate, it is necessary to clarify it more clearly, and that is why I think that Mr Beazley's report is a good one. Rasmus Nordqvist made a very thoughtful speech here from the platform, which ran out in that one could make a report. It is quite normal, of course, in relation to the motions for resolutions tabled by the opposition, that a report is being prepared in which we can jointly discuss the problems here and then hopefully arrive at a tightening up of the rules, as I actually sense there is an interest in us getting done.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181237	Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party. Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) asks for the floor and marks it by raising his hand. Holger K. Nielsen come back to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181258	I just wanna sign for... now it went out. There's a leprechaun playing down here, but we can handle that, too. Henrik Dam Kristensen It's a good... Here you go. ) Then it is our royal house that plays us a trick here. Thank you. I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that we are raising the debate. I think it is a very good idea if we can make a report calling on the government to work for strict rules in the European Union. But I have to say, I'm a little sad that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says that it is an unclear proposal because it is precisely emphasised that it is countries that seriously violate human rights, and that was the situation before the changes in 2014. In fact, there was the situation where dual use products were not allowed to be exported to countries which seriously violated human rights. So that is just what I wanted to draw the rapporteur's attention to, and I look forward to working together during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181413	Yes, yes, but when I say so, it is because you have to have down on paper what it is for countries if you are to have a direct ban. In other words, if you are going to have a ban into legislation, and that is what I understand this proposal is going to end up in, you have to do it, that you have to clarify in the law what it is for countries that we are not allowed to sell to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181439	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181445	Yes, but it can be said that the way it worked before the 2014 change was, of course, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs assessed the cases, and in relation to countries that made serious violations of human rights, they said no to export licences. Now, like yourself, we have been instructed to prove that the equipment that we want to export will, in the specific case, be used by the regime for repression. It is, of course, very difficult to prove, and thus these export licences have been opened for Saudi Arabia and Qatar, for example. So, it's just to say that I'm sorry if Mr. Simpson... Holger K. Nielsen believes it is unclear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181520	Yes, yes, but I think we can work this out in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181528	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181542	Conservatives cannot support the resolution either. I do not believe that the Westfalse world order will collapse, as Mrs Marie Krarup said, if we voted through the resolution in that I neither foresee the resurrection of the German-Roman emperor, the religious war between Catholics and Protestants nor the massacres of villages from Catholic and Protestant armies down through Europe, nor that the sovereignty of the nation states would collapse. But there would be some drawbacks to the proposal for Danish business. As a starting point, we think that we should ensure that Danish industry can export and make some money for itself and for Denmark for the benefit of our prosperity in this country. And there must be reasons if we place restrictions on exports. I think the Minister has explained the system very well today, where there is a system to prevent the sale of equipment to countries that use the equipment to violate human rights. In addition, there is also a mechanism, which is, of course, that we have confidence in the fact that most companies will ensure that they do not sell equipment to dictatorships that use it to suppress the population. I do not think it is a goal that many companies want, and otherwise the market will probably also strike down on it, which Enhedslisten can also help by raising awareness of the problem. So we believe that the mechanisms already in place are sufficient to regulate this problem and do not therefore see the need to support the motion for a resolution on further rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181728	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. This time there were no brief comments, so we shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522181752	Thank you. And thank you for the debate. Of course, I find it sad that there is no majority in favour of closing this gap created by the weakening of the rules of the former SR government. I think that is a pity, but I hope that in committee we can reach agreement on a report that can oblige the government to work for stricter EU rules, which clearly represent a majority. After all, the problem is that the weakening that was made in 2014 by the former SR government is actually still in effect. The only thing that has changed since then is an end-user declaration. However, nothing has changed in relation to the administrative procedures that make it possible to export to a dictatorship such as Qatar, as has been allowed, for example, under the current government. This resolution has been tabled on the basis of a number of revelations in the Dagbladet Information. Here it has emerged that following a change in the guidelines in spring 2014 under the former SR government for the export of so-called dual-use products to countries that grossly violate human rights, surveillance equipment has been exported to a number of dictatorship states, among others. Qatar, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and other countries which have a very bad human rights record. If it weren't for the revelations in the Dagbladet Information, we couldn't actually have had this debate. The change in the guidelines, which took Denmark away from a restrictive course, in which it was in fact the case that there was a blacklisting of a number of countries with violent human rights violations, to a lax position where even brutal dictatorships such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar could be exported, happened without an orientation of the Folketing's foreign policy mention. In other words, a major change in Danish foreign policy has been made without the involvement of the Folketing, and this has been done in secret. I think that in itself is quite grotesque. But even more problematic is the fact that, according to Amnesty International and a number of other NGOs and experts, this export of surveillance equipment has been used to suppress the democratic opposition. In a country such as Qatar, it is the case that you go to prison to criticise the emir running the country, and you can go to prison to encourage more humane conditions for immigrant workers who, for example, are working to prepare the football World Cup. In Saudi Arabia one can be condemned to flogging or even to death in order to question the king's dictatorship, which puts an extremely conservative and salafist interpretation of Islam into practice with brutal consequences for the population. In Morocco, you go to prison if you criticise the king or question the illegal occupation of Western Sahara by that country. It is just to mention some of the problems in these countries where monitoring equipment is exported from Denmark. In other words, Danish exports of surveillance equipment have contributed to weakening the democratic forces and strengthening brutal dictatorships in a part of the world that is already plagued by despots and oppression. That is why, of course, we are proposing that the rules should be changed. We do that with this resolution from the Enhedslisten. We believe that Denmark must uphold human rights and support democratic forces and civil society in the Middle East too, where it is urgently needed. We must not in any way help to strengthen despots and religious regimes. Similarly, it is, of course, very positive that, right now, the EU is negotiating to tighten the rules for the export of dual-use products, i.e. products that can be used for both military and civil purposes. It is, of course, positive if we manage to tighten up and I hope that we in the Danish Parliament can agree broadly on a call for the government to work actively in the forthcoming committee to tighten up EU rules. But I do not think this option should be an excuse for not tightening up the Danish rules. We know from Dagbladet Information that the export of surveillance equipment remains under the current VLAK government. Specifically, exports to the Emir dictatorship in Qatar have been extended to 2019. I hope, therefore, that, despite the somewhat negative words today, we can continue to have a good committee reading, that the party rapporteurs will think and consider whether it is really sensible that we do not tighten these rules. For I firmly believe that the Middle East does not need more repression, does not need more instability and even more people who can be chased on the run to speak against the oppressive regimes that they have. So thank you for now. And I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182312	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Defence Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182326	The debate is open. Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182345	The proposal from the Danish People's Party is about requiring the government to take the initiative for a referendum prior to a possible decision on Danish participation in the EU's strengthened banking cooperation. DF justifies the proposal by stating that Danish participation in enhanced banking cooperation would mean that sovereignty would be transferred to a supranational authority, namely the ECB, i.e. the ECB. the joint supervision of enhanced banking cooperation. At the same time, DF considers that a referendum on possible Danish participation will ensure a democratic and open debate on the issue. DF submitted a broadly similar motion for a resolution back in 2014. At that time, the Ministry of Justice was still in the process of assessing whether participation would involve the surrender of sovereignty under Article 20 of the Constitution. That assessment has since been completed and was published in 2015. The conclusion is that there is no surrender of sovereignty if Denmark participates in the cooperation. The assessment shall be based, inter alia, on: If we decide to participate in the cooperation, it will continue to be the FSA that will implement the decisions taken by the ECB in relation to the Danish institutes. Joint supervision shall not be given the power to adopt acts or to exercise any other power vis-à-vis credit institutions having direct effect in this country. Joint supervision decisions will take the form of instructions addressed to the relevant national authorities and not to individual credit institutions. For this reason, it will be the Danish authorities which inform each credit institution, for example. orders or other supervisory decisions. Moreover, it will be the Danish authorities and not the joint supervision which exercises the powers of investigation and supervision conferred by the regulation on joint banking supervision. Therefore, it is not correct when DF states that Danish participation in the cooperation will mean that sovereignty is transferred to a supranational authority. As you know, we do not have a tradition of referenda on EU issues when there is no surrender of sovereignty. We follow and respect the division of labour in the Constitution. We will, of course, take those referendums when we have to. For example, we had... Nor are referendums on the Treaty of Nice and Lisbon, where there was no surrender of sovereignty, and therefore the government cannot support the resolution. As can be seen from the motion for a resolution, the government has launched an analysis work with a view to finalising its position on Danish participation in the strengthened banking cooperation in autumn 2019. A working group has been set up to look at all the relevant issues that are relevant to the question of whether Denmark should join the cooperation. The working party shall examine, inter alia: closer to what experience has been gained in the participating countries, the consequences of leaving out in the light of Brexit, possible consequences as regards the handling of Danish mortgage loans, and the consequences for financial and economic stability in Denmark. We are now waiting for the working group to look at all these issues and to report back to the government on the advantages and disadvantages of Danish participation in the strengthened banking cooperation. Report to be made by autumn 2019 at the latest. Then the government will finally decide whether we will seek the support of the Danish Parliament's parties for Denmark's participation in the cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182709	Thank you very much, Minister. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182713	Thank you. I will not speak 11 minutes and 31 seconds, as my watch said here before, but I would just like to ask the Minister two specific questions. Firstly, is it a unified government that is behind the rejection of the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party? Secondly, who has the power to close a Danish bank that is going to be in trouble and here, of course, I mean a systemically important bank? Who has that competence if Denmark joins the banking union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182750	After all, I speak on behalf of the government as a minister in a three-party government and the government rejects the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182801	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182804	Well then, I have to ask the second question again: who has the competence to close a systemically important bank in Denmark if it gets into trouble? Is it not true that, in the end, it is the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, where Denmark does not have a seat, that will have that competence if Denmark joins the banking union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182826	It will be the Danish authorities, and that means that it is the FSA that informs the individual credit institution, for example. orders or other supervisory decisions. There is, of course, also a discussion and a dialogue about the ECB about this, but it is the FSA that must put it into practice. In other words, it will be the Danish authorities, and for us it is the FSA which, after an instruction and in this way, the questioner has a little right from the joint supervision involving Danish credit institutions' license to conduct business; it is not only mortgage institutions but also financial institutions. However, and this is the important thing here and therefore that no sovereignty has been given, Denmark may at any time choose not to follow an instruction from the joint supervision. And that will then mean that it will have consequences that we may have to resign from cooperation and so on. But it is we who make the final decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182924	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522182925	Thank you. Then hell will certainly be loose if you end up in that situation. That is why we are also some who think it is an unsavory situation to put ourselves in. I have to say that we now have the situation that this banking union was adopted quite a few years ago, and I cannot help but think that it is a bit fantastic that just where these experts are finishing their assessment is in autumn 2019, when you are sure to be at the distance of a parliamentary election and you are sure to be at the distance of a European Parliament election. Some might suspect that it is simply a matter of being at a safe distance from these elections, so that those parties who want to join Denmark in the EU's banking union avoid it becoming a theme and avoid asking the people. I just want to hear the Minister: can the Minister not confirm that a referendum could be allowed by the government, even if the assessment by the Ministry of Justice is that it is not a question of surrendering sovereignty?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183039	If we take the first part on timing first, we made the decision in the government, and I was involved in it myself, because we would have time to examine the consequences of a possible Danish entry into the banking union. There are various things that I also mentioned in my speech that we are examining and that we must be sure of. It is a major decision which will have an impact on our financial sector, as we have also said from the government that we are fundamentally positive about it, but that we need to examine the consequences of it. And on the subject of referendums: Well, a referendum can always be taken. However, in 2015, the Ministry of Justice estimated that a possible decision on Danish participation in a strengthened banking partnership does not require
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183131	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183132	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister confirms that it is possible for the government to issue a referendum if you wish it to be a political choice. I also think it is positive that the Minister would emphasise that joining Denmark to the EU's banking union would be a major decision, because it is a decision that could have major consequences. I just want to hear the Minister: when it is a big decision and when the government thinks it is positive, why not put out a referendum and then convince the people that it is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183208-2	Well, we follow the rules of the game, and when the Ministry of Justice considers that this is not a question of surrender of sovereignty, it does not require a referendum. Now we're gonna do that analysis. As a government, we have not decided whether or not Denmark should participate in the strengthened banking cooperation. That is why we have set up a working group which will have plenty of time to work and they will look into all the relevant issues. I do not want to hide the fact that I personally am in favour of Danish participation in enhanced banking cooperation, because I believe that it will have a positive impact on a number of aspects of our financial sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183246	Thank you, Minister. Then we start the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183307	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for having tabled this motion for a resolution. To be relatively brief, we in the Socialist Group cannot support the motion for a resolution. This does not mean that we do not welcome the discussion. But we cannot do that for two reasons. This is firstly because we base the analysis that was made back in 2015 on whether or not it was a surrender of sovereignty. The Ministry of Justice concluded that there was no evidence at the time. Secondly, we really think that it is premature to decide now whether or not to hold a referendum on a banking union when we really do not know a given basis for a possible Danish participation. I do not want to hide the fact that we in the Social Democratic Party have reservations about Denmark joining a banking union. We are for many different reasons. That is also why we are awaiting the conclusions and recommendations of the government-appointed working group and the whole issue, which should come sometime next year before we take the discussion on the next steps. Something else is also the development that we are seeing. There are a number of unresolved issues concerning, in particular, the deposit insurance scheme and the United Kingdom and Brexit, and also, if you look at the recent Italian election, risks that can also take place on the horizon. Against this background, we also believe that it is premature to decide whether there should be a referendum. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183446	Mr President, first of all, there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183449	The questioner himself actually said that the only outstanding issue, the only such unknown card we have, is the Deposit Guarantee Fund. We do not know exactly what the framework for this is. We know the rest very well. But I'd like to ask Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, if it's Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's view that Danish bank customers have to pay the price for indebted financial institutions in other countries. So it is such a social democratic experience of what solidarity in Europe entails, namely that Danish bank customers have to pay for financial institutions that go down in, for example. Italy or Greece?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183537	No, that is not necessarily our view of what solidarity is. I would say that there are quite a few nuances in that discussion. I think it has to be said first of all that the type of deposit guarantee scheme one has in the Danish banking sector has actually proved to be really, really good. This does not necessarily mean that we must force Danish bank customers to pay for, for example, the Italian Monde dei Paschi, which is constantly moving on the edge of bankruptcy. But it has to be said that the fact that the banks themselves provide a significant part of what has to be made available for possible bailouts is, in my view, a good idea overall and, in principle, a good idea. The questioner himself asks why we are also reluctant to say on the current basis that we are convinced that Danish accession to the EU banking union is a good idea, namely that there are significant risks in a number of different banks still away here 10 years after the financial crisis, including in Italy, including Greece and elsewhere, which I therefore do not feel convinced that Danish banking customers and Danish banks should deliver that bailout to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183653	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183655	The banks pay for themselves, says the rapporteur. It's the customers in the end, because it's the customers who finance this, and the banks just want to pass the bill on to the customers. I think it is a good thing that we are also getting round the Deposit Guarantee Fund, but I also think it should be borne in mind that around Europe there are systemically important banks which are at risk of going down, and Danish banking customers will also pay for this, if necessary Denmark joining the banking union. And if it is the case that the Social Democratic Party is so sceptical about this, why can't the Social Democratic Party just report and say: we are against the EU's banking union, we do not want Denmark to join the EU's banking union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183734	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183735	Well, I've already said that in the first place. We await the work of the government-set up working group and, moreover, we are also following the political and economic developments around Europe. We think it is simply premature to decide at this stage whether we should have a referendum on a definitive basis that we do not quite know. And we also do not know the scope for Danish mortgage loans, for example. Then there is the second point, namely that we basically have the view that we should have referenda when it comes to the surrender of sovereignty in the sense of the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183811	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183812	Okay, but that was perhaps the really honest answer: there must be a referendum when the Ministry of Justice considers this to be a surrender of sovereignty. Either the Social Democratic Party believes that a referendum should not be considered until it knows the assessment which will then come in handy, after there has been a parliamentary election and an EU parliamentary election in autumn 2019, or one is in principle opposed to holding indicative referendums unless the Ministry of Justice recommends it because of the surrender of sovereignty. So what is the social democratic position? Does the Social Democrats open up the possibility of having a referendum which is indicative, as they had on the internal market back in 1985, which they did quite voluntarily on the part of the Danish Parliament without being forced to do so by the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522183909	The Socialist position is the one that I expressed at the outset, and it is primarily about the fact that we think that the question of whether or not sovereignty is being given has been uncovered. The second is that we also think it is premature to decide whether a referendum should be held on a basis that we do not yet know. We are not in favour of holding referendums on things that we do not know what is. I know, for example, that Enhedslisten has a discussion with himself and the rest of us about whether to have a referendum on whether to leave the EU without knowing what is waiting for the other side. I would like to discuss referendums of all kinds as soon as I know what the real basis for decision is. In the Social Democratic Party we are sceptical about whether Denmark should join a possible banking union. We think there are significant issues that have not yet been clarified and we think that the political and economic climate in Europe is, to say the least, bleak.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184003	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184004	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is in no doubt; we always want a referendum on the European Union. We would have liked to have had a referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon so that the Danes could decide whether Denmark should join the Treaty of Lisbon. This prevented a majority in the Folketing, but Denmark was still joined. We would have liked to have a referendum on whether Denmark should join the EU Financial Pact. This prevented a majority in the Folketing, but Denmark was still joined. Now we would like to have a referendum on the EU's banking union, because it can have major consequences with the Minister's words, and then I just think it is a pity that once again the Social Democrats will not support the Danes being allowed to be asked in such an important question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184048	Well, I think it is quite fair that Enhedslisten would like to have as many referenda as possible. The difference between the referendums that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen mentions, namely the Treaty of Lisbon and, for that matter, the financial pact, was, of course, that at that time the Enhedslisten could say: there is a basis for decision here, which we would like to have voted on. In relation to the resolution we are debating today, we must decide in advance whether we should have a referendum on a basis for decisions that we do not yet know and where we on the part of the Social Democrats have not yet decided whether or not we think it is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184121	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. There are no more questions. We move on to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184131	Thank you. I would also like to thank the authors of this motion for a resolution, in which I initially thought that no, we now have the referendum on Europol that the DF promised us, but that was not so, because it is something else that we think we should vote on. Because what has also been explained by previous rapporteurs is that we want a referendum ahead of a possible one. So it is such a rather hypothetical discussion that we have today, because it is not decided whether to seek support at all for Denmark's participation in the cooperation. There's a lot going on at the moment. We are awaiting the outcome of this analysis work. In the comments to the proposal, the Danish People's Party justifies its view that, according to the Danish People's Party, this will be what is called the surrender of sovereignty. It is, after all, a concept laid down in the constitution, and it is therefore believed by DF that it is a question of sovereignty if Denmark joins the banking union. I certainly have great respect for the great talents that house around the Proviant House, where the Danish People's Party belongs, but I will now, after all, take no personal note of this instead of putting my lot in the weight of the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice, because they have made a very thorough assessment of the issue and have come to a different conclusion. In connection with a 2015 report on possible Danish participation in the strengthened banking cooperation • It was the former government that set the work in motion • The Ministry of Justice made exactly an assessment of the issue of the surrender of sovereignty. And the Ministry of Justice then considered that a possible Danish participation in the strengthened banking cooperation does not require a referendum under the Constitution. The Ministry of Justice then placed particular emphasis on the fact that, under the joint supervision of banks, it will continue to be the Danish authorities and not the ECB acting with regard to credit institutions in Denmark and, as the Minister also mentioned, we also have the possibility of not following a decision, even if that will have consequences if it does. We do not have a tradition in Denmark of holding referendums on EU issues unless there is sovereignty, and that is not the case here. Neither was there when we had to take a position on the Nice and Lisbon Treaties. They were also adopted without a referendum. That is a clear line, a policy on the part of the Left. Of course, in the case of surrender of sovereignty, we are taking a referendum. Conversely, if this is not the case, then we will not take a referendum unless there is something very, very special, as, for example, when we voted on the Community package at the time. We respect the division of labour in the Constitution, that is the way it is. We see no reason to change that, and that is why we cannot follow the proposal of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184448	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184451	Look, the devil is in the detail, and Mr. After all, Jan E. Jørgensen was very well told, namely that it is the FSA that is acting against. However, in the event that a systemically important Danish bank has to be closed down, the FSA will act at the direction of the European Central Bank, and if the FSA does not do so, Denmark will get out of that banking union and will get into difficult, difficult problems. So it's highly academic to say that this isn't the surrender of sovereignty. It is only in a very, very formal legalistic sense. For, in fact, we leave it to a body outside Denmark to decide the fate of Denmark's five systemically important banks. - Sir... Jan E. Jørgensen really be happy with that? Is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen really comforted by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184547	Yes, it is the short answer, and that also applies to the other way around. If you want to work together together on this issue which we have not yet taken a position on whether we want to, but I would say that I share the Minister's immediate positive attitude to a banking union, then of course it is also the case that decisions taken by the joint authority must be implemented, otherwise it does not make much sense. But we have the opportunity to say that we will not, and if we do not, then we will not, and then it is not so much longer, and that is why we retain our sovereignty: we make the decisions that we ourselves think are right. But do we not also think that the decisions made by the ECB are right? We have no reason to believe otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184639	Well, then we'll see if mr. Søren Gade agrees with that view. I understand that there is such a tendency at the moment that the Left will both represent one point of view and the other point of view, but it will be exciting to see, when we are going to European elections, how it is going to run. But I'm just gonna ask sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, since mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is now in favour of the banking union: how will Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen secure Danish mortgage in relation to the EU's banking union?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184708-2	I said that I was immediately in favour, and precisely the question of the unique Danish mortgage house that we have, which is not really something we know in other countries and with which we have good experience and which we do not want to give up, is one of the very things that the working group that has been set up is working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184728	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522184747	Thank you. Even a blind chicken can find eggs. That is what an old Danish proverb says, and that is also true in this case. It is rare that we in Enhedslisten agree with Dansk Folkeparti in particular much, but here Dansk Folkeparti has found eggs, and of course we support that. We have long fought for a referendum on the EU's banking union if a majority in the Folketing were to decide to join the banking union, and I really think that the discussion or rather the lack of discussion of the EU's banking union is a good example of what is wrong with EU policy in Denmark. According to the European Commission, the banking union is the largest project that has been created since the euro, and with the words of the Minister for Industry, we have also heard that this is a major decision, here today in the Assembly Chamber, and we can of course hear from the government that we are in favour of joining the banking union. You just have to have examined the consequences for Denmark, and that study has been done in such a convenient way, so it is finished when you are on the other side of a parliamentary election and on the other side of an EU parliamentary election in autumn 2019. In other words, the government would like to join Denmark in the EU's banking union when it is on the safe side of a choice and has thereby ensured that it cannot be stopped, that once again power is handed over to the EU without asking the people and without a prior debate. I have to say that I think it is lax and that I think it is a fundamentally undemocratic approach to the Danish people. It's like you think the Danes are stupid. We do not think so in the Enhedslisten. We believe that the public can stand to decide whether or not Denmark should be part of the EU's banking union. That is why we support a referendum, and I think it is actually important to use today's debate to look at what it really is for a banking union that is on the table and to which the government is in favour of joining Denmark. A key part of the banking union is the resolution fund, which is intended to cover all banks in the losses incurred by EU countries in a possible new financial crisis. So how much money is it supposed to put in this settlement fund? There's the answer 400 billion. kr. That sounds like a lot, but if you look at what has been used since the financial crisis to give in direct bank packages or guarantees to banks in EU countries, you can see that 12 billion have been spent. kr. A significantly larger amount has therefore been spent than what is now being proposed in the resolution fund since the financial crisis to give to the banks. Who, then, will have to cover it when the resolution fund is empty? Yeah, it's the backstops. Then who are the backstops? It is the treasury, it is the taxpayers who will then have to pay the bill. The settlement mechanism that is being implemented must be managed by the European Central Bank. This means that the question of whether Danske Bank, for example, should be saved or closed in a future financial crisis is an issue that will not be settled by Denmark, which will not be decided by elected politicians but will be decided by non-elected members of the European Central Bank. Frankly, I think it is bizarre if non-elected people are to make such a decisive decision for the future of Denmark, and I fear that if there is a new financial crisis in Europe, it can be a really expensive business for taxpayers in Denmark and for taxpayers in all EU countries. Then it often sounds from the enthusiastic and positive parties to the banking union that the rules have been tightened so that there should not be a new financial crisis. To that I just have to say that I think you're imagining something to yourself. The reality is that today there is a situation where the rules on Wall Street are tighter than they are in the European Union, where the minimum international standards made after the financial crisis by the European Union have become maximum standards which it is not possible for Denmark and other countries to take the lead and do even better. So in other words, in short: once again, we are trying to sneak euro policy through the back door. This was done with the financial pact, and now we are trying to do it again with the banking union, and of course we will not accept that in the Enhedslisten. We therefore support the proposal for a referendum if a majority in the Folketing decides that they want to join Denmark in the banking union.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185320	Thank you to the rapporteur. You're welcome). And I would almost like to add that chickens lay find The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185345	Thank you very much. Should we hold a referendum ahead of possible accession to the banking union? In fact, we in the Liberal Alliance think this is a good idea from the outset. The banking union is a construction linked to euro cooperation, in which, as you know, the Danes have said 'no' to participate. We in the Liberal Alliance therefore recognise the desire for a referendum. The fact that we are unable to support the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is due to the timing of the proposal. The government has no intention of joining the EU banking union. In the Liberal Alliance, we are aware of the fact that the government has launched an analysis work, which includes: must uncover the experience of other countries and the consequences for economic stability in Denmark by participating in the strengthened banking cooperation. We look forward to the work group's reporting in autumn 2019 and hope that it will then contribute to a good and enlightened debate on Danish participation in the banking union. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party at present, even though we fully recognise the desire for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185504	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185508	On 20 December 2013, Mrs Christina Egelund's party colleague, Mrs Mette Bock, said the following: "When we are about to get to grips with the sometimes rather complicated EU stuff, we should at the same time take a referendum on the banking union, even if this is not required by the Constitution. If the Prime Minister has just a little respect for the Danes, she'll let that bank union vote. So it's not that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has changed sex, but it was because the Prime Minister at the time was Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt. Today we hear from the rapporteur that for the time being the Liberal Alliance does not support a referendum. Could Mrs Christina Egelund perhaps clarify whether the fact that the Liberal Alliance does not at present support this proposal is linked to the fact that the Liberal Alliance is part of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185615	But there is no contradiction in the quotation that I actually expected the questioner to have dug up, because the questioner has the habit of doing so. There is agreement between the quote from Mrs Mette Bock from 2013 and what I am saying today, namely that we in the Liberal Alliance actually think that if we are to join Denmark's banking union, it would be a good idea to ask the people first. That is what I said in my speech. So I say, is this the time? No, it is not, because the government has no plans to join us in the banking union, both because, I think, it is quite well known that we in the government are looking at the substance of that issue differently and, indeed, because it would be, I think, good style to await the reporting and analysis work of the working group that has been set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185702	I think that is an insult, I would say to Mrs Christina Egelund, that there is no difference. But I would like to hear something from Mrs Christina Egelund, which I respect very much, because Mrs Christina Egelund is on the ground and has to explain time and time again why the Liberal Alliance has changed its mind. I would like to hear something about a thoughtful situation, namely that the Liberal Alliance is in government after a forthcoming parliamentary election. Will the Liberal Alliance then stand firm for a referendum, or will the Liberal Alliance say to the other parties in that government that you can avoid that, because we do as usual?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185746	I would like to say one thing: we have not changed our position. I have been saying in my speech that I think it would be a good idea to ask the public about this on the day when some would join Denmark in the banking union. That is exactly the same thing as the questioner referred to Mrs Mette Bock for having said back in 2013. I don't think it can be said more clearly. Then the questioner also asks how we are going to deal with the situation in which we had to decide on this at some point after a parliamentary election. Well, it's the position of the Liberal Alliance that we think it's a good idea. Is it ultimate? No, it is not, because we do not have that approach to politics, and I also believe that is a strategy on which the author's party subscribes. That's what I've heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185830	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185832	Thank you. There is, of course, the marked difference that before the Liberal Alliance came into government when Mrs Mette Bock spoke out, there was support for a referendum. The situation was then also that the assessments were not fully known. Now there is no longer any support for a referendum, even though the situation is the same. What I would just like to hear from Mrs Christina Egelund is whether it is not a bit of a free round to say that one is positive about a referendum, knowing that we have the Left, we have the Conservatives, we have the Social Democrats, who say that they will oppose a referendum. We will probably also have the Radicals up and SF if they dare to stand up and say that they are against a referendum, as they usually say. Is it not the case that if we are to have a referendum, there must be massive pressure, otherwise there will not be a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522185936	Yes, I think the questioner is right about that. Fortunately, it is also the way democracy works that we influence each other with our positions. So I do not have a direct influence on what is decided, either in the Left or in the Conservative People's Party or in the Social Democratic Party, unfortunately, but that is the case. But it is clear that, for example, we are going to do something about it. Today, quite openly, we say that a referendum on banking union is a good idea, I do not think it is a free round. I think that is more honesty. Yeah, we think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190011	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190012	Thank you. But is it not precisely when you sit in government and have the opportunity to push things through that you should support such a resolution as this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190025	I do not know; it is a question of technicalities. We sit and are part of the government, and the lucky thing to do is to back up the view we then share is that, after all, it is better to have a party in
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190050	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190059	Thank you. I would like to make a confession: I dread every time we talk about the banking union. And I do so for the simple reason that I have not yet understood the full consequences of the banking union; exactly what it is about and what its consequences are, both for the euro zone and possibly for Denmark. I understand that the government does not actually have that, and that is why a group has been set up to analyse what is important. And I look forward to that very much. Because if there is something that banks are today, it is cross-border. And, of course, there must also be cross-border regulation. I think that goes without saying. We saw a financial crisis in 2008, which was so cross-border, and of course it also requires cross-border responses. But if precisely what is in the banking union is at all enough and if it is at all the right and the exact consequences, after almost three years in the Parliament's European Committee, I do not have a full view of it. Therefore, I look forward very much to the government providing their analysis, although I wish it had been completed a little faster than autumn 2019. On that basis, the alternative cannot support this motion for a resolution today either. We would like to have a proper study of what is important and then take a position on a possible referendum. It's not that we don't want to discuss the banking union. In particular, Enhedslisten's rapporteur has been in favour of it being skilful that it will not be here until 2019, because then we will not have to discuss it. I would very much like to discuss it, because I would also like to learn more about it, and I am sure that there are many people in Denmark who would like to know what this means. But it is simply because we have to examine what consequences it has; what consequences it has for us, both economically and also in relation to the banks. Are we getting proper regulation through this? We will see this in autumn 2019, and then we will have to decide whether a referendum is right and whether we think it is right to enter it, etc. etc. We in the alternative are not really so concerned with the exact surrender of sovereignty. That is not what matters to us whether or not we should have a referendum. It is more whether this is the right question; whether it is right to throw it into a referendum. And as I say it may be that I am the only one who dares to say it, but I am sure that there are others who feel the same way as I do. After almost 3 years in the Parliament's European Committee, I do not have a full overview of the banking union. That is why I am also careful to say whether sending the question to a referendum is also the right way to create that involvement. So the alternative does not support this resolution at this stage, and I must say that the Radical Left does not support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190348	Thank you. There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. The first is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190401	Thank you. Actually, I don't think it's that hard. The banking union is a joint financial supervision, a settlement mechanism for systemically important banks, and then there is a discussion about whether there should also be a depositor guarantee at European level. It is actually to deal with the alternative too, although I do know that the alternative would like to dream, and this is not so much dreams, it is such a hardcore economy. So I think I'm gonna try to ask a question like Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist can respond to that immediately. Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that it would be a good idea if Danish bank customers and, ultimately, the Danish state had to pay part of the costs of winding up, for example. a systemically important bank in Italy?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190454	First of all, I can tell the questioner that I have also read the title, but the banking union is a little more complicated than a headline. Should Danish bankers help to pay for a systemically important bank in Italy? Yes, that may make sense, precisely because banks are cross-border. We are currently discussing money laundering scandals for Danish banks, but this has not happened in Denmark. It has happened a little elsewhere in Europe. That is why we need to look at how we make some of this regulation at European level, and not just sit and look at what we can contain here, and then we cannot care what Danish banks go out and do elsewhere in Europe and vice versa for European banks.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190535	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190537	You should not make things more complicated than they are, and the three things I mentioned here are actually the essence of what the banking union is. Then it is clear that there are a lot of regulations hidden downstairs, but that is the essence, and that is the essence to be considered. Now I got a yes to the first question from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then I'd like to ask Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist another question. Will Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist feels that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's savings are best secured in a Danish deposit guarantee fund or in a European deposit guarantee fund, because the deposit guarantee fund will cover all banks, not just the systemically important banks? Is it best in a Danish scheme or in a European scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190621	Firstly, I have to say that I very, very much disagree with the questioner that it is only just a headline that is important for the content of such a large agreement as the banking union, and I hope that this is not the way to take a view on matters, that is to say that you only read the title. I cannot say here on a stand-by basis what is the most sensible and where I would put my money, because cross-border control of banks makes sense when we face cross-border challenges. Banks act cross-border, the financial crisis was cross-border, and that is why we also need to look at how we carry out cross-border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190658	The next brief remark is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190704	Thank you. That regulation with the financial markets has been so adopted and, in my best judgment, that regulation is deeply inadequate in terms of avoiding new crises, and should there be a crisis that hits Danish taxpayers not only might have to pay for Danish banks, but also for banks in a large number of other countries. My view is that the taxpayers of Denmark should not pay for irresponsible banks in Denmark or in Italy, but they can end up doing so, and the difference between what lies in the settlement mechanism that the EU has created and the bill that has been sent to the banks after the financial crisis is then 8 000 billion. kr., so it's a huge amount. But that's not really what I wanted to ask. What I would like to ask is: why can the alternative not only fully support in principle that there should be a referendum if a majority in the Folketing decides to join Denmark? It is, of course, a fundamental view whether or not there should be a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190813	It is funny, because I noticed that the questioner also called it in principle earlier when he was on the floor and said that if a majority wants to join, we must have a referendum. But if that is so in principle, why should there not be a referendum, whether a majority wishes to accede or not? What I'm really just saying is that it's not fully elucidated what this has to do with Denmark. This is what the government has chosen to spend a very long time investigating. We would have liked it to go faster, but we look forward to having an investigation in order to be able to decide on this on an enlightened basis. But the principle would be to send it to a referendum, whether you wanted it or not, whether you wanted it or not, if we really had to draw it up on principle rather than actually go down in the substance of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190901	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190903	Thank you. If we can agree in committee that we are making a change, so that there will be a referendum on this, that is to say on Danish membership of the banking union, then Enhedslisten will be happy to support it. When I say it, it's because we mean it. We believe that referendums are good and we are not afraid that the people will be heard, and we have been pleased to have the alternative on our side in relation to the demand for referendums in other cases. So if we can stand together here too, it would be positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522190938	We cannot do that, because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, we need full clarification of the consequences of the banking package before we decide on this, just as we have had a full look at the content, when we have been in the past, including with the Enhedslisten, to propose referendums on other things. What was important to me in the rapporteur's speech was that I do not want to park it somewhere and say that it has nothing to do with sovereignty, ergo one cannot imagine a referendum at all. We can easily imagine that, but we need the analysis that the government has set in motion. And again, I would like to call for perhaps a little faster than autumn 2019, not just for us to discuss it, but for us to be able to do so more quickly, both in parliamentary and European elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191024	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, and the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191040	Conservatives have the same attitude as the other EU-positive parties who have spoken out in this debate, namely that we agree that if sovereignty is given, there must be a referendum. However, it is difficult to decide now whether there should be a referendum on a banking union, because we do not know exactly what a banking union will contain. We must therefore wait and see what the banking union will contain, and only then can we decide whether or not we should have a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191119	There is one brief comment, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191124	I understand that the Conservative People's Party, at the moment at least, is not in favour of a dispute with the Danish reservation about the euro. I can see that the rapporteur is nodding. Can the rapporteur not see that it seems a little strange that Denmark, as a first noneuro country, even a noneuro country that is not entering the euro, will join a banking union that transfers decision-making powers to the European Central Bank if we do not have a seat in it? Well, it can't for one, I have at least heard, EU-sceptic politician like Mr. Rasmus Jarlov give some thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191212	Yes, there is a great deal of thought in connection with joining the banking union. I find it very difficult to take a detailed position on all possible issues relating to the banking union before we know the content of it negotiated. But surely there are some dilemmas. Where are we, where aren't we? How much are we committed to the agreements that will be if we are part of a banking union? So, of course, we have to look at it carefully and see what the advantages and disadvantages are for Denmark, and then we have to take a position when we have a better basis to take a position on.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191249	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191252	Well, then you have to look at this a little bit historically. During the financial crisis there were quite a lot of financial institutions that went downstairs and back home. A great deal of public money was spent on keeping a part of them alive. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov thought it was a good idea at the time to have had Denmark in a banking union, where Denmark should have paid part of the garbage to keep all these banks in southern Europe alive?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191333	It is also very difficult to establish such a hypothetical situation in that we do not know what it was for a banking union that might have existed then and what the cost would have been for Denmark. So I think it is quite difficult to take a position on all the scenarios that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth sets up. Of course we have a desire to pay as little as possible, we act on the basis of Danish interests. We have no desire to pay to a lot of foreign banks if we can be free, but on the other hand we have an interest in ensuring that there is financial stability in Europe and that there are not a lot of banks going bankrupt. It wouldn't be fun for Denmark if Italy's economy collapsed because of a lot of banks going bankrupt.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191415	The next brief remark is from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191419	Thank you. It is actually just to follow up, because often it sounds from parties that support the transfer of more power to the European Union, as the Conservative People's Party does, as if it is good, because then you sit at the table. All we know here is that we're not gonna be sitting at the table. So, the decision whether Danske Bank should be saved or Danske Bank should not be saved in a future financial crisis will not be made here in the Folketing, will not be taken by a Danish government. It will be taken by non-elected non-politicians at the European Central Bank, where Denmark does not have its seat. Is it not a violent decision to put completely outside the country's borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191510	I think that there can be very great advantages in the fact that it is not politicians who make all the decisions. I think there are a great many bad decisions being made by politicians; and especially when it comes to such things as interest rates, the fight against inflation and security against bank crashes, I am not sure that the highest expertise is necessarily in this Chamber. With all due respect to my colleagues around: when I look around, I don't see many people who are the country's leading experts on how to run a financial system. I am not, and it is not just because the Chamber is empty. It is also because we do not have those powers in the Chamber. That is why I believe that there can often be decisions that should be delegated to experts. If you are able to define politically what the objectives are, well then it is also okay that there are some things being done by some people who understand things, instead of there sitting a lot of people here who have no understanding whatsoever of things but who believe that they should determine every detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191609	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191611	After all, we have the Danish politicians elected by the Danish people. But the Danish people have absolutely no influence on who is in the leadership of the European Central Bank. Unelected officials are sitting there. They are designated by the euro area countries, which means that Denmark does not even appoint anyone. Then it really is, sir. Rasmus Jarlov's position that it is better that they sit in Frankfurt and make the decision than that an elected Danish government and an elected Danish Parliament make such a decisive decision as the one whether Danske Bank should be saved or not in a future financial crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191658	It depends on what decisions those people are given the power to make. But yes, I can easily imagine situations where I think it would be a huge advantage for Denmark and the rest of Europe that it is not the Danish Parliament that makes decisions, but that you have some people who understand things that do it instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now, and that is why I am giving the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522191731	It is rare to be surprised in this Chamber, but I have to say that the last remark made by Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov now surprised me quite a bit, so it is almost the policy of the Conservative People's Party that it is a good idea for the European Central Bank, without Danish representation, to be authorised to close Danish banks. The reason for this is that it is the European Central Bank's experts. I have to say, I'm very upset. One rarely gets that, but I am very surprised that this is the view of the Conservative People's Party, also in the light of the fact that the Conservative People's Party has at least pretended to be EU skeptical, but I do not think that much should be added to that. It may be that you choose the same method as the Left, namely to establish an EU sceptic and an EU positive, then there is a little for the voters to choose from. However, what I wanted to say was that on 4 July 2017, the Minister of Business issued a press release stating that the government will decide whether to join the EU banking union, in autumn 2019 skilfully away from a parliamentary election and a European Parliament elections. The government apparently believes that the government can do this without asking the Danish people. But what kind of union does the government intend to relax Denmark into? As you know, the EU banking union consists of a joint financial supervision and a single resolution mechanism for failing banks, specifically the so-called systemic important banks. For Denmark, it would probably be Danske Bank, Nykredit bank, Jyske Bank and Sydbank. In addition, there are plans to establish a joint depositor guarantee to replace the depositor guarantee that applies to Danish bank customers. What, then, is the problem with this? First of all, there is the legal problem. Is this a surrender of sovereignty within the meaning of Article 20 of the Constitution? In our view, there can be no doubt about this. The fact is that we are giving authority to the European Union in terms of access to closing and winding up a number of Danish financial institutions. The competence to take decisions in relation to e.g. the closure of the Nykredit Bank shall be transferred to the European Central Bank. Denmark may appeal against the decision to the Governing Council of the ECB, where Denmark is not represented, as Denmark is not a member of the euro. So we will not be able to take part in the decision on the closure of a Danish bank. We will leave that to other countries to decide. The joint supervision to which the large Danish banks will be subject is part of the European Central Bank. Denmark is not a member of the European Central Bank because we are not in the euro, and it will be the ECB's supreme authority to decide on the largest Danish banks. If Denmark chooses to join the banking union, Denmark will have to participate in the joint resolution authority and contribute to the joint resolution fund. The question is whether Denmark is interested in this. After all, it depends on whether we have confidence in the banks of the other EU countries. The Greek debt crisis showed how careful it is to be to have confidence in the banks of other countries. As you know, both the Greek and Cypriot banking sectors were close to collapse. Today there are still major problems with the Italian banks. As recently as 2017, three Italian banks were shut down with contributions from the Italian State. Does Denmark have an interest in joining a Union where we risk having to pay to save southern European banks? We do not think so in the Danish People's Party. In addition, there is another very decisive argument against the banking union: the Danish mortgage. The mortgage operates in a way that is not known in other countries. Real-credit companies have no liquidity since there are no deposits. Credit companies are very little capitalised as their equity capital is secured in the form of mortgage lending as collateral. This will not enable a mortgage company to be wound up in the same way as a bank is wound up. In other words, if Denmark chooses to join the banking union as the first noneuroland, it has potentially major consequences for ordinary Danes. So even if the government were to think that there is no surrender of sovereignty, which can be very much challenged, then an entry into the banking union would be so intrusive to the Danish population that the population should naturally be asked first. As the debate today has shown, it is not a view that the Danish People's Party stands alone. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal, and thank you for that. The Liberal Alliance should, of course, have supported the proposal as well. As the then European rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Mette Bock, said to Ritzau on 20 December 2013: "If the Prime Minister has just a little respect for the Danes, then she will put the banking union to the vote. I am convinced that a considerable proportion of the Danes agree with the Liberal Alliance that it is unacceptable that the Danes should be made financially responsible for dubious South European banking activities. Now we have an excellent opportunity to ask the Danes for their opinion, and I think it should be taken seriously. In fact, Mrs Mette Bock said this back in 2013 with reference to a later referendum. So if the Liberal Alliance had at that time come through with their policies, Denmark would already have had the referendum on the banking union that Mrs Christina Egelund now thinks it is untimely that we should discuss whether we should have today. Well, that's a little strange, isn't it? But now it is the Liberal Alliance and Mrs Mette Bock who are in the government and now the Liberal Alliance will no longer be involved in the questioning of the people. That's not very clever, is it? In fact, I believe that the Liberal Alliance will have an explanation problem with its electorate. In conclusion, I would ask honourable Members to consider what national interests Denmark can actually have in joining the banking union. We risk having to pay for a lot of bad loans in southern Europe. We are not in the decisions on this unless we adopt the euro, which is hardly what any Danes want, and we risk that Danes will be included in the deposit guarantee fund at European level instead of the guarantee fund that the Danes know and trust today. Thus, we risk having to pay not only for the collapse of the systemically important banks but also for the collapse of smaller foreign financial institutions. Do we really have an interest in this? No. Therefore, if the government wants to introduce the banking union, the government must, of course, leave it up to the electorate to make such a decisive decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192435	There is one for a brief remark. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192440	Well, it was just by chance that some people actually sat there and listened to Mr. Thompson. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's speech, quoting me as saying that I thought the ECB should be allowed to close Danish banks. That's not what I said. I was very, very careful with my choice of words, and I said that it depends on what competences there will be in the banking union and whether we can thus give those competences to the ECB or others that are not elected. But I did not speak specifically about the closure of banks. By the way, I would like to challenge Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, whether it might be possible just once to make a speech without condescending attacks on other parties. I think many would find that refreshing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192525	Unlike Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, who is very rarely following the debates in this Chamber, is of the opinion that other parties should be held accountable for what they say, which is, of course, difficult if they have not heard what they have said. That is why, of course, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that I ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to answer for that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov says. I have to say, I mean, I heard Mr. Rasmus Jarlov correct. Well, sir. Rasmus Jarlov had no fundamental problem handing over the competence to close Danish banks to the European Central Bank, and Mr. Rasmus Jarlov now: Yes, if the competences are present. What are these powers, sir? Rasmus Jarlov's thinking? I liked to know that. I'm confused on a higher level. I just have to say that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is quite confident that the Governing Council of the European Central Bank will decide whether to close Danish banks. In my opinion, this is a very strange EU skeptical view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192628	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192630	There is no point in standing here and telling me in my open face that I mean something other than what I have just told Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth I mean. Otherwise, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth went back and looked at Parliament's television, what was said in my original speech. Now I have explained three times that this is not what Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says as I have said or mean. I gave this challenge, moreover, to make a speech without being condescending to other parties. It is a little disappointing that it is being answered by adding to what I might have hoped, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth could turn down a little once in a while. Apparently, however, the challenge to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192712	Well, fortunately, it's me now, and not Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov, who dictates how to speak, and I think that is very wise. Otherwise, it would certainly go very wrong in this Chamber, I think, if we were all to say the same thing as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Well, I'll take note of that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov has regretted that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov spoke as he did. That is, of course, very sensible of Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to do it, since it, sir. Rasmus Jarlov said it was a terrible nonsense. So it's a good thing that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has become a little smarter here at night.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192744	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, but it may well be that we should encourage a little care in the language when using words such as nonsense and all sorts of other things. Sometimes we need to have a better tone. However, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the European Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192816	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522192831	There are some suggestions that are simply in their title, that you think: that you can only be for that. And that is why a proposal that says that you want more openness, of course very, very hard to start by saying something negative about. So let me start by stating that I am in favour of more openness. In fact, I am very much in favour of openness, because it is central to ensuring confidence and a healthy debate. And, of course, the Ministry of Finance must also present its methods of calculation on a regular basis, just as the Ministry of Finance must be available for information on the calculations that have been made and for further calculations to be made when asked to do so. But I do believe that the Ministry of Finance is already doing this today, so it is available to make calculations, answer questions from the Danish Parliament, be present in the debates and provide information when asked about it. The role of the Ministry of Finance is, among other things, the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. to be a body serving the Folketing and the public in the most informative and effective manner. The Ministry of Finance, on the other hand, does not have the resources to be a data bank, where we use Danes' tax dollars to produce and produce figures regardless of purpose. I fully recognise that there is a political need to be able to look at the Ministry of Finance in the cards, but I believe that such presentation of all the spreadsheets that may be in the Ministry of Finance will only help to promote bureaucracy and not create real, useful openness. The situation can be compared with that of the Public Service Act. This is a very important point, and I would like to make it quite clear to the House that this is a matter for the Commission and the Council of Ministers. Should the Ministry of Finance automatically presenting all figures etc., it would require the recruitment of a very large number of additional employees, including communication staff, just as the Ministry's economists would have to devote more time to systematizing and explaining figures that in practice very rarely will have a relevance in everyday life. Already today it is extremely time-consuming and associated with a high level of resource consumption to make material available where there are concrete requests for it. A general policy to publish everything per year. As regards the resources currently available to the Ministry of Finance, the automatic system will be completely out of proportion. There is really more openness and a better basis for political opinion when we present key estimates together with the main assumptions and methods behind it, with related explanations and reservations, more openness than there would be with a flood of excelarks, model runs and code files on the Internet. The extent of the calculations being made is quite enormous. In the Ministry of Finance, 200 employees will spend a large part of their efforts on economic estimates and assessments, and in addition, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, the Ministry of Taxation, the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Energy and others. I can see from my day-to-day ministry that there are not too many employees for the tasks that already exist. At the same time, I must also say that as a politician I have been in favour of the model we have in Denmark, namely that the ministers and ministries are available to answer any questions that Members of Parliament might want to ask, calculate the models and runs that are of interest, and put forward impartial estimates that can be used in the political debate. You have to use the same methods, use the same estimates, no matter who sits in government, no matter what color the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister may have. When looking at the economic estimates and projections being made, they are generally state of the art in an international comparison. And then, of course, we have the system in which civil servants count, but the ministers responsible must be accountable for the assessments that are being made and also for the policies that are being conducted both to the Folketing and, moreover, to the public. So there is a balance and division of labour between the executive and the legislature. It is a good system and we must stick to it. Having said that, as I said, I agree that we must have as much and as good openness as possible without creating more bureaucracy. We must ensure that transparency is satisfactory at all times, and this must be done without the real knowledge that is an interest being drowned in knowledge, which is information that is still not being used for anything. And that is why I would like to take this opportunity to make some suggestions as to how I think we should increase transparency more. First of all, I would like to suggest that we should, for example: As normal practice, it ensures that there are more detailed annexes to what, for example, is to be found. As a basis for the so-called family type calculations, which, where relevant, what is it for housing costs, what is it for energy costs, what is it for a specific income that is behind the individual family types that are? In the same way, I think that, secondly, when we talk about changes to the tax system, we should take on board not only what it is for some overall behavior effects, but also what effects are pulling one way and what effects are pulling the other way. This brings greater openness, greater clarity, greater knowledge, which can then be made political assessments on the basis of. Thirdly, I think that we, for example. When we look at investments, we also have to look at the impact of an investment in terms of increasing the capacity of society, be it investment in research, investment in buildings or investment in roads and railways. We are not doing that today, and I think that we should continue to be able to do so forward-lookingly, because I believe that we can actually provide some knowledge which is also useful and which will qualify the public and, above all, the political debate. Now it will also be a little technical, but another example is the prerequisites for the so-called elasticities of external trade, which are used in our calculations in the ADAM model, which we must ensure to keep the outside world up to date. This may be some of the things that not very many Danes, but a number of different economists have had a particular interest in what is. And in this way we can continue to be open about the conditions behind the calculations and make the debate more enlightened, but without doing so in an ill-thought-out and expensive way, which will be true of an official work, the task of which is actually to help us politicians make decisions on the best possible basis. That is why openness is good, but it must be openness without unnecessary bureaucracy and openness that brings out the knowledge that can help to qualify the debate and that provides information clarity and not information pollution. And that is why the government would like to continue working on the basis of the motion for a resolution on a joint text of the report which, I hope, will bring together all the parties, or at least a great many of the parties of the Folketing, on a text that sets the framework not only for the work of this government but also for future governments with openness in the political and economic debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522193607	Thank you. There are, for the moment, two inscribed for short remarks, now there are three. The first is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522193614	Thanks for the speech. It was such an apple-onion-apple speech, I think you call it, that is, first some praise, and then why you don't want to be there, and then something positive anyway. I would like to acknowledge the willingness of the Finance Minister in some areas, but the devil is in the detail, and that is where I am not quite sure that we will achieve what is the intention of the SF's proposal. You can draw some examples. After all, when the unemployment benefit reform was made in 2010, there was a rather massive miscalculation. If there had been transparency about the calculations, there could have been economists who had said that the criteria you have used, we would like to attack because we do not think they are correct. Or, as the Minister for Finance himself said, there are family types, so we ourselves should go in and judge that the kind of household of a HK does not seem to hold water in the real world. So that depends on where the inter-accounts are in what the Minister for Finance is proposing. Where are the criteria? The Minister for Finance mentioned family types, but in relation to elasticity and the many other things: will we not be missing something if the middle bills are not there?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522193747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522193748	Yeah, you can do that. For example, the Ministry of Employment recently published an assessment of the cash aid ceiling, which subsequently, when looked through, turned out to be based on wrong criteria and therefore showed what all the indications are, I must say, but we have not calculated it through, an too low effect of the cash aid ceiling. And it was only discovered because there were some who were able to go down and see what criteria were behind it. That is why it is important that the criteria be put forward. When I read the comments on the proposal, I see that there is a great difference between what is in column one and column two as regards the detail of what needs to be put forward. I understand that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen signs for the apples, but not for the shit or what was said. The fact is, we sign for what we really think is relevant. I recognise that there is a relevant discussion about how much openness we can create around our calculations. That is why I think we should try to find each other in a common text of the report which sets the framework for what an information line is and what the level of information we are putting forward is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522193902	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522193903	Thank you. The Minister of Finance also says that if you put it all forward, then the majority of the Danish population will not understand it because it is complicated matter. But the idea is also that in the broad debate there are economists who sit anywhere other than at Slotsholmen or in here and can also take part in the debate and say that ah, we have some research, or we know about some studies that show something else. They can thus help all of us who are not economists to understand where the pitfalls may be in it. So it is not a question of making it so simple that everyone can understand it, because then we will lose the middle bills.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522193957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522193959	Before entering the Folketing, I had a short, yet very useful career as a banker. At one point it was decided that now the banks in Denmark really had to inform the citizens of the annual percentage costs, ÅOP, which meant that we printed many, many pages about even small loans, i.e. technical calculations. And my clear impression was that for the vast majority, the result was that they were less enlightened by getting the many sides with some technique they did not understand than by the review that was earlier. This does not mean, of course, that we should not also have a dialogue with economists who can look through this, but I just think it is important to say that if we are to arrive at what is at the core, what is useful information, we are just going to find out how we are going to provide the information on what can create the good political discussion. I am also pleased that there are a great many economists who will also be involved in the political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194056	The next short remark is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194101	Allow me to acknowledge the Minister for Finance's approach to finding a consensus on a broader understanding of openness. I think that is positive, and I am, in fact, pleased to hear that the Minister for Finance himself is bringing up the family type examples. It's no secret that we've had a little talk about back and forth it was now the HK that no one could find that got the most out of the government's tax proposal, and all that stuff. So I think it is actually positive that we are putting forward a more open approach to this. I am curious, however, because the goodwill of the Minister for Finance extends to, for example, the United Kingdom. to include the government's 2025 plan? It is no secret that we in the Danish Parliament have had many discussions about how to actually achieve a target of 55,000-60,000 people. So, in other words, the next time a 2025 plan is to be presented, it also presupposes greater openness on how, for example, we can achieve this. does such an increase in labour supply arrive at?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194209	Yes, it also presupposes that we are ready to have greater transparency on 2025 plans and the upcoming 2030 plan, 2035 plan and 2040 plan. We should just bear in mind that from the very first 2005 plan presented by the then Nyrup government, there was a level of political ambition to increase the supply of work by a certain number of people, without putting forward any concrete proposals from the outset on how to do so. It can be said that what has actually been the exception in all these medium-term projections has been the overall plan of the then V government from summer 2016, which just had concrete proposals for each and every extra in the labour supply. Otherwise, the norm has been to have had a political objective of how far one would like to go without saying from the outset in exactly what ways it should be achieved. These have been political objectives. It was in the 2005 plan, it was in the 2010 plan, and it was also in the 2020 plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194314	We will continue, and the next is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194320	Thank you to the Minister for Finance for the speech. There is something in the speech that puzzles me, because I can, in fact, agree with the approach of the Minister of Finance, namely that if you flood people with all sorts of information, it may be difficult to find the right ones, but that is not what I see from the SF's proposal. What the SF's proposal suggests is that the calculations and the assumptions underlying the government's proposals are presented openly. So that means that nothing new should be produced, that no further figures should be produced unless we ask for it, and of course we can always do so. And if that is not what the SF's proposal is about, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: could it not be imagined that the Ministry of Finance put forward all the calculations that are used and applied when the government makes its legislative proposals openly?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194410	But when the government makes a bill, for example. When we are to present the Economic Statement, which the government will present next week, it is, of course, a wide range of different underlying model runs, which are constantly addressed and which are constantly being used to sum up the presentations that may be available. At some point you shut down the calculations and say that this is then the basis and level of knowledge we have based on Danmarks Statistik and other things, and that is from where we move on. As soon as Economic Statement has been delivered, new data runs will start based on new information from Danmarks Statistik and national accounts and other things that will keep the things that have actually been left up to date and change. That is why I believe that the full publication of all current databases and spreadsheets will be an incredibly large task without any particular knowledge gain from the political discussion. Therefore, what I think we should discuss with each other in a report is what level of political openness about the calculations in the Ministry of Finance we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194525	I mean, I would think it was really good that there was complete openness on the basis of the legislative proposals made by the government. Another question I would like to ask is: now the Minister of Finance opens up calculations and assumptions, etc., I hear, at some level. Could the Ministry of Finance open the door to us always calculating the consequences for the environment when there are legislative proposals in the Danish Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194555	It is in fact the case that part of the Ministry of Justice's legislative instructions is that there should be environmental impact assessments and that, as part of the legislative proposal, if it has anything to do with the environment at all, there is an assessment of what is positive and negative, just as there is an assessment of whether it has socio-economic, economic and burden-related consequences, and just as, I hope, when we come to the next Assembly, there will also be an assessment of the consequences in relation to the UN's global objectives. That is why, in my view, it is already part of the prerequisites that we have the environmental consequences highlighted in the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194633	Mr President, on a brief note, the next item is the debate on the report (Doc. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194637	Does the Minister of Finance consider that the way in which figures are presented today is a sign of a high degree of openness? I think, at least, that we have many legislative proposals, where we should subsequently ask the basis for the economic calculations, and where there is some very interesting information that we should have had from the start. That's one. The second is that we on Enhedslisten have just published a report on the Treasury calculator and how it is based on very uncertain assumptions and is based on an uncertain basis compared to the way the calculator works. There, too, we have had to ask hundreds of questions to dig up how to actually count in the Ministry of Finance, when it comes to what happens when you lower the benefits, or when the tax is reduced, or to what extent an increase in the supply of labour passes through and when, and the kind of things that there has not just been openness about. So what does the Minister for Finance really think the current level of information is? Is it good, is it bad, or is there significant room for improvement?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194747	I think there is room for improvement. But in general, it's really, really good. What is important is that there are the same methods of calculation, regardless of who sits in the Ministry of Finance as Minister, regardless of which government there is. And I understand that Enhedslisten is sorry that the objective calculation of Enhedslisten's policy shows that the policy is not coherent. And instead of taking the consequence and changing policy, Enhedslisten wants to change methods of calculation. Of course, it is an alternative approach to say that when the calculator rains incorrectly, you want it thrown out and you want someone else in. But the thing is that exactly the same model is calculated, whether the proposal comes from the Danish People's Party, from the Alternative or from the Enhedslisten. And when my party, the Left, is in opposition, it is calculated in exactly the same way. There will be no change in the assumptions and conditions laid down in the Ministry of Finance's calculation model. And that is because it is based on consensus. It is based on consensus. This means, for some, that there are too few dynamic effects with being too careful, perhaps even too over-cautious in relation to the effects of lowering the tax, and others will say that it may be uncertain whether the calculations so far can be used. And that is why the Ministry of Finance has put itself on a middle track, a consensus track, in relation to the assessments to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194907	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522194909	What our report shows is that the ways in which the Ministry of Finance calculates dynamic effects on e.g. in relation to how many more people would get to work or how many more hours people would work if the tax was reduced • rests on a highly uncertain basis. After all, we have a problem with a calculator which is not unpolitical today. It is political because, for example, it is political. only includes dynamic effects in relation to lowering the tax while, for example, reducing the tax. does not include dynamic effects of public consumption. The question I would like to ask here in the second place is about the report mentioned by the Minister for Finance. If such a report is to be made, it might also be a good idea to get in that when the government makes legislative proposals, or when the government presents proposals, we always get both the calculations as the direct costs, the calculations after re-run and the calculations with the behavioural effects • like as the finance minister describes behavior effects that go in both directions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195010	The Ministry of Finance is not a research institution. It is a ministry which counts on both the Danish Parliament's questions and government policy and makes assessments based on what is of consensus in relation to inter alia. issues of behaviour changes and dynamic effects of tax changes. Looking at dynamic effects of public spending, I fully recognise that there can be dynamic effects. No one has made credible measurements of what it might be for the very specific changes that exist. Because one cannot just say that one billion extra on education is the same, regardless of whether one spends it on pre-school education or on university education. Nor can it be said that one billion spent on the municipalities, spent by 98 autonomous municipalities, all of which fall out in a certain way. Therefore, the behaviour effects of public consumption have not been investigated and verified in the same way. To the extent that it is examined and to the extent that it is provided, I think it should be fully accounted for in the same way as there are clear indications of what the dynamic effects are of lower tax on work.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195123	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments right now. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195135	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. Thank you to the SF for giving us the opportunity to debate this issue with this motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution proposes that the government should always present the economic calculations on the basis of legislative proposals, documents, government proposals and plans, as well as political agreements and settlements, so that final spreadsheets and model runs are to be presented, at the same time as a proposal, an act, a government proposal or a plan is published. In the case of political conciliation and agreements, a certain amount of grace may be required, according to the proposers, to enable the calculations to be adjusted in relation to the elements of the agreements concluded. So much for the proposal. The debate on openness and the relationship between the Parliament's information needs and the government is central. It is important that we, as parliamentary politicians, receive good and comprehensive information from ministers, both for the sake of concrete legislative work, for the sake of control of the policies pursued and for the sake of wider democratic dialogue. That is why we are pleased that the debate is being held, because the background is that the political processes are evolving continuously. As society and our legislation have become more complex, it is natural that political agreements and conciliation are filling up more and more, and therefore much remains to be done precisely in this respect, including the economic calculations, which may have been closer to the committees in the past. This changes the conditions for openness and transparency and is, of course, a natural development. However, this should not mean that we should compromise with the parliamentary need for information and information. Unfortunately, we sometimes see that major political proposals or agreements are then put before the public without the part which deals with financing and economic calculations, where the part which deals with the economy is kept out of the public conversation or only presented in closed meetings, and that is an unhealthy trend. That is why I also have to say that I sometimes miss the current Minister for Defence, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, Minister of Finance. Here we were always guaranteed a very detailed overview of the financing of even those reforms that were very unpopular in the population. When you look at the government's 2025 plan, you can, for example. do not understand what unpleasantness it is necessary to achieve an increased job offer of 55,000-60,000 people, and when later attempts were made to convince the Danes that the group that made the most of the government's tax proposal was the much-mentioned HK's, it turned out to be a calculation example that was so creative that even the trade union HK had to give up finding a member who could actually match the profile. We have also seen in the context of the business package that behind closed doors, as it has later emerged, work was done on cuts in allowances for young people, and, most recently, there have been examples of the government's energy initiative, where it has been extremely difficult to get answers to how the economy really is connected. We need to correct that, and we need to agree on the rules of the game, regardless of which government is, by the way, sitting. It is a good practice that there is always a clear economic table in a government proposal so that everyone can see how a proposal is screwed up and who has to pay. In the same way, it is good that the key prerequisites and methods, whether they be proposals or examples presented, are not hidden out of the way or made-up. They must be presented openly, and then we must be able to ask questions in the legislative process and in the committees if we are to have something clarified in depth and get solid answers and information out of the ministers here. In February 2015, the Bureau of Parliament and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure also dealt with some of these issues more in principle. It is very good to remember what they achieved, and therefore I quote: there must be constant attention to the commitment of the current government to the timely, fair and loyal fulfilment of the Parliament's information needs. Quote out. Those words still seem to me to be a good recommendation to the current government as well. But if we take the motion for a resolution as a face-to-face, that is to say that all economic calculations prior to political proposals have to be presented, it could be immensely large amounts of information because of the large number of inter ventions that may have been made, and I fully understand that a government may wish that material transmitted to the Folketing should also be described and explained so that it can be interpreted and understood correctly. In its extremes, it can trigger a great deal more bureaucracy today and can prove both expensive and difficult and perhaps even of a nature in which we get what is called information overloading, and relevant criticism points risk being overlooked, and nobody has any interest in that. That is why we support the intention of the proposal to create more openness, but it will probably require work to be done to clarify how it is operationalised. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party would prefer to build on the good intentions of the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and to try to draw up a joint report on the motion for a resolution, because it is a good idea to ensure more openness and transparency.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195648	There is one for a brief remark. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195651	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur for the many nice words. Of course, we in the SF think that our proposal is the best. Now Mr. Benny Engelbrecht also referred to what the Minister for Finance said, namely that a lot of comments had to be made on the figures here. In fact, that is not what we are proposing. We propose that the relevant figures should, of course, be there and that it should also be stated how the runs are used. It is not meant to be translated into something, what to say, everyday Danish, or to add a lot of comments to it, or to have a communication adviser in it. In other words, it is intended that economists can sit and check these things too, and the rapporteur himself mentioned this so that one can count on one's own policy, in relation to how the government counts on one's, and thus have a better basis for comparison, for example. if the opposition wishes to propose alternative financial legislation. Well, it's supposed to be using the numbers and runs that already exist in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195808	What may be the challenge if one sees, if I may say so, only an intercept, is that one does not necessarily know why a calculation has been carried out. That is why I understand and that is just what I am pointing out that a Ministry of Finance, if they present anything, may have a need to explain why it is then they have made the relevant driving. I remember myself very clearly an example in which I asked a question as a member of the Folketing. It turned out that the European Parliament had difficulty obtaining statistics on the number of accidents in Denmark and accident statistics on the number of children injured in the case of blinds. So to help a Member of the European Parliament, I asked a question about it to the Ministry of Business and Industry, as I recall. This must have been a very frivolous journalist, but nevertheless it led a journalist to assume that because I had asked a question to clarify this statistical information, it had to mean that the Social Democrats intended to ban blinds, which would, of course, be a completely absurd situation. But because there was not this, if I may say so, non-operational information on the issue, some people chose to interpret it in this way. So I understand that if you present sober information, you also have a need to stress why you actually have this middle bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195945	Thank you. Does the author wish to speak in favour of his second brief remark? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522195947	I do not think it is quite comparable to ask a question about the safety of blinds and children in this regard, and that we have put forward a business or a financial law or something and say: these are the formulas we have used, and these are the figures and criteria we have used. I am convinced that we would have more openness with the resolution here than with what the Minister of Finance outlined and which would, of course, also be a step forward. Too often the devil is hiding in the detail: What is the weighting of a particular criterion, or how has the rounding happened? And it can run into billions in one direction or another. So that was actually more of a comment. I therefore think that if we do not have it all, some basic inter ventions will be missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200052	But the reason why I chose exactly the example that I took before was just to stress that it is not always that those who write something have good intentions, if I may say so, and that is why you may need information. But I would also like to say that just because there are a lot of disclaimers or whatever that may be, it does not mean that there can be no people who still choose to abuse the calculations. The most classic example of this was probably when the Liberal Alliance received an answer on their economic model, where there were so many disclaimers in the reply from the Ministry of Finance, about why it did not even last, but these were never mentioned by the Liberal Alliance itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200142	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall continue to speak, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200150	This is a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on full public disclosure of economic calculations. As the Minister for Finance said, that cannot be opposed. Of course, both the Folketing and the people must know what we are making our decision on. But then, of course, it is about how to do it. Several of the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned this. First, of course, there is the level of information, that is to say, how far you have to go down. I have read the comments on the proposal and, in fact, I think that the SF has also made some reflections on it, i.e. that earlier versions, drafts etc. etc. You don't have to send. Because if you have bad intentions, you just have to send as much as you possibly can, because then it will be incalculable. The minister's example was very good: you have to explain the interest rate, ÅOP interest rates, and then you can send out twenty pieces of paper, or you can say very briefly what this interest rate is actually going to be when you calculate it on an annual basis. I really think that the comments are trying very well to get rid of that too. But if you follow the debate that way, there is also the question of what is actually the discussion here. I think that the debate may actually show very well what challenges we are facing. First it is the dynamic effects, and the biggest challenge is that we now use the dynamic effects to finance with from day one. This was not done in the past when the finance ministers had a sign saying: where should the money come from? Then a crown was found, and then a crown was used, and then the dynamic effects came, and then the money was used again, i.e. from the dynamic effects. Then it has also become the case that everything must be explained, and we must also be able to explain what is coming in the future. But it's really hard to explain what's coming in the future. Whether you're a government or you're in opposition or you're a support party, it's hard to explain what's going on tomorrow. That is why we have started with, among other things. family types and examples of how this is going to play through. I think that SF might have to be careful to think that this could be such an exact science, so you can now make some arithmetic models that show exactly how this is going to work. It must always be an estimate of what the legislation in question will provide and, of course, there will always be different parameters that can be put into it. That is why, of course, it is also important that we, who are going to vote on the legislative proposals, know what parameters the government has put in. Then you can agree or disagree with the parameters that have been introduced, but no one can say that one parameter is more correct than the other. It is, of course, up to those who put them in. However, I would like to acknowledge that changing governments have not simply changed the criteria contained in the calculator used in the Ministry of Finance. It would, of course, give some inappropriateness of a very, very large scale if you could not trust that it was the same way they calculated. The Danish People's Party is very much looking forward and I really think that the Minister of Finance also gave a positive impression that we are looking at how to do this operationally too in the future, so that no matter what position you have in the Danish Parliament, you have the opportunity to get behind the government in office at any time and see what it really is. But once again we do not want to do so, I think that the authors of the motion have made themselves aware of the fact that we or others should be overwhelmed with something that makes it harder to see through, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200501	There is one more brief comment. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200506	Thank you, and thank you for the speech and gratitude that I heard at least parts of one. Now it is not the intention that we, as Finance rapporteurs, should be overwhelmed with all sorts of things; it could be done electronically; it could be on the website; it could be in some form, where it was best that there was simply openness, so that the outside world, at least those who know how to combine these figures and understand the formulas, etc., could look along, because the rapporteur is quite right. Economics is not an exact science. That's the best guy in the ideal world. That is also why criticism actually makes the models better, that is to say that someone can interfere in the debate and say: Hey, that and that way. This is also the way the models in the Ministry of Finance have developed. The rapporteur said that it was good that changing governments did not count in different ways, but they do. If you look back 20 years at least, then there have been some pretty big changes. In the optimal world, it is because you have become wiser, you have gained new knowledge, you have made new studies, etc. Is the rapporteur concerned if it becomes what the Minister of Finance is proposing that we do not know the inter-bank accounts and whether we will then be able to take part in the debate on a qualified basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200645	I would say that in the Danish People's Party we can also use our common sense. So do we. There is, of course, a debate on tax relief. If you grant top tax relief, it has good dynamic effects, if you lighten the tax at the bottom, it actually has no value in terms of dynamic effects. Today it is striking that we have heard the Minister for Employment say that it will work if the longterm unemployed receive DKr 1 400. more a month. It has had incredibly good and positive dynamic effects. After all, it is striking that one can have such a discussion on both sides with different people from the government. That is why the economy is also a question of whether we are also elected to make some decisions about what we want to do. We're not so afraid we won't get all the middle bills. I would also like to say in relation to what is stated in the proposal here, Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht also referred to the fact that the government in office must at all times be allowed to ask questions, even if we are taking part in the negotiations, to make calculations of something that may not be politically targeted, but would like to have a calculation made. And there I think that we should also be allowed to do so in a closed room and get answers to the questions that we may have, even if we do not want to use them politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200741	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200743	Yes, but now the intention is that, when you have put forward a financial bill or a major economic plan as a government, then, not in the negotiating room, you have that discussion in the process that might be as there was, for example, with. the tax agreement or business package. There again I would like to remind you of the whole debate on the director and the HK and family types, etc. So it is precisely with respect that there must also be a confidential space. I think we should also write that in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200823	The Danish People's Party therefore agrees that when proposals are put forward by the government in office at all times, one should be able to see through what the proposal is about, especially because now, from changing governments, one has had a tendency to explain almost completely in detail how it is going to take place at the cadastre level and at the individual individual level, what the gain is or what to pay. And when you do that, you also have to be able to answer questions about how you figured out that person A gets this win and person B gets this minus win, for example. Then you have to be able to answer it, and you have to be able to read it. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200856	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522200909	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for making the proposal. I am not going to study the reasons why the proposal is being put forward here from the platform of the Danish Parliament. One can, of course, get the feeling that the SF also wants the political platform, that as a non-governmental party, at least for the moment, they would like to draw a picture that they are in favour of full openness and to face it must be a government-supporting party or more, who, like to stand and defend the existing, defend the system, defend that we should not change anything. But I really do believe in the best of things now, even with regard to the motive of the proposer in this context, and that is why, as others have said before me, I would say that we are of course in favour of openness. It was, of course, lacking, one might say, somewhere that our democracy is fundamentally based on, in other words, that we can have that openness and also have the confidence in the calculations and the other things that are being put forward for the political discussion. And as we also heard the author of the motion, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, say herself a moment ago, which, incidentally, I fully agree with. As an economist, economics is not necessarily an exact science, because of course it is based on a lot of things. This is among other things. best man's best assessment in the given situation, which is also presented in these different assessments that are being made. So, we on the Left are absolutely ready to look at whether there are some things that can be done better in this field, but also on the basis of the idea that there must be quality and not just quantity in what is being put forward in front of us. I think that most of us know it too well from many contexts in life when, for example, you know it. insurance, a mortgage or, in any case, a manual on some simple tool or toy, or whatever, where the instructions for use are enormously large. But the point is not, as it were, that we should not then get those things out, even if they are small, but closer to it, seen with my glasses, that the information that is then given should also be relevant, that is, relevant in such a broader context. It has to be useful for something. The discussion is, of course, a little, as I heard before, about inter-calculations and what you put in the word inter-calculations. I don't have a problem with the fact that you're putting out different intercepts. I mean, I don't think there's anyone in this Chamber, at least I know my colleagues badly who sit there and have something to hide, but I think it's important that we get the information, including the inter-accounts that might be relevant, in a way that makes sense when we discuss it afterwards, i.e. by actually having the same platform to discuss. I think it would in some way be irresponsible if it were to change the method or to change the arithmetical scale every time there had been a parliamentary election. And that is why I am very pleased that we have a long tradition in the Danish Parliament for having common methods of calculation that are continuous. Of course, they are also adjusted and adapted to the situation we have discussed on previous occasions, and we have also signed up to the fact that SF works well with the issues in different contexts, in the Finance Committee and elsewhere, but it has to be a common and continuous method of calculation, so that, whether it is one or the other color or who is sitting in the government offices, it is the same yardstick that one works on. It should not be because we can now promote a political view that we can then adjust a little to the conditions of one parliamentary term and then adjust them again for the next parliamentary term. I also think that we should use such an opportunity here, in spite of everything, to stress that we have a great many parliamentary tools to be able to get the relevant information on various issues, various proposals that are being put forward through consultation, committee issues, hearings, and there are Question Time and all sorts of different things. Nor do I hear anyone saying that we now have a situation where that is not the case, but it is just important to get along, I think we actually have a number of different options that we can use in this process. However, as I have said, we on the Left are very ready to discuss how we could adapt it or do things even better in terms of greater openness, but we should note from the point of view that openness must also be used for something, that is to say, that it must be relevant and not just quantity measurement. That is why, perhaps not surprisingly, we too, like what the Minister of Finance has proposed, will be willing to look at whether we cannot find a common consensus text in the form of a report, in other words to understand that we can also find each other, whether you are red or blue or in a completely different political color. Because I think that when you look at the proposal and what lies behind it, I can also conclude with it, in other words, in relation to the research on the subject, that we share the view that it is important that we have openness, that we continue to have openness, and that if we can do even more in the direction where it is relevant, we must of course do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201420	There is one more brief remark. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201423	Thank you. Quite frankly, there is no other motive than that I think it would be good for openness and for democracy and also for confidence in the people's rule that there is openness on these matters. In fact, I have been working on it since 2011 and was also in line with a Social Democratic Finance Minister, who at that time did not go as far as we had agreed, in relation to what was going to happen to the arithmetic models; that is another story. So it's something that's very close to me and the SF. And it can be said, like the rapporteur, that it should not be a red or a blue agenda either, because at some point we all end up in opposition, and then it is very nice to know how it is raining at any time. Unfortunately, politics has been slightly reduced to economics. We often experience • and it is not a criticism of economists and economics; economy is a super important tool • that it ends up with a proposal being swept off the field because it is too expensive or it costs it and it costs it. If you do not first discuss what you, as a Liberal or a Socialist, think is really the right thing to do and how you can find the money, then it will be dangerous, because we have not been given any insight into how to come to the conclusion that that and we cannot afford it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201552	I do not disagree with that at all. That is also why we are not only trying to signal, but also to say quite openly that if we can do something in this direction, there is no one more interested in securing it than we do. But I want to say, and I am glad that the questioner also says here that politics is about much more than numbers. Politics is attitudes, and of course it is important that we have some figures, some calculations, we can rely on, but I would almost venture the claim that I do not think that many change the substantive attitude to any fundamental issues in their party policy, because there is a calculation that might support the top tax relief effect being greater than anything else. That is not my impression, and that is also what I heard Mr. René Christensen say before. But that does not, of course, change the fact that it is important that we have as good a basis as possible to stand on, so that we can just take the political discussion on a common basis. But it is also so important that we do not get a lot, you might say, of guesswork, as the Minister for Finance said, of 1 billion. kr. So it's not just a billion. kr. in consumption, it depends on how to use it etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201711	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201713	That is clear, but it would also appear natural, because if it is a public school initiative you are making or whether it is a research reform or about vocational schools, then it would give itself that way. What I'm saying now, I'm really not saying to be polemical, but it's just the best example I can think of. I think there are some parties I know at least that the Radicals have had an internal discussion about what might have seen differently in the benefit reform, if you had known about the figures we saw afterwards, i.e. the huge spread between the number that you had calculated would fall out of the benefit system and what really happened. And again, and it is not to open that discussion and be polemical: I just think it can have an impact on where you stand politically, depending on what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201803	Of course I am not going to deny that it can, nor was it meant that way either, but I believe that we have some basic positions, and it is good that it is the positions that drive the political machinery, and it is then supported by some figures and calculations. I am thinking, for example. I have at least taken note of what I have heard when the report of the wise men arrives, namely that various parties typically take the part of the report of the wise men which, as it were, can be used in their political activities and that some others then do the opposite. Having said that, as I have said, we are ready to look at what is possible beyond the many possibilities that I think we already have in an otherwise well-functioning democracy like the Danish one.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201837	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments at the moment. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522201846	Thank you. Today we are discussing a proposal from the SF for full publicity on economic calculations, and it might be very good to read out what the motion for a resolution is really about: the Danish Parliament always requires the government to present the economic calculations underlying legislative proposals, documents, government proposals and plans, as well as political agreements and conciliation, in a way that ensures full transparency, except in cases where specific, concrete reasons such as the security of the empire, the financial interests of the state and the like. speaks against such publication. It is, in fact, very broadly worded. And then there are some of the other rapporteurs who have been immersed in the comments, saying that the proposers think we should bring all the assumptions into the light, that is. spreadsheets etc., runs with ADAM and other models etc. And with that one can say that it could turn into an information overload, that is to say. Conversely, if you just start from the text of the adoption, you could say that it is actually rather unconcrete and that what we lack is perhaps in fact very precise rules on how to get these figures. For example: It would be nice if, every time there was a proposal or a legislative proposal, we were always given the consequences of direct costs, post-reverse expenses and post-reverse expenses and behavior. If it were just a standard model for how we were presented with figures, we would have come a long way in many contexts. So the idea of a report following on from this, I think it's kind of a good idea. This is something we support from the Enhedslisten. It is also obvious that, if this proposal is put to the vote, we will of course vote in favour of it, because it would be a clear step in the right direction and it would send a clear signal of what it is that the Folketing wants here, if it were, there would be a majority in favour of it. Unfortunately, that does not seem to be the case, but it is quite clear that we need greater openness, and two good examples, which have also been mentioned in the debate, are from the benefit reform. It was presented as if it would mean incredibly little that there were very few people who would fall out of the benefit system and appear to have no benefits, and what happened? Thousands and thousands of people fell out of the benefit system and out to no benefit. We saw it in connection with the 2025 plan, where the government presented things in such a way that the HK did indeed look like it had to have more in percentage and in kroner and ear, which of course was quite wrong and a misleading way of misrepresentation, a non-correct way of presenting things. So we need more openness. In fact, we also need more speed, because we have to say that we can also see that when, for example, we get there. On the one hand, Enhedslisten asks questions about a 2025 plan about the underlying calculations, it can take an incredible amount of time before we get an answer. But strangely enough, just after an agreement or settlement has been reached following the government's initiative, all the answers to the questions come almost minute after minute, almost at the same time as, for example, there is a situation in which there is a problem. will be briefed in the ministry where the agreement has been concluded. And that's remarkable. So one thing is about openness, but another is really about, we must call it honesty and fairness and speed in answering questions from the Folketing. Then there is one thing which also pervades this debate and which I think is worth pointing out. It's this thing with the Treasury, like it's supposed to be such a neutral body that serves the Folketing. All we have to do is remember that the Ministry of Finance is government people. They work for the government, so if the government has settled on a certain line, it is the one that is being worked after in the Ministry of Finance. There is no such uncontrollable conversation between the Folketing and the Ministry of Finance. And that is why it is also political in principle what is going on in the Ministry of Finance, for example. Some choices have been made in relation to the methods of calculation used, some methods of calculation which have also been extensively discussed over time. An example of this is the report published by Enhedslisten. Some of the financial rapporteurs who are sitting in the Chamber today were present at the launch of the report. The report bears the title "The political calculator," and it does so because, through a thorough review, after several years of asking hundreds of questions about how the Ministry of Finance calculates, we finally got and formed a fair overview of how the Ministry of Finance calculates, what assumptions and assumptions lie behind the calculator being used in the Ministry of Finance. And what the report shows is that there are a large number of problems in the calculation methods and models used by the Ministry of Finance to assess the economic effects or consequences of political proposals and that, overall, the problems give rise to a political bias which overestimates the positive effects of tax reductions and lower benefits for the unemployed and which, at the same time, underestimates the positive effects of public spending and investment and creates serious uncertainty about the credibility of economic forecasts. It would have been nice if it were not the case that the Ministry of Finance had to be forced into the trough with hundreds of questions from the Danish Parliament, but could simply put forward method notes on how they calculate. So the whole creation of this report and the way it is done is in itself proof that we lack some openness on the part of the Ministry of Finance and how the government calculates and presents its calculations.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522202439	Thank you. There's one with a brief remark, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522202445	The Enhedslisten doesn't document anything. Enhedslisten has made a report that is not evidence of anything. If anything is political, it is the work that Enhedslisten has done. There is broad consensus on the arithmetic model among professional economists. Perhaps there is not in the Enhedslisten, I do not know how many professional economists are in the Enhedslisten Parliament Group, but among professional economists in general there is a broad consensus on the way that is calculated in the Ministry of Finance. But that's not really what I wanted to say. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Rune Lund himself mentioned the discussion on the daily allowance, and I am, in effect, pleased that Mr. Rune Lund mentions. For that was an excellent example of politicians not understanding the arithmetic models. It wasn't the math models that, as such, were wrong with. But that was the way politicians used the answers that came from the Ministry of Finance, which were completely wrong. After all, the Ministry of Finance has never said that 4,000 would fall out in 2011 and 2010. After all, this is an all-other-equality situation, and we were not in any other equal situation at the time, and then more will fall out, and the Ministry of Finance has never claimed anything else. So this is an excellent example of politicians not understanding the arithmetic models, and then they say that there is something wrong with the arithmetic models. But what is wrong with this is that there are some politicians who have not chosen to spend their time sitting down on their faces and understanding what these models are really about, and then you politicise the models. But it's not the arithmetic models' fault.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522202620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522202623	However, it is a huge problem if you have some arithmetic models that overestimate the so-called positive effects, even on a very loose basis, such as lowering benefits or lowering taxes, or overestimate how quickly an increase in the supply of labour could lead to an increase in employment. This is a huge problem, as our report demonstrates, if these assumptions are based on a very, very uncertain empirical basis. It is a huge problem if we see it in comparison with other countries which, of course, do not have the tendency to apply dynamic effects, as is the case here in Denmark, and which have, I must call it a more sober approach to the way of calculating, which is different from the way the Ministry of Finance in our small country calculates. This is just in all modesty the discussion which has been absent for many years, in which, as it were, there has been a form of hegemony in which there has been a closeness, which has also made it impossible for a real professional discussion of how it is calculated, and thus also ruled out a proper discussion of how politicising the way it is calculated is, in relation to the fact that it has enormous political implications. We have, for example. in the former Thorning government, we would like to have a temporary cash benefit for some of the people who fell out of the benefit system. This was something which, in direct expenditure, cost just under 11 million. kr., but the calculator sure cost 610 million. kr. because of the behavior effects, and this would mean that many cash aid recipients would be less inclined to take a job at all. This is just one of many examples of how that calculator is politicised and how it is also problematic, also in terms of common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522202814	I would just like to appeal to you to keep to your speaking time. It was hard to cross here. Does the author wish to speak on the second brief point? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522202821	But the calculations are not based on a slim basis. They are based on a solid empirical basis. It is not the Ministry of Finance that has done this, but it is based on analyses and studies that are being carried out at Danish universities, and medium-term estimates are used. It is therefore a huge, huge democratic problem, I think that when one has made empirical studies of how real people in the real world respond to changes, and Enhedslisten's policy does not have the effect that Enhedslisten wants it to have in the real world, it does not fit with Enhedslisten's idea of how real people in the real world react. But the problem of the problem of what is going on and the suspicion of the central administration and its motives is such a conspiratorial problem, one must almost understand that I think it is a huge, huge democratic problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522202929	Thank you. In fact, there are quite a lot of people in the Chamber this evening who do not have their speaking time. I don't know if it's because we're all tired or what. But now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522202938	It's because we like to discuss. But that's not true. For example: The assumption rests that reductions in top tax should have a positive effect, so that people should work more, after all, in one Danish study which examines the context. If we look at a Danish survey in relation to working time, we can see that there are all sorts of studies about the relationship between the hourly effect, that is, that people work several hours, and the income, but it is a proxy variable for working time. And there are studies that come up with results that both say that reductions in top tax can be almost self-financing and that they are not at all self-financing. It is just the whole uncertainty which is so great and so fundamental and which is deeply problematic and which, if we are just talking about tax reductions, means that you cannot build your policy on it and spend the money, the room for manoeuvre that, for example, exists. had to come out of a reduction in the top tax, to finance welfare. Because the money may not turn out to be there because the effects that are claimed to be there and that are in the calculator are simply not there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203102	Thank you for that, President. After all, the starting point for today's debate is openness and, as the Minister of Finance also said, it is difficult to oppose it, and I am certainly also in favour of openness, and when I first heard about this debate and the proposal that the SF had put forward, I was so intuitively very positive about it. But then you can also get a little smarter, because I realized what the consequence will really be, i.e. that the Ministry of Finance will have to answer how to calculate, which will contain lots of variables, model files, projections on many different dimensions, hundreds of balancing items, excelark with several million cells. It's the truth that that's what's going on. It will not make anyone wiser and it will not contribute anything positive to any debate. I think it is a good thing that we have a debate and that we are also critical, and I think there have also been examples of some of the family type calculations that have been made, where one might ask: how many teams have they had in the real world? Of course, that criticism must be taken into account, even if family-type calculations are based on a rather funny basis, because the public debate is muddled. So you have to be good at all that in the Ministry of Finance, and that is where I think the debate is fine. I could say, if I were in my a little anarchist corner, that I would think it was fine that the Ministry of Finance should do everything I have just mentioned. Because then, in the event of my being in opposition, I could overdo a future government with questions that would take hours for the officials in the Ministry of Finance to figure out, and if they were also to make it educational with all these files they had to present so that I could understand it, it would really take a long time, and then it could be that there was not so much time for policy development, and perhaps I could be happy about that. But if it would contribute something positive, I am not very sure. Then it is also the case that the Ministry of Finance regularly puts notes on their website, describing methods and models and how they arrive at different results. Actually, there are a lot of notes. I have a list of them, and if I'm to be honest, but of course I can be wrong, I actually doubt how many members of parliament sit and trawl through those notes that are published over at the Ministry of Finance. I may be wrong, but I doubt it a little bit. So my conclusion is that the headline is really, really nice. There is also some criticism which I think is justified and which has also come from others than from the SF I have mentioned it in relation to family type calculations etc. I simply do not believe that. A professional discussion of the way in which economists are calculated is ongoing on the basis of new studies and new analyses. It is also my view that there are sometimes a little bit of conservatives over in the Ministry of Finance, and I can sometimes be a little sad about that politically, but that is the way it is. But I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203501	But someone has wanted a brief comment on that. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203504	After all, this is not a criticism of the Ministry of Finance or the Treasury's economists. It is actually a criticism that we, as Parliament, have not demanded that we be able to look at the government in the cards, and there is nothing disguised about that; it is the natural division of labour between Parliament and government. I think it's a little funny, that is, the thing about saying that I'm in favour of openness, but I'm in favour of freedom of speech, but I'm in favour of it, and that it's going to be very difficult. I mean, these are numbers that you already have, because they have been used for the game that they have to be presented up against. And I don't know if sir... Joachim B. Olsen has misunderstood the proposal or read it a little quickly, because this is not about a lot of questions we have to ask. This is about the fact that when you make a big proposal or a financial bill or some of the other things we have mentioned, you put the calculations on the formulas and the figures on a website or wherever it might be. After all, this isn't about members of parliament asking follow-up questions. We can do that in a completely different way. So I can't quite understand any of the criticism Mr. Joachim B. Olsen came with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203628	I am just wondering why it would be particularly sensible for a lot of time to be spent on it. Well, I'm not assuming that what Lisbeth Bech Poulsen wants is just such a data file, an excelark with a lot of numbers made in a lot of dimensions, compared to what kind of population there are, and one thing and the other, which you won't understand at all because it's not our job to understand that either. We're not the ones working on it. But that would be the consequence, even when it was a financial law or any other proposal. That is what is behind it and, moreover, is constantly being changed because it is often changed in a wiser way. So I simply see nothing but that this will mean that a lot of people over there in the Ministry of Finance would spend a lot of time on something that we will not be able to spend much at the end of the day. I can hear it sounds good, but the consequence in the real world I don't think will be what you imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203740	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203742	In other words, I will not take it as condescendingly as it actually sounds when the rapporteur is standing up there. I imagine that when the power of government changes at some point and a new government has put forward something and said about a proposal, it is almost self-financing in relation to retreats, behaviour etc., and that is a policy which Mr. Joachim B. Olsen may disagree very much, so he would like to know exactly what has been used and why the behavior should remain so much, or what counts as backflow, or what criteria have been used. That's why the middle bills get interesting. And this is about being able to have an open discussion about some of the most important things in Danish politics, namely how we finance things. That's where we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203849	Well, I have and I got good answers to those questions. I also asked questions about political proposals that I did not agree with, and sometimes I also received answers that I was sorry about. But what is important to me is that new methods are not used when the power of government changes, and then I am quite confident that there is a professional discussion going on about the way in which it is calculated. I think it is a great pity that we are seeing these tendencies towards politicising what is going on in the Ministry of Finance and making it suspicious. I do not think that contributes anything good, first of all because, in my opinion, it is wrong and irresponsible. But I did not have any complaints under the previous government in relation to the answers I received. I think I got full answers, and if I had detailed questions, I asked them, like anyone else can do it, and got good answers that made me smarter. So I really don't have anything to put off the way it's going on right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522203958	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Alternative, Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522204009	Thank you. The purpose of this motion for a resolution by the SF is to require the government to present the economic calculations underlying legislative proposals, dossiers, government proposals and plans, as well as political agreements and conciliation, in a way that ensures transparency, except in cases where specific, concrete reasons such as the security of the empire, the financial interests of the state and the like speak against such publication. There should be no doubt that, in the alternative, we support such openness. I agree with the authors that this makes it possible for the public, professionals and so on. assessing the assumptions for the calculations. I think this is really important, and it was also said by a former rapporteur that we are not exalting calculations and economists to come up with objective truth, but that it is, of course, calculations that are the basis of the political decisions that are being taken. I do not read that out of SF's proposal either, but I think it is important to repeat it very, very many times, because it seems that we all often use statements as if it were the objective truth in terms of how calculations are made. After all, it is all a question of a political decision how to use them. That is precisely why I and the alternative think it is important for there to be full openness and publicity about the calculations. I think that the argument that has been put forward, among other things, is one of those. The Minister for Finance, the fact that we are drowning people in calculations and partial calculations and things like that, is a rather unfortunate way of rejecting it, because that is not how I read the motion for a resolution. I read the motion for a resolution in such a way that, precisely when a legislative proposal is tabled, it is the prerequisite and the basis of what is then to be open about. But in order to counter the fact that there may be discussions about whether it is not too much bureaucracy and so on, I think it would be a very good idea for us to sit together in committee and make a report on what we could actually propose. In any case, we would really like to be involved in this. But no matter what, we support the proposal. I would also like to make a few comments on the calculation models as such. We spend a lot of time on them at the moment, among others. because Enhedslisten has been really, really good at making a very fine and great report. I think it is interesting to read Nina Smith in Information today. In fact, here she says that when you only calculate the effects of one side, if you may say so, of the proposals • e.g. What tax relief means, but not the effects of investing in public welfare, one should perhaps in reality stop operating at all with dynamic effects until we have a research that means that we can do so in all relevant areas. I think we should continue our work in committee on bringing forward and getting some money off so that we can research what effects we would like to see visible. For the alternative, it is the three bottom lines that are important. So it is not only the economic bottom line, but also the social bottom line and the environmental bottom line that we would like to focus on. Then I cannot help noticing to the Minister for Finance, whom I asked, whether we should not soon begin to calculate the environmental impact of the legislative proposals that are being put forward, that at least in the latest financial legislative proposal made by the Ministry of Finance, environmental impact assessments have not been made. I hope, of course, that we will see that in the next draft budget that comes, in other words that we will ensure that there are impact assessments both on the environment and on the social side of the draft budget put forward by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522204432	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522204447	I would like to thank the SF for the motion for a resolution. I think that is a correct aim, and I think that something is actually coming out of this resolution here, because the Minister for Finance has suggested that we should try to talk about how we can ensure more openness. So it has not been in vain and I think it is good to work for more openness. It is important that those in power can be looked at in the cards, that there is transparency and that you can see through that what you are being told about the consequences of political decisions is as true as it is now possible to calculate it. It is therefore in every way a very sympathetic proposal, and we also support Conservatives for the widest possible openness. If we cannot then vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, it is because of the things that other rapporteurs have already mentioned, namely that the volume of data will be enormously extensive. It may be millions of data that will sometimes have to be disclosed. Perhaps there will even be some data that will reveal personal information about citizens that we do not want to produce, which sometimes forms the basis for some of the calculations and which cannot so it is not possible to do as the resolution suggests, namely that all the underlying data and calculations should be presented openly. However, it may be possible to ensure that there is a tradition of putting forward some key elements when presenting a proposal. And we look forward to taking part in the debate and seeing how far we can go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522204627	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522204650	Thank you. First of all, thank you for today's debate. I thought the long stretch was good. What matters is how we move forward. It is crucial what is actually meant when, for example, The finance minister is standing up here saying he wants to get the good stuff out without having to drown in the data. I just think it's a very, very small onion in this apple-onion-apple speech... maybe it's something North Jutland, I don't know that there's been a few things mixed up in the debate here and now and in the big discussion that we also have about dynamic effects and criticism of the way the Treasury calculates, etc. This proposal is all about making the calculations open so that they can be discussed so that economists in society can discuss them and then the economists, for example. has been employed in our parties, also can see how the Ministry of Finance counts • if you like even yourself, for example. will put forward a financial bill. So this is not about everything else, which is also important discussions. Nor is it about, as I did not hear Joachim B. Olsen say, that then MEPs should drown the Ministry of Finance in questions and various questions etc. We can always do that in the context of our day-to-day work... ask committee questions, Article 20 questions, etc. etc. This is about, as we have also written, the fact that when a major proposal has been put forward a tax reform, an agreement, a financial bill or whatever it may be, you put up the runs and the final spreadsheets and the formulas you have used. It is true that it will not be everyone in the kingdom who can sit and verify it. That's not supposed to happen either. But we're supposed to be able to take some of these discussions a little more openly. Let me be very clear: it is good that we have common accounting principles. We need to have common institutions and common ideas, especially in a world as fragmented as the one we have right now. But that does not mean that there is something that must be beyond criticism. And as with all sciences, and especially economics, it is only better to come to light and to have some who can bring in kicks or qualified criticism. It only gets better. Models and calculations are by their very nature simplified images of the world around us. It is best man's best offer in the ideal version at least, and that is why we want to be able to have the openness to say: Well, why is the elasticity that and that? Why have these criteria been applied in this way? Why does it give so much in terms of behavior and backflow etc. etc.? In the concrete example that I and others have given, whether the HK and the director were so relatively easy to find that it at least took our economist 20 minutes to see that there was something quite wrong there. But that makes us worried about whether there is something more subtle and harder to discover if you do not know the middle bills. As I said, of course, we would like to have our proposal, as I have also said to several of the rapporteurs, come true. I will, of course, go back to the Committee on Finance and see if there is support for that. We think it is important that the calculations come forward in full transparency and not just the end result. But I would like to sign up to the Minister for Finance in particular for some progress, I think. There will be some clear improvements in being able to say very clearly what is at the root of it and that family type, for example. But I hope that we can discuss this in committee and with the Finance Minister there are also some things that may seem a little technical or indifferent in many other places. But if you make a round of 1 billion... DKK, then it will be over 10 years if you make a political move to cover it all from 5-15 billion. kr. We often have very large figures to do in particular in the Finance Act, and if we do not see why it is rounded to one side or the other, it can therefore give some fairly large amounts in one direction or another. The last thing I want to say is that it is the government that has the power. Hopefully so has the Folketing. It is certainly our job to control power, but sometimes it may feel as if we have very few resources in the Folketing and that the government has a lot of resources. That is why it is not a sign of disease that we want to take on the task for which we are set in the world. Besides making politics, it's also controlling the government. It is a cornerstone of a democracy. Especially at a time when economic policy and the economy are filling as much as it does, and you are often denied or told that it and the political direction are just coddets, because it costs so much, instead of focusing on the content. Therefore, there is even more reason to be able to have the open debate on why we come to one thing and the other. I hope that the discussion, which I also think SF has been part of, i.e. the broad discussion on the role of the Ministry of Finance, on how we calculate, on dynamic effects, could actually give the slightly opposite result of what is happening right now. We do nothing but talk about economics and economic models. We should be discussing more, as the rapporteur of the Left too, Mr President. Jacob Jensen was talking about. That's right. We have to discuss politics and then we have to find the money; then we have to say how it can be linked. After all, this is not a discussion that we, the SF, do not want to finance things. I hope that the Minister for Finance also remembered that we had a fully funded financial bill last autumn, we do. But the political debate and the ideological differences and what is really funny about being in politics too, that is to say what is not just technocratic, we must also remember to stick to it. So I hope that with this debate that we have, also in relation to the great work that Enhedslisten has done, so that all the focus on the economy can actually lead us to say: first of all, we need to discuss politics and not reduce it to the economy alone. But thank you for all those, so I heard, rather nice words and support for us to move on. And then we in the Committee on Finance have to look at whether we can find something that everyone can see themselves in. I hope so. This requires a somewhat ambitious text, I think, but I hear that most people are also interested in it. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522205532	Thank you, too, to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments right now. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180522205553	Before I end the day, I shall inform you here on Tuesday, 22 May 2018, that the Prime Minister has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Folketing a written statement on the Kingdom Community 2018. R 15). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday 25 May 2018. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. I can inform you that the Danish Parliament will have its next meeting tomorrow, Wednesday 23 May 2018, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
