ParlaMint-DK_20180525100021	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525100027	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 29 May 2018. There is a explanatory statement, and it takes the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, Left, off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525100125	Thank you, Madam President. As rapporteur for the questioners, allow me to open this debate that we are going to have today. It is, of course, about the very good tradition we have here in the Folketing to debate the challenges and opportunities that we have in our kingdom community. I look forward to a good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525100146	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525100155	Today we are discussing the Commonwealth and, as the rapporteur of the Left has just said, this is a good, long and firm tradition. That is why I have been looking forward to today's debate. We usually have some good debates that are open, honest and constructive. The Kingdom community is close to my heart, and it has a high priority for the government. We will strengthen and modernise cooperation for the benefit of the people of the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark. Fortunately, there is broad support for this here in the Folketing. The Kingdom is an area that brings us together. I'm proud of our community. It is three different countries that share history, friendships and family ties and have room for both diversity and community. It's really quite unique. Next month, I'm meeting with the lagman and the president of the Naala Suisut for the annual Kingdom meeting. This time it happened in the Faroe Islands. Personally, I look forward to a revisit with the islands of magnificent and homely at once and I also look forward to discussing the issues of which we are all concerned. The key word in the Kingdom community is cooperation in mutual respect and trust. This year's report on the Kingdom Community, which has been sent to the Folketing prior to the discussions here today, shows something about the extent of cooperation in a wide range of areas. I know that some people in the Faroe Islands and Greenland want independence here and now or in the long term. I fully respect the vision of being independent. I understand that every people has the urge to be themselves, but what does that really mean? Denmark is a sovereign state, but we are deeply dependent on the outside world. By associating with others in binding international contexts, we gain participation and the opportunity to make our views known. Our prosperity depends on cooperation with others, our security rests on alliances, our prosperity is conditional on trade with the world, and I am convinced that Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands are much stronger together than individually. Greenland and Denmark hosted the 10th anniversary of the Ilulissat Declaration together with representatives of the eight Arctic states and the indigenous peoples' organisations in the Arctic at the beginning of this week. With the Ilulissat Declaration of May 2008, the five Arctic coastal states committed themselves to maintaining the Arctic as a low-voltage area, an area where possible conflicts are resolved through peaceful negotiations under international law and where cooperation is being made on sustainable economic development, environmental protection and research. It is just one example that we can do something together, that we stand together stronger than each other. I think that is too little when the Kingdom Community is under discussion. I would like to see a spacious community in which we take up the discussions and proceed pragmatically. This is the case in the fisheries sector, where the Faroe Islands and Greenland can have cross-border interests. At the beginning of this year, a joint work has started between the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark on both practical and legal questions about the DFG system or the authorisation system about the Faroe Islands' and Greenland's ability to conclude international agreements on behalf of the Kingdom. This also applies to foreign and security policy. We live in a world where the balance of power shifts, where geopolitics becomes more important. This is something that the whole Western world is concerned with, and it is a problem that we are working with in the European Union, and it is a reality that affects all parts of the Kingdom community. We need to balance, to a greater extent than in the past, various considerations in the foreign and security policy of the empire. Everyone in the kingdom community, in the Faroe Islands, in Greenland and in Denmark, makes a living trading with the outside world. We are small open economies in need of foreign investment. We cannot build walls against the world, but at the same time we must not be naive. We also need to deal with potential risks of foreign investment, for example. in the case of investments in critical sectors. This is going to make new demands on cooperation in the Kingdom Community, where we have to deal with specific security aspects of certain foreign activities, and our cooperation must be based on insight and on involvement. This is a subject that we will have to discuss in greater detail in the Kingdom Community in the coming period. This is something I have mentioned to the lagman and the chairman of the Naala Suisut. That is why the Faroe Islands and Greenland are also involved in the work now under way on our security interests in major investments. The work will, of course, be based on the existing division of competences within the realm and will be carried out with full respect for Greenland's and Faroe Islands' autonomy arrangements. Of course we need to find a balance. Look at Greenland, Greenland needs to develop its business community. Greenland needs new revenue, everyone agrees on that. Greenland itself sees investment in infrastructure, at new airports as an important prerequisite for business development and new jobs. Good transport opportunities to and from Greenland and Greenland are part of the answer to business development. That is what Greenland thinks, I think, and I fully recognise it. However, investments in airport projects of the order of magnitude being worked on, in round figures, about 20 per cent. of Greenland's gross domestic product raises some questions, of course. Depending on the funding, it may, depending on the choice of external partners, have foreign policy perspectives that the government will discuss with the Naala Suisut. Here I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate what I said earlier: the government is also happy to engage in dialogue on business promotion, on investment, on infrastructure; closer strategic cooperation on the challenges that Greenland faces. I see Denmark as a player for Greenland, also when it comes to business development. But of course it requires that there is also an interest in cooperation on the part of Greenland, and that is something I expect to discuss with the now re-elected President of the Naala Suisut when we meet shortly. The growth of recent years in Greenland has led to lower unemployment. That's a good thing. However, the fundamental challenges in terms of growth, employment and the sustainability of public finances remain unresolved. In the Faroe Islands there has been high economic growth for a number of years. Growth is expected to decline this year, but employment is historically high, unemployment is low, labour shortages are budgeted with a good surplus on public finances this year, a larger amount of which is transferred to an economic fund. A pension reform and fisheries reform have been adopted, both of which will contribute significantly to improving fiscal sustainability. The government is continuously following the economic development in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. As I said, I am constantly discussing these issues with both the Layerman and the Chairman of the Naala Suisut. I would just like to stress the point that Denmark is, in such a way, ready, also for a closer and more binding dialogue on how to ensure a different infrastructure development in Greenland than the one we have had to date. I see it myself as raising my hand here. And if those discussions are to start, some have to catch it on the other side of the table. Both the Faroe Islands and Greenland work with their own constitutions. It is, of course, an expression of national pride, of the desire to put words on its own identity. I understand that, I recognize that, I can understand that. The Constitution sets a clear framework, as I have mentioned before, and I know that there is attention on that. The Faroe Islands and Greenland are different places in the process. In the autumn of last year, the Faroe Islands' Home Rule Government put forward a proposal for a Faroese constitution for Lagtinget. The matter is dealt with in a separate committee. As I understand it, the Laying has not been able to complete its reading in this session and the proposal will therefore have to be retabled, it must be understood, in the coming session. This is the status of the Faroe Islands. During the January debate on the independence process in Greenland, I gave a more comprehensive account of Greenland's constitutional work. All in all, I should like to refer to what I said on that occasion. What the new Naala Suisut agrees with is that the work on a constitution presupposes that parties should have the opportunity to freely appoint members of the Constitutional Commission. I look forward to getting an briefing on the work on the constitutions of both the Layerman and the President of the Naala Suisut when we meet at the Kingdom meeting in the Faroe Islands in June. The defence has different, but important roles in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. In addition to such more classic tasks as sovereignty enforcement, defence also contributes to a number of other tasks, such as: Fisheries inspection, support for the police. And in Greenland, the defence also carries out search and rescue services, marine surveying and tasks in the marine environment area. The agreement of December 2016 between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left to strengthen the Ministry of Defence's task solution in the Arctic is now reflected in the defence agreement for the coming six-year period. It is also within the framework of the defence agreement that we have set aside a framework of 180 million. kr. over the next 6 years to clean up after former American military presence in Greenland. In January, the Minister for the Environment and Food and the President of the Naala Suisut signed an agreement on the concrete work now under way and there is close cooperation to prioritize work and implement the funds most appropriately. I'm glad. A well-functioning Kingdom Community requires that Danish authorities manage their responsibilities in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland with a standard corresponding to the standard in Denmark, taking into account the special conditions in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. At the same time, the legislation on Danish responsibilities must be updated on a regular basis. The government will see if more can be done about that. The area of justice covers a wide range of key issues for a community governed by the rule of law. This is an important area in which I know that North Atlantic mandates are also of great interest. In the Finance Act, the government has set aside a pool of 10 million. kr. annual in the period 2018-2021 for a special effort aimed at the Greenlandic judiciary. We will cooperate with the new Naala Suisut on the coinage. Negotiations on the EU's next multiannual financial framework are now so slow after the Commission has presented its proposal. The government is very aware of the importance of the Greenland Instrument, not least the importance of the instrument for the Greenlandic education sector. We work closely with Naala Suisut to maintain the allocation to Greenland in the EU budget. Greenland has an interest in this and the European Union has an interest in it. I myself recently discussed the matter at the informal European Council in Sofia with President Juncker of the European Commission, and the Minister for Finance has also raised the matter with Commissioner Günther Oettinger. And I must not hide the fact that it will be a challenge to maintain the allocation at the same level as in the current budget period. This is mainly due to Brexit, which leaves a huge financial gap. But I would like to make it clear that I and the government will do everything we can. The Kingdom community has a great place in my heart. We have a strong tradition of working together and finding solutions together. The Kingdom is a unique construction: self-determination and cooperation, strong ties that lift our countries, with room for diversity. So the government will do its part to ensure that this will continue to be the case in the future. And with the hope expressed, I look forward to a good debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525101641	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525101658	Thank you, President, and also thank the Prime Minister for a very good and full statement. As I said, I am incredibly pleased that we are maintaining the tradition of an annual debate on the Kingdom Community. It always reminds me of the question: What is the Kingdom community really about? For me, the Commonwealth is about unity, about common history, about helping each other in difficult times and in good times, about promoting each other's individual and common interests, about a unique community across the Atlantic for the benefit of Greenland, for the benefit of the Faroe Islands and for the benefit of Denmark. Sir. A year or two ago Jakob Ellemann-Jensen compared the kingdom community to a group of siblings who were bound together through unique ties, but who were also different. In fact, I would like to go a little further and say that I see the Kingdom community a little like a marriage. It may sound a bit funny when there are three parties, because it seems a little out of the question to be three in a marriage, but it is, in my view, a little like a marriage. You are different, but also together, and through the unity we create a common identity, one kingdom community, where Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark are linked together in a unique, historical and strong community. That is why I am also pleased and proud that this year's text has succeeded in bringing together all four members of parliament from Greenland and the Faroe Islands in a massive, broad majority, which only omits the Danish People's Party, who choose to wear their own text. This has not been an easy negotiation. Many parties had their priorities and we negotiated until the eleventh hour. In fact, I would say that we negotiated until a few minutes ago when Mr. Magni Arge also decided to be in the text with a tiny adjustment, and it shows a little how this kingdom is a bit like a marriage. You give and take until the last minute. It may be that we do not always see things the same, but we come together about the common, about the good, about the cohesion. That is why I am also pleased and proud even in the relatively short time when I have been Greenland's rapporteur, to have been involved, among others. trade promotion for sealskins in Brussels, where, as a joint Danish-Greenland delegation, we met EU representatives to find a solution so that Greenlandic sealskins can continue to be traded in Europe despite the EU's general ban. It is also a matter which I know the Danish Members of the European Parliament are constantly following and promoting, regardless of which party they are from, and despite the fact that Greenland is not part of the European Union. We do this because in the Kingdom community we are united in helping each other. I hope that the close industrial relationship between Denmark and Greenland will also be strengthened in the future when the infrastructure in Greenland is to be strengthened. Indeed, I see enormous potential for developing especially the capacity of Greenland airports, so that international flights can be received much more easily directly to the destinations sought by tourists and business people. It could, for example, be done. be Ilulissat or Nuuk and therefore without having to via Kangerlussuaq. One only needs to take a brief look at how much success Iceland has had in offering shorter or longer stays that have attracted a large number of visitors from both Europe and the United States. In fact, I remember when I lived in Boston a few years ago, I was surprised how many Americans went on a stroll just for a weekend to Reykjavik. Today Iceland, as I have read it, receives up to 2 million tourists every year as against just about 100,000 in Greenland, and that is, in spite of Greenland having a much more beautiful nature and much larger areas. I am not saying that to insult Iceland, but just to underline the enormous potential that Greenland has. But such a development must also be done with care. Here I hope that we will once again reach out to each other within the Kingdom community and build on the experience we already have. Here I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on the thoughts and words expressed by the Prime Minister both in terms of developing Greenland's business, which is a prerequisite for new jobs and a prerequisite for a stronger economy, but also in relation to the choice of partners, especially when it comes to contracts with external partners from, for example. abroad. In this connection, I look forward to following the meeting of the Prime Minister in the Faroe Islands. Another area that links us across the Kingdom community is the Danish language. Very many young, skilled Greenlanders and Faroes continue after high school to Denmark to take a higher education. A prerequisite for higher education is therefore the Danish language. I hope that Greenland will reconsider the recent announcement to downgrade the Danish language in favour of English. I think that is really, really a pity and something that risks undermining the opportunities for Greenlandic youth to do both in high school in Greenland, where the language of Danish, but also in a subsequent education in Denmark. The Danish language is also a prerequisite for the Greenlanders to do well if they, for example, do well. will be employed in the Danish defence, which has a very large and important presence in Greenland. We saw most recently how well the Danish defence worked with the Greenlandic authorities in connection with the terrible tsunami that hit West Greenland, which unfortunately led both to the loss of life and to the evacuation of a whole village. The effort from the Danish defence and the Danish defence ongoing effort with e.g. Seach and rescue operations make me hope that even more Greenlanders will consider serving with Danish colleagues, and here a good knowledge of the Danish language is of course also a great advantage. The same is true if, for example, we do. as Greenlander intends to move to Denmark to live or work for longer or shorter periods. In short, I sincerely hope that across Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark we will safeguard the Danish language. I would also like to congratulate the new government in Greenland and, above all, to Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who is also in both the Folketing and the Landsting. I am very pleased that both our Greenlandic MFs have such good experience and networking in the Landsting in Greenland. The cooperation between us MPs working with Greenland and the Landsting is an area that I hope we can strengthen. I believe that in future we should place more emphasis on meetings with members of the Landsting when the Danish Parliament visits Greenland. Of course it has a great and invaluable value to visit different regions of Greenland, different cities, different settlements and the scenic areas, but I will work to build a closer relationship with our colleagues in the Landsting. That is why I have also requested through the Greenland Committee that this year we make an extra trip to Greenland with the sole purpose of traveling to Nuuk to meet with members of the various parties in the Landsting. It could, for example, be done. be in connection with the opening of the Landstinget · but not necessarily · and here we could learn more about the new government in Greenland. A closer personal relationship between members of the Landstinget and the Danish Parliament, in other words, in addition to the close relations that already exist between our governments, I believe that we will strengthen our understanding of each other's political work and thus of the Kingdom Community. With these words, I will now read the text up to the proposal for adoption, which is on behalf of all parties in the Danish Parliament, including, as I said, the four North Atlantic mandates, with the exception of the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the Kingdom of 2018. Parliament calls for cooperation between the countries of the Kingdom community to be based on equality and mutual respect, and for it to be developed in recognition of both the countries' common fundamental values and their diversity. The Danish Parliament invites the government to follow developments in the Faroe Islands' and Greenland's economy and to offer cooperation on the development of business opportunities and on reforms. The Folketing respects the fact that the Faroe Islands and Greenland work with their own constitutions. The Danish Parliament urges the government to continue to give priority to updating legislation in Danish responsibilities in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. • V 64).
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102530	Thank you. Then it's mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102534	Does the rapporteur think that... is a static situation which will not change in the future, or does the rapporteur understand that it is a station on the road to independence for the two countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102556	Now I did not just hear the first part of the question, but as I understood it, it was about home government, whether it is a road to independence. As the Prime Minister has said, we respect the wishes that are in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, and we think the way it works with the Landsting etc. is a really, really fine structure, as it is right now. With regard to the possible path towards independence, I think it would be a pity to break the community of the Kingdom.That is my personal opinion... but of course we respect the fact that in parts of Greenland and the Faroe Islands there is a desire for independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102639	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102641	I would just like to make it clear that my question is actually whether the rapporteur accepts that we are in a dynamic situation and not necessarily in a static constitutional situation, that things are changing and whether we are open to it in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102703	My rapporteurship mainly concerns Greenland, so I will relate the question to it. There we have seen that one of the common denominators of the new government in Greenland is that during the election campaign we have advocated independence, and we respect that, of course. So, of course, all parliaments, including the Folketing, are in a state of development and we respect that development.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102729	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102732	Thank you. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on having a much more dynamic approach this year to the joint proposal for adoption. Last year we had some frustrations, we have to say, because we negotiated far into the debate. That's one thing. Another thing is that the content is also significantly improved, because respect for the three countries and their desire for independence are very, very clear. I think this is important because, in order to be equal, as the Prime Minister stressed, we must also respect the fact that there are three countries which are not independent countries but three countries and that the desire to have as independent a country as possible is great. It is also for Danes. I mean, we couldn't imagine giving up independence. On the contrary, we might sometimes want to have a little more autonomy in relation to the economy and things like that. I would just like to make a comment on that. So I would like to ask: with regard to the one who talks about the European Union and sealskin, is the rapporteur so satisfied with the European Union's efforts to promote the sale of sealskins, to which it has committed itself? An international campaign has even been undertaken to ensure that Greenlandic sealskin is sold on the international market.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102845	First of all, thank you for the rose. I am also incredibly pleased that we can bring together such a broad majority this year. And thank you also for the flexibility of all parties not only for the eleventh hour, but at the last minute to get a fine-tuning, so we all have four North Atlantic mandates. In relation to the EU's efforts: No, I am not satisfied. That is why I personally took part in the delegation that went down to Brussels, and that is also why I have ongoing communication with our Member of the European Parliament, Morten Løkkegaard. I do not think that the European Union has done enough, and that is where we should keep pushing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102925	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525102926	I am glad to hear that, because I think that we have been talking for perhaps ten years now about all the sealskins that lie there and are not being converted into concrete capital. That is a pity, especially since there are opportunities in it. That is why we must all try to push, both bilaterally with other countries, but especially with the European Union, and say: you must live up to it. What are we doing about the United States, which is also boycotting sealskins and which has not taken many initiatives to change their policy and which is, of course, an essential market for sealskins because there is a strong public?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103011	Honestly, I must be the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, a bit of a response to the United States. It's something I'd love to have a talk about. In relation to the European Union, we have seen a development in which we are working on certification and where Kopenhagen Fur and other companies and players are also aware of it. So I am glad that there is a development, but I believe that, in relation to the sale of sealskins in the European Union, although we are working towards a solution, it is just as much about perception. I think there are too many people who have the impression that you cannot, and therefore just do not trade with it. I heard now it may be that I remember wrongly that to some of the bags, for example. in the classic Scottish national costume they used sealskins so far, and they have gone away from that because they had got the impression that they should not. And that is as much the view that it is okay to use seal skins as we should work towards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103103	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103106	Thank you for that and thank you for a fine speech, which I broadly agreed with. The rapporteur said a little about the need to have knowledge of each other culturally and so on. in a community. What is the rapporteur's view of the fact that one can go through an entire elementary school course of 10 years in Denmark without there being a single mandatory page to read about the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103138	To be honest, I think it is really a pity, and that is something that I think we should do more to promote. Now we have recently heard from universities that the teaching of certain Scandinavian languages will be reduced, and I think that is really a pity. So, of course, we must respect the autonomy of universities, but if there is something that I believe we should safeguard and also like to spend more money on, even though it may cost more than teaching Spanish, English or other foreign languages, then it is the Nordic and Scandinavian languages. Because if we do not, we will undermine both the values of the Kingdom and the Danish values and the languages that are a complete cornerstone of our community and society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103223	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103225	Thank you. Well, of course, I very much agree with that. Could it be that the Left more clearly stated that, in our being in a community with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, they also expect the primary school to teach about the countries with which we are in a community, and that, although they cannot, of course, interfere in the curricula, they are expressing their clear desire here and that they have a certain obligation to know a little about the countries with which they are in such a close community?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103258	In fact, I think that precisely during this period, when we are hearing about the university decision, there is a very good basis for taking that very debate and looking at what we need to do more to promote both knowledge of Greenlandic and Faroese history, to the Kingdom Community as a whole and to the languages we are now speaking in the Kingdom Community. I think that will be a very, very good start, and I am quite sure that we will certainly be open to talking about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103327	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103330	As the Prime Minister himself says, the Kingdom Community is changing, and of course it also makes new demands on the Kingdom Community and on how to deal with the important issues you have with each other. Greenland speaks more and more with other countries, and Greenland has the right to conduct its own foreign policy negotiations with countries on already repatriated matters. Greenland also does so in connection with the expansion of our airports. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister mentions that there are therefore some foreign policy and security aspects that need to be taken seriously. What is meant by this, according to the rapporteur of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103417	I think the Prime Minister said it as clearly as it can be said, and I am sure that Mrs Aleqa Hammond knows better than I do the responsibilities between Greenland and Denmark, including that Denmark still carries out foreign policy, security policy, etc. So if you had to choose to include external partners from other countries, there would be some considerations to be considered in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103448	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103450	When Greenland built its first hydroelectric power plant, Greenland was also out to talk to other countries and also found investments through that road. Denmark did not blink with its eyes, but now it does because we are talking to China. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103509	As I remember, the hydroelectric power station, which I have visited, and which is very, very impressive, was from Norway. But we also see an activity in the Arctic these days in a number of countries which are not necessarily close to Europe and which may not share the values and intentions of the Arctic. I think we should bear that in mind when we look at what sort of players we want within the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103545	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103548	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for negotiating on behalf of all the parties. I think it is a very strong signal to say that we would like to try to reach agreement across the party differences that there are now. So thank you for your cooperation. Then I would also like to point out that there is a consultation on Monday, which is precisely about how we can ensure that there will be some more education in the Danish primary schools around Greenland, and it can be said that the subtle is also about the Faroe Islands, but with a specific focus on Greenland. The government's statement says that there is a need for a training boost in Greenland. We know that the Greenland Instrument is very important for Greenlandic society, and it is an agreement that guarantees Greenland 1.6 billion. kr. over a six-year period, so of course this is something that we hope the government will also make a huge effort, in cooperation with Naalaksuisut, of course, to ensure that it remains at the same level as it is today. So I would like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur thinks the government can do to help promote this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103659	Now I am not going to stand by and make the concrete moves, but I know that this is an area that the government takes very, very seriously. You can just look at, for example. the Greenlandic high schools, where about half of the students drop out after they have started in the first g, and many times it is also because of poor knowledge of the Danish language. If you are going to raise the whole of Greenlandic society, the Greenlandic economy, then I think education is a crucial cornerstone. So I look forward as much to the meetings and debates that must be held as the rapporteur does.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103737	Thank you very much. I have no doubt about the good intentions of the government in maintaining an appropriation for the Greenland Instrument, but what worries me is the level, because I am deeply concerned that this will be at a much lower level than what we have seen so far. So that is actually where I think there should be more effort, including on the part of the government, in order to ensure this. Then, in relation to these Chinese investments, it can be said that it has been discussed, among other things. Foreign policy Name, and what may well concern me, is in relation to the 32 areas Denmark is dealing with on behalf of Greenland, where we sometimes see that there are some grey areas where it is said that there may be some foreign and security policy considerations, but that it is not quite clear. What can we do to make it clearer? What is a Danish responsibility, and what is a Greenlandic responsibility when it comes to the kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103828	Thank you. In relation to education, I would say that the Prime Minister and the government already have a very, very large focus on that area. And in relation to the issue of China and any other actors in the Arctic and in Greenland, I would like to say that it is a discussion which, as I understand it, is taking place between our governments. Now there is also the Kingdom meeting here in the Faroe Islands in not a very long time, and an ongoing close cooperation is the best thing we can have, and Denmark as well as Greenland and the Faroe Islands want a strong kingdom community, but also a kingdom community that is safe in terms of security policy. The closer we work, the better it is for everyone, and that is among other things. For this reason too, I call for us fellow MEPs to work more closely with our colleagues in the Landsting, and we do so, for example. by making a journey here soon, where Greenland rapporteurs can be offered meetings with our colleagues in the Landsting so that we have close, ongoing, personal cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103931	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525103932	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we look with great concern at the fact that you have that dialogue with China, for example, about such large investments in Greenland. I find it regrettable that when you take some initiatives from the Danish side to talk about these problems, which the Prime Minister mentioned, you put out your fist and say: could we find a solution to this? That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: does the Left not think that it is deeply regrettable that we do not have this in-depth dialogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525104011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525104013	There are two sides to this case. On the one hand, there are so many Danish companies that work with Chinese companies, and there are Danish companies that invest in China, and there are Chinese companies that sell their products in Denmark. So we shouldn't look at China as someone you can't work with. On the contrary, we have a close, close business cooperation with China here in Denmark. But at the same time, you also have to be careful what you could open up to in Greenland. That is why this debate is a good one; that is why we have this debate. And that is why I am pleased and sure that this is one of the issues which will also be discussed at the Kingdom meeting in the Faroe Islands here very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525104056	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525104058	Thank you. There is no doubt that China has become a world player. They're everywhere. They have the means to buy in the various places. But they only do that where they can see an advantage in it. I think it is a long way from producing and trading small gadgets for all sorts of other jar glasses, or whatever it may be until you have to make such huge investments as airports in Greenland. That is my concern: it is said that it is actually just as fine that it is Chinese like anyone else, knowing that they have a completely different agenda. It would be something else if it were to be solved jointly in the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525104141	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525104143	As both the Prime Minister and myself have said, there are some foreign policy considerations that we must of course take and some security policy considerations. So it is not as black and white as either shopping with some gadgets, as the rapporteur says, or just opening up everything. So, it is a balancing act, a very, very good balancing act, and that is exactly what the Prime Minister finds.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525104207	Thank you. Then no one else wants to say anything. This is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525104223	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a detailed account of the Kingdom Community. After all, we now have a series of debates on the Arctic and the Commonwealth issues here in the Danish Parliament, and I think that these debates are getting better and better and have both relevant and significant content. The Faroe Islands are still in a good development. There is a surplus in public finances. But there is also an underlying structural challenge with a population that will grow older and older in the coming years. Where there are now five working age for each pensioner, when we reach 25 years later, there will be only two working age per year. pensioner. This is, of course, a challenge that the Faroese society must face. There is a great deal of progress in the Faroe Islands. A new infrastructure is being invested. The tunnels between Østerø and Strømø and Sandø will expand the attractive area around Thorshavn and thus extend the metropolitan area to include parts of Østerø and Sandø. This will undoubtedly be a major asset for the Faroe Islands. For all three countries in the Commonwealth it is true that fisheries reforms have either intervened or will take action against the so-called quota kings in the fisheries sector. It has proved to be a major challenge for both Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland that fishing was gathering in too few hands. The Faroe Islands have now made a fisheries reform and have at the same time agreed that Faroese ownership of all fishing rights should be present and that foreign ownership should be phased out within the next few years. The Faroe Islands are working to repatriate several areas which they can, of course, under the Act of Self-Government. The statement by the Prime Minister mentions the aviation area, sea surveying, the map and spatial data area, the alien area, border control and the national medical office. We will probably see some measures in the coming year that will lead to this happening. Then Greenland. First of all, congratulations to Greenland with the new government. Kim Kielsen is still the chairman of the national government, and as a social democrat I can only express satisfaction with that. The statement tells us that the economy is bad in Greenland. We know that the economy is not good, but we should also recognise that Greenland's GDP in 2016 had growth of over 7%. I know that a lone swallow does not do one summer and that the statement tells us that Greenland's Economic Council predicts a low growth in the future. We can say that this sounds disturbing. One can also say that we do not know for sure, because the figures for 2017 have not yet been published, and the Greenland Economic Council guessed quite wrong about 2016, when the council guessed a 2% increase, while reality showed 7%. If I may say so, it is actually a fairly large margin of error. Unemployment figures do not indicate declining growth; on the contrary, employment is still rising sharply. There is a shortage of skilled labour in the construction work in Greenland for example. the construction of airports. And for micro-economy like Greenland, there will almost always be too little skilled labour for large construction projects. That is why labour will have to be imported for projects, as in Denmark, for example. builds metro or large bridges. The Danish Government warns against making public investment when there is a shortage of labour, but is it not the case that the bourgeois people never think that the time is right for public investment? They say: In the boom we lack labour, in the recession we lack money. The important thing for Greenland is to get qualified workers trained and to get unskilled people trained to be able to challenge some of the many vacancies so that they can get out of unemployment. The major topic of discussion is the development of airports in Ilulissat, Nuuk and Qaqortoq, where the financing model has not yet been definitively established. There is of course much attention in Denmark to whether the pants can hold, or whether they crack. Because with an investment of almost astronomical heights for a society of 55,000 inhabitants, it is imperative that there is much more income for Greenlandic society, that there are far more tourists and that these tourists stay longer, so that the profits are not only with the airline but, to a large extent, in the local areas. One of the areas the new Greenlandic government has in its government agreement is that the first foreign language in the future should be English instead of Danish. I am fully aware that this is something that is decided within Greenland; we have no influence on that by the Danish Parliament. Now you start a process where Greenland wants English to have a more prominent role as a foreign language. English also fills a lot in all the other Nordic countries, so from that perspective there is not much to say about it. The problems arise when the national government is to have the transition from primary school to reaching together with short, medium and long-term higher education. Today, all higher education courses are taught in Danish. Siumut and Naalakkersuisut want the artisan courses to be converted to Greenlandic, because people with short higher education typically fill out tasks in Greenland, and because it will be a way to give a training boost to those who finish primary school without having learned Danish enough. The upper secondary schools teach in Danish, while in medium-term education as a nurse, social worker, educator and teacher as well as long higher education are taught in Danish and English. Greenland today has a handful of university degrees, but many travel to Denmark for a certain university degree. And here they find that their English does not strike because most university educations in Denmark have English-language literature in a fairly large part of the curriculum. Greenlanders who fall from Danish university educations do so, among other things. because their English does not go to professional language level. It slows them down in the education when they have not understood enough to pass, and thereby they lose student support and drop out, after which they lose their residence and have to move home to Greenland without training, but with student debts. I am not going to judge anything here, and I understand that there is a problem in what I have just described. But yes, there is a concern about how the staff should be prepared to teach in a sufficiently good English language so that the young people who are graduating from the primary school in Greenland will be well dressed to be able to speak English at a level that can ensure a much higher level of education in Greenland, because that is what is needed to ensure growth and development in Greenland. There is also a concern for the many thousands of Greenlanders who speak only Danish or have Danish as their main language. Education is and remains the major challenge for Greenland, along with the solution of the major social problems that constantly challenge children, young people and families, business and the whole of Greenlandic society. I will conclude by mentioning that we look forward in the near future to discussing DF's proposal for a Danish investment fund aimed at Danish companies that will invest in Greenland. There are interesting perspectives in that idea, but we do not at present. is aware of the specific content. Both the Greenland Committee and the Faroes Committee are going to visit Greenland and the Faroe Islands this autumn, and it is a pleasure to be able to say that the agreement is very large. There is great interest in the Kingdom community, and we look forward to the travels. Social democracy fully supports the Kingdom community. We believe that this is a force for all three countries and we want the Kingdom community to exist. Dialogue, trust, respect and cooperation are key elements in preserving the Kingdom community. And with these words, I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105053	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105057	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. First of all, I would like to point out that the Arctic Investment Fund is something that has been discussed by Inatsisartut as far back as 2015, so it is not a proposal that has come from the Danish People's Party, but something that comes from a Greenlandic party, namely the Democrats, and there has been a broad majority in favour of it. Then I would also like to stress, with regard to this in English, that I share the rapporteur's concern about the challenges that can be faced after primary and post-secondary school, for example, if you do so. must have a higher education. I think it is important to create opportunities for those who speak Greenlandic, there is no doubt about that. One can say that in many ways we have an entire generation, which at some level is like a product of our own primary school, and it is important that we create some opportunities for them in Greenland. However, when we speak of English, I think it is important not to ignore the professional group that has been set up by Greenland and which, of course, expresses a number of concerns in this matter. What is interesting is how we can ensure that there will still be a link on, so you can get a higher education if it is that this change is going to happen in Greenlandic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105221	It is precisely in terms of the link between what is happening in Greenland and what it takes to be able to take courses outside Greenland that there is a real, really big challenge. I cannot stand here and come up with a solution, but of course we have noticed that we are now going to change it to English. When I mention the idea of a Danish investment fund, it is not because I do not know that it has been discussed before. All I know is that the Danish People's Party is now tabling a motion for a resolution which we will be debating in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105303	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105305	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I would like to ask a question in relation to the area of justice, because there is a broad consensus that there is a need to strengthen the justice area in Greenland and a bag of money has been set aside to secure the boost that is needed. We also know that there will be a new institution in Nuuk with a closed section, and we know that there are already major challenges in the existing institution in terms of maintaining and attracting good employees, asylum officers. I think that we need to look at this separately and that we should give priority to the efforts to ensure better pay conditions, better training opportunities, but also better training for asylum officers in the future institution. What does Social Democracy mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105355	Not long ago, we discussed Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's very good proposal on how to strengthen justice. There were many good suggestions, and perhaps there were too many. However, we have seen that money has been given here in recent months, so I think it is on the way. I understand that there is a concern about the Nuuk asylum, which must of course be able to do some other things than what has been done in the institutions. So I would like to say on our part that we are involved in discussing how we can strengthen the area of justice, but I also said earlier to the questioner that we need to take a few things at a time, that we cannot take all things at once.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105445	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105447	Thank you. I did not quite understand about the language, which was debated by many. I think we should say to the Greenlanders that they themselves should choose which languages they consider important at school. Greenlandic is of course extremely important, both because it is identity- and cultural-bearing language, which means their mother tongue, and that is the starting point, but if the Greenlanders look into the future, there would surely be just as much music and vision in saying that the second language was no longer the old colonial language Danish, but perhaps much better English, which is an international language that is very emerging. It could also be Spanish, but I think English will be more natural for the Greenlanders to choose. Therefore, it is probably about the Greenlanders themselves saying how they stand best with their young people in the future and their own development in the future, including the choice of language. I guess we're not going to say from old veneration from colonial times that it's Danish that's language no. Two?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105552	I hope that's what I said in my speech. I hope I said that this is not something we should decide here, because it is a decision that lies with the Greenlanders. And if they find that English would be the best language for their young people in the future, that is the way they should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105618	Thank you. Well, that was nice, because then we're at least on a parallel level on this question. I look forward to seeing what the Greenlanders choose. The second is about the big projects. I myself also think it seems quite, quite overwhelming, but it is not 50 000 people who have to do some construction projects and some airports; some companies have to finance it. At the moment, it is almost supernatural that a country of 50,000 people has an airline that is Greenland, which today even makes profits and provides the economy to society every year. It is also quite illogical that such a small society can cope with it, and that is why I think we should look at it a little more dynamicly. I look forward to discussing the risks that the Prime Minister thinks he might see, for example. Chinese funding comes in. I don't know if it's not seeing ghosts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105720	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105721	I did not really hear any question from the questioner. However, with regard to the construction projects, I would say that yes, it is huge investment and, of course, it is companies from outside, but the responsibility remains with the Greenland Government for how to choose to do it and who to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105751	Thank you, sir. Henrik Brodersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105754	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that, of course, we welcome the fact that the Socialist rapporteur can confirm that the Socialists think that our proposal to create an investment fund is good, an investment fund that will benefit Danish companies and also in this way get cooperation up and running in the kingdom community. That's all. Around the language, the rapporteur said that English can be used as well as Danish if you want to take a higher education. We do not have any problems with that. It will just do that if you opt out of the Danish, there will be these gaps with the fact that if you are going to Denmark and have a higher education and then do not have a level in English, so you can take the English line, it is unfortunately that we see the great apostasy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105851	But this is the huge challenge of moving from having a language as a first foreign language to having a second language as a first foreign language. This is gonna take years. There must also be people who can teach, and in every way there must be what to say about some change and a readiness for this to happen. However, we should not say here on the Danish side that it is not for Greenlanders to take education in English and that they should take it in Danish. After all, our own young people are also studying in English.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105930	Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525105932	Of course, the Greenlanders must be free to take one or the other line. But I just think it would be detrimental to the Kingdom community if the Danish language were taken out of it. It is precisely in the light of the fact that there are 15 000 Greenlanders who in fact can only speak Danish. After all, they would flaunt something in the wind, if I may say so, by standing alone and being associated with a nation in which their language is not recognized. That would be weird. So I just need the rapporteur to confirm that Danish still has a place in the Kingdom community in Greenland too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110013	I fully agree with the questioner, and I also mentioned that in my speech, that is to say that there is a great deal of responsibility with the Greenland Government and with the politicians in Greenland to include it in the picture too, that there are therefore several thousand Greenlanders who speak only Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110030	Thank you. Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110034	Thank you for your speech, I would like to say to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. No mention was made of the new President of the party, what to say, the indictment that one looks at the law of self-government and the development towards Greenland's independence as a relatively natural and dynamic thing. Can you explain that point of view a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110101	We don't use direct charges. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110105	In other words, there should be no doubt that we in the Socialist Group respect the fact that there will be work on independent constitutions both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. It is a work that is under way, and I believe that if there is to be independence, it must be a wish from each country • a wish from the Faroe Islands and a wish from Greenland. As I understand the Faroe Islands, there have been referendums which have not led to the wish to go further at this stage. If I look at Greenland, we now see a government agreement that has been said to work in this direction, but that is not one of the first things to do. So I think we should wait and see what happens from the Faroese side and from Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110201	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110205	Now it wasn't exactly the facts that I was looking for, so how you think things have evolved. It has actually been the case that the Faroe Islands have at some point chosen to go the way of independence. It was more of a matter of principle: whether the current system of self-government and the existing system of home government are regarded as a static end-station or whether it is considered to be a station on the road towards full autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110234	I do not consider it to be a static state in which you are, that is, a state that will never be able to change. I have never said that here either. I have said that I support the Kingdom community and that I would like it to stand, but that I respect it if that day should come that you want independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110259	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110303	Thank you. I would say that I am a little puzzled by the rapporteur's statement about the importance of the Danish language in Greenland, so it would be okay to downgrade it in favour of English. So, the high school in Greenland takes place in Danish. The step-by-step approach to continuing training, at least free of charge, is through Denmark, where further training is free of charge. The rapporteur imagines that a young Greenlander would have to go to take a free course, for example. English?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110340	But a young Greenlander can only take a free education in Denmark. But I have not stood here and downgraded the importance of Danish; I have said from here that it is a decision that lies in Greenland, and we can think what we want, but it is not we who can decide how that decision is made. In my speech, I have problematized what is going to happen and how long this will take before you can have enough English to be able to take courses in English. I haven't presented this as a simple and easy case. It will be a deeply problematical matter for Greenlandic society. But we can't say you can't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110440	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110442	Maybe that's true. But does the rapporteur not think that we have a responsibility as Danish MPs, as part of the Commonwealth, to call for the defence of the Danish language in Greenland. In other words, is the rapporteur not concerned that up to half of young Greenlanders starting in high school are falling away because Danish knowledge is so poor? Is it not a good thing, then, that we call for the Danish language to be protected so that more young Greenlanders can complete the high school and more young Greenlanders can move on to Denmark and take free further education and do well?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110520	So, I checked yesterday how many Danish teachers there are in the Greenlandic primary school. And out of the 1,100 primary school teachers, there are approx. 80, which is Danish. So it is not because Danish teachers in Greenland are in the majority that it must be said that they are far from being. And that is why today there is a great challenge with the fact that one cannot Danish enough. But we don't know how much English they can do. So young people acquire English in much more ways than they learn at school. They learn it over the Internet, they learn it on Youtube, they learn it all sorts of places there. And we have to be open to that. I would urge you to continue with Danish, but we cannot decide it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110608	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110610	It is a very trivial observation that we cannot determine what languages should be in the Greenlandic school system, but you can have opinions on it. Does the Social Democratic Party agree that it would be a huge self-target on the part of Greenland if they replaced Danish with English as a first foreign language, thereby reducing the opportunities for cooperation with their sovereign largest partner, Denmark, in virtually all areas, and that at the same time they cut off Greenlandic young people from receiving a free education in Denmark, as we are offering it today? Is there anywhere else that you can go and get a free education that we offer today from Danish, if you can only English? It is, of course, very good to know English, but the free courses from any English-language country that we offer from Danish are not included. Is that not a huge self-interest in the view of the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110710	That's not the expression I want to use. There are also many courses in Denmark which are being completed in English. So I don't think we can put it that way. We can easily state from here that we want to keep relations with Greenland, that we want to keep the Danish language, that we think it is important with the Danish language, but I would like to stress again that it is a decision that is being taken in Greenland. This is also responsible for the consequences it will have for perhaps more than one generation of young people, and the responsibility for making them ready to take courses that may contain both Danish and English. It's gonna be a huge task. But it is a discussion that they are now launching in Greenland, and let us now see where it ends. They're just starting it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110758	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110806	After all, we do not have the debate here in the Folketing, so that we just have to pour water out of our ears and say indifference. After all, we have a debate here because we need to talk about how to develop the Kingdom community as well as possible. But it also requires that you take the leaf out of your mouth and say what you mean. It is quite obvious that we are making a huge mistake on the part of Greenland. Does the Social Democrats not think that they have a duty to draw attention to this and to tell us what they think, rather than simply stating that it is a Greenlandic decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110833	I do not agree that I am pouring water out of my ears. That's how it is, sir. Rasmus Jarlov understands it, and it is up to the questioner to have that view. I just have to say that as things stand right now, not everything is successful with young people coming to Denmark and taking an education. There are many Greenlandic young people who come here to Denmark who fail with their education. We cannot be satisfied with that. Nor can Greenland be satisfied with that. Now we are trying to start a debate on whether or not to do something else, and we should not take that discussion away from the Greenlanders.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110912	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525110919	There are many Greenlandic young people who come to Denmark and are miserable with an education, says the rapporteur. I just have a little difficulty imagining that it would be better if they went to America or England, that it would leave more success. The Social Democrat rapporteur evidently thinks so. You can think what you want, the rapporteur says, and then it is up to the rest of us to find out what the Social Democrats really meant. I think that in a debate like this we have a right to know what the position of the Social Democratic Party is in relation to the English language that is being introduced in Greenland at the expense of the Danish language. Where are the Greenlanders going? I heard the rapporteur say that there are, after all, many courses in Denmark being carried out in English. No, so there are not that many Greenlanders can choose from. What exactly will the rapporteur do in the situation where English has replaced Danish? What opportunities does it really leave behind the Greenlanders?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111018	Well, there will still be an opportunity, as long as you are in the Kingdom Community, to come to Denmark and take your education. There will be for Greenlandic young people, and there will be no change as to whether it is Danish or English. I am not standing here saying that I think it is good that the Danish priority should be downgraded. I am just saying that we have to listen to the feeling that we have to do something other than what we are doing today because what we are doing today is not enough. There we should be open to that discussion if Greenland wants to involve us in it. We'll see if they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111105	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111108	Now it is said that there are opportunities for Greenlandic young people to come to Denmark and take an education. Does the rapporteur not think that these opportunities are a little limited if you cannot speak Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111121	I'm not saying you can't speak Danish either. I say that you choose to use English as your first foreign language. That doesn't mean you don't speak Danish anymore. There will be some Greenlanders who already find it difficult to learn Danish today, perhaps because the teaching powers you have in your village cannot be Danish. They are really, really disadvantaged unless they want to take an education in Greenland, which is Greenlandic. And perhaps that is where you should also try to put into Greenland and get more courses that can be taken by Greenlandic language. But we need to be open to the fact that English is, in other words, a main language in really, very many countries, or that it is at least the first foreign language in really, very many countries. And we have seen how things have gone in Iceland, where they have changed from having to speak Danish and learn Danish in schools to now that it is actually only English.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111218	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111222	When autonomy was introduced in 2009, it was adopted by all parties in this Chamber except the Danish People's Party. The law states that the official language in Greenland is Danish, and in the law itself, which today is our foundation for our joint cooperation between Denmark and Greenland • It is the self-government law • The Danish language is not mentioned with a single word, with a single sentence, but just that the Greenlandic language is the official language. What a country decides to have as its first foreign language is up to the country itself, just as it is up to Denmark itself, which language it would like to have as its first foreign language. You do not design your society according to what you can get for free, you design your society according to what you think is the most important thing for society, also based on the parties you vote in democratically and what values they want to work for, and people have the right to stand behind this. Most people have chosen that it will be important for Greenland to give priority to English rather than Danish. It is also part of the process of independence that you quietly move away from Denmark and open up to the international community, and I am very pleased to hear the Social Democrats' view that the language debate belongs to Greenland and that it is up to Greenland to decide which language you want to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111348	I'll take that as a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111352	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111356	The Danish language fills really, very much in Greenlandic society. It is as if now that we are about to speak more English, it means cutting off everything that is Danish from school. It's not. In no way has it been decided that Danish should not be taught in Greenland. Danish takes up really, really much. There are many Greenlanders who don't speak Greenlandic anymore, because Danish fills so much, also because in many ways the Danishness in the language fills so much in Greenland that you see it as a problem that you have to strengthen the Greenlandic language. So Danish is not just something that gets worse and worse in society, but you also have to look at the other side. I am very pleased to hear the Social Democrats have a very clear view that the language debate belongs in Greenlandic society, so that you can decide for yourself what you want with languages.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111449	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111451	I still take it away as a comment on the debate we have. I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111455	Thank you. Then there are no more comments or questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525111506	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister for the fine statement on the Kingdom Community. It describes the state of the Commonwealth and how the development is in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. It also describes the challenges facing the northernmost parts of the Kingdom Community, and there is no doubt that we have challenges in the Kingdom Community. Much has happened since the last statement on the Kingdom Community from the Prime Minister. In the last statement it was a great deal that Greenland and the Faroe Islands worked on a constitutional text, and great emphasis was placed in the text that the work should be carried out within the Danish Empire's constitution. That is also part of the debate. In the last statement, a referendum on a constitutional text in the Faroe Islands was planned. It was due to be held on 25 April this year. We are over that date, and I was just about to say that fortunately there has not been a referendum on a constitutional text in the Faroe Islands. Instead, it has been put into a committee that is working on it. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party think that is very good. For a constitutional text and a decision to be taken, one should probably chew well and thoroughly before proceeding further. The advantages and disadvantages must be weighed up and a broad consensus must be found. A constitution should not be adopted by a narrow majority, which may be a minority after the next elections. A constitution must be widely supported, including among the people. It is different in Greenland. There has not been any thought here of taking further steps towards a constitution, on the contrary. Since we discussed the last of the Kingdom Community, elections have been held in Greenland. I have followed the election campaign with great interest, and after very, very many years, when there has been little talk of anything but Greenlandic independence, I have noticed two things. I am delighted, after the election campaign and the election, that for the first time a party has been formed and elected that will work for the Kingdom Community. We in the Danish People's Party think this is very good, so that the debate on Greenland's future can become a little more nuanced. The second is that Greenland's challenge in the field of education was high on the agenda in the election campaign, and that education is at the top and takes up a great deal of the new coalition's work programme. We can then welcome these things, and we hope that the major problems will be addressed with a lack of training in Greenland, especially if you plan to stand on your own feet shortly, because then all these competences will be needed. The choice in Greenland has been made, and the old government has now been extended by a new secession party, which wants secession here and now, at any cost. Unfortunately, we have to note that we have not taken a step backwards and considered the situation or made sure that the many necessary reforms that are needed have been implemented. I can only mention that more than half of Greenland's income is in the form of block grants from Denmark of about 3.7 billion. kr. annual. In addition, there are those areas which have not been taken home, for example. the financial situation, the police, the judiciary, criminal justice, the marine environment, mapping, personal, family and inherited. Current expenditure in these areas is estimated at approx. kr. annual. So that's over 4 billion. DKK, which must be replaced crown by crown before Greenland can stand on its own feet. And then we can cause approx. 228 million kr. from the EU. In addition, we have repeatedly heard in the Folketing how already taken over areas also sail. There is no control over things in Greenland, and it is both economic and social problems that need to be addressed in Greenland, before a sensible secession can become a reality at all. Different is the case in the Faroe Islands. Here, the economy and real challenges are fairly well managed in the long term. There is a strong business community and you are getting more legs on economics, for example. in the form of increased tourism. The people are very well educated, and every time the Faroe Islands have taken up a matter, virtually none of them are concerned with it at all. That is good; things are under control. In this way, I am not at all concerned about whether the Faroe Islands can stand on their own feet. They have proved that they can, but I will mourn it if the Faroe Islands choose to leave the Kingdom community. This will be a huge loss for both the Faroe Islands and Denmark. In the Danish People's Party we are great supporters of the kingdom community, and we think we should maintain a community with each other. Our history and our community go back hundreds of years, and we have been through a great development together. Therefore, we want to continue to develop the Kingdom community together and that the community can continue for several hundred more years. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party also find it regrettable and worrying for our common future that the new local government has chosen to focus on having Danish teaching downgraded and instead put in English as a first foreign language. This will create an even greater gap between Denmark and Greenland, and it will also help to create a gap between the many native Greenlanders, approx. 15,000 in total, and their homeland. It will also help to create a gap between the many Greenlanders who actually speak only Danish and the others in the society in which they live. This is a clear and clear sign that one is cutting ties to Denmark completely and completely. Frankly, this is extremely worrying, because how can Greenland stand alone with an economy where half the income comes in the form of support from Denmark and the European Union? How can you stand on your own feet with your own economy and your own constitution in just 3 years if the idea behind these voices from Greenland is implemented? How do the national government and the Landsting in Greenland plan to solve the major social problems, to carry out the many necessary reforms and to provide the lack of qualified labour in just 3 years? I believe that the whole of the Greenlandic population is owed an answer as to why they want to tear the carpet under them. I would like to stress that we want the people of Greenland to do well and that it is a matter of concern for the well-being of the people that we are asking critical questions about the current plans for early secession from Denmark and a goodbye to the Kingdom Community. And as long as Denmark is also part of the Kingdom Community, we have a responsibility for many areas of responsibility in Greenland. So it is our duty to interfere and point out the dangerous things that are the risk of embarking on economic and social experiments that could put the whole welfare system in great danger in Greenland. In the Danish People's Party, we would rather that Greenland spending more time solving the major economic and social problems, such as: is described in the statement. The Danish People's Party would also like to see more time spent developing professions and education so that the population gets stronger in those areas. We would like a step to be taken side by side and to park the secession, while at least some of the major problems were solved and the economy stabilized. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party want the Kingdom community to exist and that we would rather be helpful in solving the problems and providing support for developing Greenland. In the Danish People's Party we hope and believe that we are stronger together and that we can continue to develop the Kingdom community rather than dismantle it. Then it was said that we are the only party that could not be involved in a joint vote. And that is quite right as well. But now that I read out our proposal for a text for adoption, the other parties will probably not recognize it, at least at the beginning. For there the texts are identical, and they are because they actually deal with things that we recognise. Against this background, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the Kingdom of 2018. Parliament calls for equality and mutual respect to be built upon by the Kingdom and for it to be developed in recognition of both the common fundamental values of the countries and their diversity. The Danish Parliament invites the government to stay informed about the Faroe Islands' and Greenland's economy and to offer cooperation on the development of business opportunities and on reforms. The Folketing urges Greenlandic selfgovernment not to downgrade Danish education in order to promote English as a foreign language. The Folketing urges Greenland's self-government to set aside other activities and to make every effort to solve Greenland's enormous economic, social and social problems. • V 65).
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112440	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112446	Thank you. I just have one question. In his speech, the rapporteur mentions the need for reforms in Greenland, so can the rapporteur say a little more about what reforms the rapporteur is thinking of?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112504	After all, these are some of the things that you can see with great clarity that are not under control. We need to rectify this and if it requires a targeted approach to say that there is a need to do it differently, for example. If we are to reform this area, we must do so. I do not think I need to elaborate on this point that it is both the field of education and the social area that is at the heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112528	Thank you. And I would just like to say that this proposal for adoption, like the first one, is, of course, part of the further debate. There are no more questions from Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112540	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that the Danish People's Party has not been in favour of home government and self-government and thus not of autonomy for Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but that is your business. What this is about is, in particular, the remark made by the rapporteur that Greenland is not in control of its economy. Is that not an equally fresh comment from a party that has a trial hanging over its head in the EU as far as the party box is concerned? Well, those are big words. I could even understand it if it was said that they had major problems with the economy in Greenland, because it was more real. Well, I guess I think they've got it; they know exactly how big the deficit is. I would like to hear: could the rapporteur not go a little more constructively into this and say where he thinks Denmark can contribute or that we in the Kingdom Community can help Greenland resolve some of the problems that are being pointed out?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112633	Thank you. I would urge you to deal with what we are discussing now, namely the relationship between Greenland. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112642	After all, some of the major problems are education and, in particular, the social area, where the Danish People's Party has more than once taken the initiative to debate ways of getting solutions for how Denmark could be allowed to contribute. And every time we hear from all the other parties in this Chamber that as long as there are areas that have been taken home, we should not interfere. But I think that we have an obligation to Greenlandic citizens, who are also part of the Commonwealth. So, when we can see that they are not well; when they do not get the education; when there are children who must go hungry to bed; when one in three children in one school class is sexually abused and one and the other, then we have an obligation from the Danish side to go in and say: we simply will not tolerate this, we want to solve these problems. Every time we just get the answer, we shouldn't interfere with that, but I certainly think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112754	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112756	Yes, I fully agree with the rapporteur, but that surely requires that we make some offers and proposals that can be used. The last time the Danish People's Party made a proposal, it was a proposal from Mr. Søren Espersen said that we should repeal the self-government law and that we should put Greenland under administration. Well, I mean, it's not a proposal that can be used for anything. There must of course be specific proposals and that we should go into the individual problems in concrete terms and say: here we can help those children who are both abused and do not get what they need to eat. Surely this cannot be done simply by repealing the self-government law and putting Greenland under administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112831	No, but then Christian Juhl may also remember that at the same time we suggested that it would be easy for the Danish side to get some social initiatives started, to send out some social educators and others who could take care of these things, who could advise, and who could just go around the settlements and see how things are. Because that is not being dealt with, and we think that is really worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112902	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112922	Thank you very much, as well as many thanks to the rapporteur. Something we can relate to here in the Folketing are the proposals that are being put forward. Something that is rather paradoxical is that the Danish People's Party really wants Danish education to be improved in Greenland. At the same time, however, we also know that the government has put forward a proposal which will actually reduce access to Danish education for Greenlanders living in Denmark. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112940	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525112945	This talk is in clear remembrance of the fact that we have had the debate as recently as this week. We have also pointed out on the part of all parties that it was not appropriate to suddenly pay for Danish teaching as Greenlander in Denmark. This is being dealt with, and we will find a solution to that, because of course it is not okay. The point that has been made here has not, of course, been taken into account. So, of course, we need a solution for it, so that the Greenlanders can get a Danish education that will raise their level, so that they can perhaps better look after an education or a job, or whatever they are doing here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113027	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I am very pleased that there is openness to that. This is something that has certainly been important for Inuit Ataqatigiit to work for. I cannot help commenting on this undertone, as I think it is, both in the rapporteur's speech, but also in some of the answers to our colleague, Mr President. Christian Juhl, about this with Greenland and Denmark and the whole relationship. Because I think there is an undertone of the fact that the Danish side is better able to find out things. That is actually what I feel as Greenlander, and I do not think that is very nice. So I would like to ask the rapporteur to clarify a little, perhaps, whether I have misunderstood what is being said, or is it an undertone that is, or an attitude that is, in the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113121	No, there's no undertone. Denmark stands by God, too, with challenges. We have ghetto areas here in Denmark where the state of law has been put out of effect. We also have some other conditions where you could say this isn't running on track. But when we take up exactly that with Greenland, it is only a concern for the people, precisely because we know that there are many who are actually miserable in Greenland. That is what we would like to support in every possible way, precisely in the spirit of the Kingdom Community. Everything from the fact that, of course, we must have the Danish education that is necessary to put into words the fact that when we take home an area, we also commit ourselves to this community that we have, to carry it out in the best possible way for the sake of the people. And there are massive challenges. That is just what we point out over and over again we would certainly like to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113222	The next question is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113232	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech and for the answers. I would like to follow up a little on the last question from the questioner about the undertone, which is also we hear analogys that it is a marriage and so on. In Denmark there are massive problems with discrimination against Greenlanders. The Institute of Human Rights mapped out a few years ago that the assumption of a well-functioning Greenlander is almost non-existent in Denmark. How does the rapporteur think that the discrimination against Greenlanders and the view of Greenlanders, which, of course, also affects the equal cooperation that we should have in the Kingdom community, can be rectified in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113323	No one should be discriminated against here in Denmark, not under conditions, and certainly not Greenlanders and Faroese people. But it is true that there has always been such an undertone that they were not equal Danes. But of course they are. We have told them time and time again that more needs to be done to improve the cohesion we have here. I have stood before the Minister for Culture here in Parliament and asked her what her attitude was, that a word was taken so condescendingly as Greenlandish-fisted in the official Danish dictionary. That's because we think this shouldn't happen. So it's not because we have to belittle it every time or say that Greenland doesn't have things under control, but because we actually want to take the leaf out of our mouths. And that is also why we have a proposal for adoption other than what is today, because the glaze on the cake can become so thin that it does not really have any content. When we started having the debate this morning, the Prime Minister said: here we must have an open debate, as usual. And that is also why we are taking the approach of doing so with our own proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113450	Thank you to the rapporteur for his reply. I do not hear any concrete initiatives that the DF wants to make to strengthen the fact that we do not have the extensive discrimination, that we do not have the extensive patronizing image of Greenlanders in Denmark and Greenland. I would like to know if there are any concrete initiatives besides making proposals on investment funds, which are actually some that Greenland itself has provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113527	Well, we have tried in every possible way to be an active part of the fact that we are all three nations in the Kingdom community • being equal people. We have helped to place money in the rate pool to maintain the Greenlandic Houses. And it's just to say that we always stand like the black sheep, as always it's said, they're just colonial masters and one and the other and the third. And nothing is further from reality. Well, we actually want equality in the Kingdom community, and it doesn't really matter if you're a Dane, a Greenlander or a Faroese.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113608	The next question is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113612	I think it is very good for all parties to support the bet pool. It is also for Greenlanders here in Denmark. The rapporteur says that he is in favour of the Kingdom community and that you must keep the Kingdom community because it is unique and beautiful and one and the other. The rapporteur is also talking about equality in the Kingdom community. There isn't. What is the Danish People's Party's bid for an equal kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113646	Yes, it is that we have the same standard of living, that we have the same rules to live under, and that we are sure to have fair treatment if we are going through the legal system; there we have some challenges in Greenland, and that is why I say it. In other words, the commitments we have from Denmark as regards the things that have not been taken home in Greenland, we must also live up to. Because I do not think that there should be any difference whether you have been raised in Nuuk, in Thorshavn or in Copenhagen, about getting a good life on this globe, getting a good education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113725	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113727	Up to 1979 Greenland had only one training opportunity, and that was the seminary. Only after Greenland got home rule did we get the education system in Greenland started, and we have come a long way with it today, and that is because it has happened on our own initiative despite 300 years of common history with Denmark. Does the rapporteur think that Greenland's future is only with Denmark, and if so, why?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113804	Greenland has the opportunity in the long term to resign from the Kingdom; it requires a constitutional change, and there are so many other things. But if it is actually a wish from the people of Greenland and the Faroe Islands, it is, after all, an opportunity that we just have to find the key to it. But when you think of Greenland's size, location, the number of citizens in Greenland, I have to say that it looks very, very difficult as to how Greenland could simply take care of security policy, the abolition of sovereignty and other things to the extent that it requires, in the world we are living today. So, 60 years ago, the situation looked very different than it is today; there have been many more players on the world market who are interested in Greenland and the Arctic, and it is for good and bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113916	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525113929	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Prime Minister, yes, just sit down, don't be surprised, because I think he has listened a lot in the last period and sat down in many of the debates that have been in our two sister or brother countries up north, when they have talked about independence, and when they have talked about the problems there are. I am also impressed by the common ground that has been between Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's initiatives, in particular, to negotiate concrete results, and that the ministerial offices have actually opened doors so that opportunities can be found. We can see in this statement that there are a whole lot of tiny concrete decisions, small and large amounts of money between each other that have been settled, and there are two sides to put that in place, and I would like to appreciate that. Because I think it is very, very important when Greenlandic politicians themselves try to say: let us try to solve the problems in concrete terms, our wishes are here and here. And if there is a minister on the other side of the table who says that it is actually possible to do so, it is very, very positive. Then I think that the tone of the independence issues is quite different in terms of constructive and involved at this stage. I remember the debates we have had where they said: don't get started too well, because this goes against the Danish constitution and so on. etc. But it is quite different, and that means that there is also a much more constructive and objective debate on these matters. The Kingdom is a community of three kingdoms, three countries, and all three countries want to be as self-employed as possible. I agree with the Prime Minister in his speech and that is the starting point we should take when discussing with each other. Of course, Denmark as a country would lose influence if the Faroe Islands and Greenland became independent countries. Why? Yes, because then we would not be able to sit at so many tables internationally, for example. is about the Arctic, as we would otherwise, because then it would be Greenland that fully decided the foreign policy for Greenland, and the Faroe Islands that did it for the Faroe Islands. That is true, and that is why we also have some mutual advantages. In fact, Denmark has some quite priceless advantages in being part of the Kingdom Community, which we should remember to mention when we talk about these things. If the two countries became self-employed, what I finally hope could be done for them, when there is a desire for it, then in some way the community will continue, in my opinion. There will be practical, economic and otherwise also cultural and historical need to continue cooperation, and it will then continue as the natural continuation of home government and self-government, etc. There are all the initiatives that have been taken along the way, and this is a smooth development which we should welcome. For every nation, every country has a dream, a desire to be master of its own house, and we must respect and support that. We actively and positively support the work of the Constitution in both countries, because it gives a very good debate about what kind of country you want to be and what kind of country you want to develop. The economy is of course a serious obstacle, especially for Greenland, but you can see from these papers that the Faroe Islands too have warning tones. When you base the majority of your economy on fish, you have to know that those fish can swim away and that they are suddenly no longer a source of income, or that the climate can change in a different direction, and that is why it is a very good idea that you also work with in the Faroe Islands, namely to work with a greater variety of sources of income. There is a great difference between the pace at which the two countries take matters home. The Faroe Islands seem to have a high pace and a great desire to take matters home, and it is always exciting when it happens. After all, I experienced that the Danish representation in the Faroe Islands had suddenly been minimized in terms of staff, because important areas had gone home, and of course the staff had moved to the Faroese recruitment list and worked on from there. Greenland is a little more careful about taking areas home, and if there are areas you want to go home, then we have to try to help with it. Then there are some specific problems which I think we need to point out more than in the statement, for example. the service contract at Thulebasen. And I would like to say to the Prime Minister that what I am doing now is almost asking a question, and that is: why have we not made progress on these negotiations? Why is there no solution to this? Is it because the Americans are completely indifferent to what we mean and what the Greenlanders think and that they do not care about ensuring that the Greenlanders have some jobs and some apprenticeships up there? In my opinion, the procedure that has been followed is scandalous. Then they have also lost transport to Thule at sea and there is a risk that in the coming year they will lose transport to Thule via the air, because the Americans will also take that area home. I think that's a bad thing. I think it's a bad thing that we don't say to the Americans: then you have to pay some rent. Because it cannot be that the Greenlanders should not benefit from being there. It can be said that Denmark may have a security advantage in that they have a base there. At least there are some who claim that it is and that we get some discounts in NATO, by allowing it, but it is the Greenlanders who should benefit from it in my opinion. The same goes for the big problem with Camp Century. After all, three new radio broadcasts have come up which reveal new things that we did not know, among other things. that there was a Danish official intelligence officer who was at Camp Century and could explain a slightly different story than the one we knew. I look forward to the consultation we should have with the Foreign Minister on this issue, because I think the developments that have taken place are quite mysterious. The Americans have apparently done what suited them up there, and there have also been people who have become ill along the way. Another very serious problem is the charts. No date has yet been set for when a Danish obligation to make the charts must be fulfilled. Sir. Prime Minister, how long can we live with the fact that we don't get those charts made just because your party ideologically wanted to move some jobs out before we had solved this problem? Had the government listened to several of the warning voices, among others. ours, you would have drawn the cards first and then considered the relocation. Here, the entire competence to draw charts was lost on the Spatial Data Board and had to buy expensive labor abroad to solve this task without a deadline. We need to set a date on that, and we need to find out when we're gonna do it. Then there is one issue which has not been touched on so much this time, but last time and again it was touched on a great deal, namely the children suffering from violence, violence and hunger, etc. in Greenland. This is unacceptable, but it is also important that we say to the Greenlanders that we should try further. I can see that some initiatives have been taken. Personally, I do not believe that they will solve the problems in the short term, but they may address some of them, and it is important that we, together with the Greenland Parliament and the Government, try to say: are there any more initiatives that we can take? It was a disastrous study that showed that up to a third of the children in Greenland were at risk, as we received a few years ago. In addition to that, it is quite unacceptable that we should wait a few more years for seal production to be popularised more by the European Union. The European Union has promised to launch a campaign for seal products and has promised to try to rectify the damage done to the campaigns against the capture of seals, and the United States has promised the same. But they didn't do anything. On the contrary, they have just helped passively to let the myths that it is illegal and such things go on. We have to press hard on that, because it can be an important income for Greenland, and that is why we must also look at it. Then I would like to say one more thing, and it should not all be praised, but we must at least pay tribute to what is positive. As far as whaling and IWC are concerned, Denmark went alone in the European Union and voted against the common position, and I think that was right, very sensible, because it was precisely based on a not very realistic approach to whaling and the position taken by the European Union would be detrimental to Greenland. Finally, we must try to discuss more about all this development funds, but also the fear that China is going in, and it has to be said, if you are afraid that China is going in, that Denmark or other people will have to go in with the economy and offer opportunities to develop business, etc. etc., otherwise China is the only alternative. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525114936	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525114944	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I would like to express my gratitude for the words of praise in the introduction, and I would like to acknowledge that, on a number of issues, the government has, in any case, responded to the wishes of Greenland, and I think that this is a very good starting point. It is the case in political negotiations that one must give and take and that one cannot always get the one hundred percent that one would like to have, but that is the way it is. I think it is important also to talk about the positive things that we have achieved in the Folketing as a whole. We are talking about relatively large sums of money, even when we are talking about strengthening defence. I see that the debate on independence is also a source of dissatisfaction, and that is why I think it is quite interesting to look at how we can replace the dissatisfaction that exists with some constructive, concrete, good things that fill the Kingdom community, one can say, or at least there is a better relationship, so that we can achieve each other better in the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115052	I fully agree with that, but I would like to admit that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's ability to take, not least when in a negotiating situation, is greater than that which I have had with most of the ministers, with one exception. It is not so much that I manage to get through negotiations with the current government, and that is why I note what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has succeeded in getting through. As far as dissatisfaction is concerned, I think that is absolutely right. It is very, very important that we change the attitude and say: let us hear what you are discussing in relation to independence; let us hear what proposals you have on how we could jointly support a greater effort for the children in Greenland; and let us hear what else we can do to develop industries, tourism, fisheries, fishing industry, etc., precisely to signal that we want each other, that we want to help each other and that we actually want to get closer in an equal way. I think that is very, very important. That would remove some of the myths in Denmark about Greenland, and that would be really, really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115200	One of the concrete measures that has been taken is that the Danish Parliament has set aside 10 million in the pool negotiations. kr. to strengthen the social area in Greenland with a special focus on children and young people. I think it is quite obvious for the Greenland Committee to become much more active in ensuring what comes out of it quite specifically. Another concrete proposal is an Arctic investment fund for which there has been a broad majority in favour in Greenland, with the exception of a single party, Partii Naleraq, and on behalf of Inuit Ataqatigiit I have done a great deal of lobbying to ensure that there should be an Arctic investment fund. But there hasn't been a Greenlandic wish for this fund, so what can be done now by the Danish Parliament to ensure that these investments are still a topic that is being discussed between Greenland and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115249	That was one of the reasons why I said I was looking forward to the Prime Minister coming back, because we have to try to discuss both the security policy and the investment issues and then try to see what is the facts and what is the myth. I think it is a natural thing that if we do not deliver in relation to an investment fund, then others will come and invest. Then there are others who come and say, "Here's some Chinese capital, will you use it?" And what will the Greenlanders say if that is the only option? Therefore, the Danes have to make up for themselves whether they are involved in creating such an investment fund. And I can well see that it has wide perspectives, especially when you also talk about the Arctic and not just about Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115329	The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115333	It sounds like a beautiful thought when the rapporteur says that of course you want to be master of your own house and speak very positively about Greenlandic or Faroese independence. I believe, of course, that the house in which we should be lords is the Kingdom Community, with room for partial self-determination, of course, as we have today. But let us say that we went the way the rapporteur speaks positively, and Greenland, for example. became independent and broke the ties to Denmark. Where would young Greenlanders go to further education? Where would they go to college? Who would be responsible for the military presence in Greenland, which is both very comprehensive and very costly? And not least: What about the really, very many strong family ties with Danes who have married Greenlanders who live in Denmark, and vice versa? Does the rapporteur not see any problems in these very, very large areas which will be torn apart by independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115434	There are certainly major challenges if you want to be independent. That is also true of an independent country such as Denmark. But I think it's a little easy for us to talk to the Greenlanders and the Faroes and say, "You just have to think it's best with the kingdom community, and we want to keep you so much." We will do so for several reasons: a cynical intention in the area of security and a cynical intention in the area of economics. There it is an advantage for Denmark to be in the Kingdom Community. But there are also a lot of other things, emotional, historical, family members, and why should we break those ties? I did not propose that. I have suggested that we extend it to three independent countries if the Faroe Islands and Greenland so wish and if they can solve their problems. And there I think it's too easy for us Danes, who have our independence and have had it for, I don't know how many years. In any case, the most optimistic people say that we have had it for 1,000 years. But we have had our independence, and sometimes some have taken part in our country, but we are still an independent country in essential areas. And we have fortunately been so clever that we have had a development that has gone from colony to home government to autonomy in Greenland, and in the case of the Faroe Islands there has been almost a parallel development, a development where we are more and more saying: Take it home if you like; manage it yourself, control your area • area by area. It is, of course, the process that we should not be sorry about, but be happy about. For Mr. Marcus Knuth would never dream of saying that Denmark does not need an independence greater than that of Greenland or the Faroe Islands. You could never say that as a Dane. That is why I believe that we should then understand the background to being independent. It's extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115614	I believe that in the situation we have today, where we have a kingdom community and a landsting in Greenland, we have the best of both worlds, and that is what I think is so important to safeguard. I believe that it would be deeply damaging to Greenland and deeply damaging to Denmark if one went into independence tomorrow. So let us just focus on the economic issue: can the rapporteur see a Greenlandic independence where you no longer receive a Danish block grant?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115648	Nothing is static, although we have parties dreaming that we will get Denmark to Ejderen, and what do I know, and put Greenland under administration. Nothing is static, and we are on a road with the Faroe Islands and Greenland that goes towards more autonomy. I think it is with a fine word irreversible. Even if the largest government party opposes it and explains that it is not good, the independence movement is irreversible, and in 10-15 years, perhaps 20 years, both countries will be self-employed. They want a good economy and they want to develop both business and tourism so that they can manage.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115730	The next question is Mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115736	Thank you. It is, of course, the case that successive prime ministers over the past many years have said that it is expected that the Folketing will respect a decision by the Faroese people that you want independence. But at no time has Denmark recognised Faroese self-determination towards the international community. Does the rapporteur think that Denmark should do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115806	Yes, of course they do. I also believe that they have done so in a number of areas in practice by being part of the process which has now been leading to the discussion of the Constitution. So in this way I think that yes, and you might as well say that clearly, that is what Denmark is doing, and yes, we are actually an active part of that process, and even if there is debate between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, that is what is happening. Moreover, we can try to address all the problems that the rapporteur of the Left has said before, on the road to independence. They are solved in Iceland, for example. There is no great problem in discussing how they are doing with defence, how they are doing with foreign policy. They are doing quite well, and it would also be possible to do so here. We might as well acknowledge it, and I also sense that the Prime Minister is on a journey in his approach to this and, in fact, more and more is involved in debating and meeting with Faroese and Greenlanders about these things. I see this as a concrete process and, as I said before, it cannot be reversed, we might as well keep up with it and make the best of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115922	The questioner has not pressed for a follow-up question. Is there one? There isn't. We move on to the next question, which is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525115931	In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur mentions something about Camp Century, Camp Century, which is an American military site on the inland ice, where they also built a nuclear reactor which is just left behind and today constitutes pollution on the inland ice and a threat in the future in terms of environmental pollution. The rapporteur also mentions that the situation is actually different from what the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister start out with, and also refers to some radio programmes and some reports. Can the rapporteur elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120007	Yeah, I can do that. After all, we will now have a very good opportunity with the Foreign Minister in time for two rapporteurs, and I think we will even have a few hours to discuss it. Camp Century is not included in the funding for clean-up after the Americans, which is given, of 180 million. kr. Camp Century is a very special question which is being examined, and we have not received the answers yet. But my personal view is that when you pollute in another country and have been a guest in another country, you just have to clean up and pay what it costs to clean up. Anything else would be obscene. I know that there are no examples of the Americans doing it elsewhere, but we must then be the first example of a country saying: "Get your wallet up and clean up'. I'm not gonna wait to clean up. I think that we should, together with Greenland, clean up the radioactive waste that lies there and stop the risk of it leaking into the oceans, which is why it is important that we say that we start initiatives and then we have to fight for the bill. That's my point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120111	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120115	The rapporteur also mentioned the American presence in the form of Pituffik and also mentions the service contract in Pituffik. The government believes that the foreign and security policy aspect is very important and that it should be included in the Community debate. It is also mentioned today by the Prime Minister that foreign policy and security policy are subject to Danish jurisdiction. It is also under Pituffik, and with regard to the service contract. You didn't have that under control. The service contract was lost and thus Greenland's only chance of getting a little out of the presence of the Americans. It disappeared. What can the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120153	It did, among other things. because the Danish government at that time would take more account of the EU's procurement rules and thus provide a very, very weak tender basis, which could be misused by the Americans. That is what we got out of it, and it is the responsibility of the Danish Government to rectify it. I would like this to happen by giving Greenland the jobs that could be possible on the base, and especially the places of learning that could be possible on the base, so that it could also give some income to Greenlandic society. But if that is not possible, we must find a way for the Americans to compensate financially for the loss that Greenland has. That must be the objective of these negotiations. We do not know what the negotiations are like. It is, after all, very closed negotiations that are taking place between the foreign ministries in Denmark and the United States. I hope for the best of those negotiations, because it is a quite, quite unfortunate situation that we have ended up in with the service agreement and which may also seem to be getting worse, by the fact that water transport and air transport are also in danger of smoking away from the Greenlandic area and becoming purely American.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120257	The next question is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120259	Thank you. In these debates there is often a lot of focus on what Greenland gets out of this community, and what the Faroe Islands get out of it, like in terms of money, access to different things and such things, while there has been less focus on what benefits Denmark has from the kingdom community. I appreciate that it comes in more and more, as did the rapporteur, and in the Taksø report there is a great deal of focus on the fact that it is the Kingdom Community that allows Denmark to become what is called an Arctic power. Could it perhaps be an idea, following on from what the rapporteur is talking about, that such an analysis was made, in which one tried to analyse what Denmark gets out of the Kingdom Community? Which tables can you get to, which doors can you get in from, because you are in a kingdom community with the two Nordic countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120355	It could be a really, really good idea, because then there would be fewer myths in our discussions and more facts. I discussed the other day with some people who asked: If Greenland was given a completely free opportunity to sell their fish instead of having to send them via Denmark to the market, how much is there to earn from it? There were so many people with knowledge in the fisheries sector who said: for Denmark, this is an amazing advantage, which finely cancels the annual grant. That is why we must remember that there are some indirect revenues for Danish society which are huge. I don't know anything about those mechanisms, but it's such things that I think we should also remember if it's the facts that we investigate and also take it into the gross accounts, so we know what goes in and what goes out. What is going to be difficult is to say what Denmark's position in the Arctic debate is worth in crowns and ears, that is, that we are sitting at the negotiating table. Is it worth anything to Danish society? Yeah, it certainly is, but it's probably hard to make up a penny or a penny.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120502	In the absence of any further brief comments, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. We move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, who is rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120515	Thank you. I would first like to congratulate the Greenlandic people on a successful election on 24 April. It was an election and a prior election campaign that has so much helped to focus on the Kingdom community recently. Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a very thorough and detailed written statement on the Kingdom Community between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. It is clear from the written statement that there are currently economically good times in the Faroe Islands, but with the prospect of decreasing growth. A decreasing trend is already to track in the Greenlandic economy. But regardless of more or less good economic times, there must always be a long political light on the economic development of the whole Kingdom community, as is also shown by the Prime Minister's statement on the Kingdom Community anno 2018. The Liberal Alliance wishes to maintain a strong and cooperative kingdom and also believes that future economic reforms carried out in part of the Kingdom community should be an inspiration for economic reforms in other parts of the Kingdom community. Large infrastructure projects are in the pipeline, and especially the airport construction in Greenland has attracted attention in recent times for several reasons. The call in this connection must be to take a deep breath and put cold water in the blood. At least it hurts not to listen to what, for example. The chairman of the Greenland Economic Council says when he directly advises against building and warns against an excessively loose economic basis for the project. Here in Denmark, we are not just setting ourselves on infrastructure projects corresponding to 17 major belt bridges, but the Liberal Alliance wants to support the ongoing development towards increased self-determination and constitutionalisation in the Faroe Islands and Greenland and believes that the increasing focus on the development of the Arctic regions of the Kingdom should be initiated and driven by a broad majority of local democracies. Further transfer of responsibilities from Denmark to the Faroe Islands and to Greenland must take place on an ongoing basis, and it is therefore also gratifying that the Faroe Islands will take over the right of person, family and inheritance this year, and I understand that the new government of self-government in Greenland will work specifically to take over the food and veterinary sector. The social area has been taken home by Greenland, but this does not mean, however, that we in the Danish Parliament should look at the blind eye when it comes to socially vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. In the context of the 2017 Rate Pool Agreement, funds were set aside for enhanced cooperation and professional sparring between Danish and Greenlandic authorities regarding supervision in the social field. It is my sincere hope that we will soon see the fruit of that effort and bring out some more positive statistics and personal reports. But the Commonwealth is more than just a constitutional community, it is also a cultural and linguistic community, and therefore perhaps there should also be more language understanding for the Greenlandic and Faroese languages in the Danish primary school, but certainly also maintaining Danish as a first foreign language in the North Atlantic. The Danish language will hopefully for a very long time still be one of the strongest ties between the three peoples of the Kingdom community. In the new Danish defence agreement, emphasis has of course also been placed on the North Atlantic parts of the kingdom community, and there are among other things. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. kr. to clean up after former American military presence in Greenland. All in all, it must be concluded that the Kingdom community is challenged by a legitimate desire for greater autonomy, but it is also worth remembering to strengthen the historical ties between Greenland, Denmark and the Faroe Islands. So many thanks to the Prime Minister for a thorough written statement and a fine presentation in this Chamber today. The statement has been taken note of and LA supports the text of the resolution presented by the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120953	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525120955	The rapporteur made a comment on the 180 million. kr. To clean up after the Americans. After all, no money has yet been set aside for Camp Century, because further studies need to be carried out. But what is the Liberal Alliance's attitude towards the cleanup in both Camp Century and the cleanup after the Americans? Should it not be the polluter who cleans up after him? Is it the task of the Danish state and the Kingdom to clean up after the Americans when they have been allowed to be in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525121029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525121030	This is basically a sensible position expressed by the rapporteur, and with regard to the very specific situation here, I would recommend that the rapporteur put the question to the Prime Minister, who will come up here afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525121044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525121046	Yes, but I'm not sure the Prime Minister will respond to the Liberal Alliance's position on the question. That's why I asked. Another thing is... Well, it all went away. I have to skip the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525121104	Does the rapporteur have any comments on this? No. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Roger Courage Matthisen as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525121120	Thank you for that, President. And thanks to the Prime Minister for the statement on the Kingdom Community, it is interesting both to read it and to hear the debate today. I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to talk again about the Kingdom Community, both in terms of what it looks like today, but also in the future. It is always a complicated debate because there is so much difference between the Faroe Islands and Greenland in the same kingdom community. But I really would like to congratulate the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Christian Juhl, because it is true that we hear new tones from our Prime Minister in terms of a willingness to listen to the interests that prevail. This is both in terms of independence wishes and not least in terms of an independent dialogue on the part of both countries, but also in terms of business interests in Greenland. So to begin with, I would like to strike a blow as to why we remember each other that it is the community of the Kingdom that we must safeguard; that it is the community and the cooperation that are essential for each of us to be stronger and united. Basically, in the alternative, we think that we should appreciate the diversity of the Kingdom Community. By virtue of our differences, not in spite of that, we must be equal partners, each of which contributes our own strength and strength, and it is monumentally different, our power and strength, and should be priced in this way. That is why we support the alternative if the peoples of Greenland and the Faroe Islands want independence and if they want to participate in the community on more equal terms, we also support it. It is good to read that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands are experiencing economic progress; it is also due to fishing, and I am glad that quota king challenges are also being addressed, just as we are doing at home. Both countries are also facing demographic challenges that have an impact on the sustainability of the economy, and it is also positive that measures are being discussed and that reforms are being discussed and, of course, we are following those developments. In June last year West Greenland experienced a tsunami that led to a mountain slip at Karrat's Fjord. The tsunami was an unhappy natural event, resulting in loss of life and the removal of housing, business base and place of residence for the inhabitants of the two settlements affected. I am pleased that Parliament was given support for self-government to help create a new life for those affected. In the alternative, we also hope that the tragic incident will sharpen Parliament's attention to climate change and the consequences they have. Climate change removes the permafrost in many places. American researchers, British researchers and Norwegian researchers all point out that it increases the risk of landslides and associated tsunami. Again, I would like to remind you of the community of the Kingdom and say that we are therefore in common on the challenges of climate change. I do not think there is any doubt in the House that climate challenges are really pushing globally and that this is a huge challenge in Greenland and for the people of Greenland. I would like to punk the myth that climate change will not affect us very much in Denmark, I believe they will, and especially when all parties want our kingdom community. So we have to face the challenges. The temperature rises twice as much in the Arctic as the global average temperature, the sea ice is receding, and conditions are changing for the peoples of the Arctic. I will come back to that, because at the same time new shipping routes are emerging, new opportunities for mining and fishing, and this calls for urgent solutions. Because it is about monitoring the consequences of increased activity, monitoring pollution and agreements that ensure people in the Arctic and the environment in the Arctic. The use of new technology for this purpose can be a very good tool. When we talk about the climate, it is necessary for Denmark to take the lead when it comes to pursuing a green, sustainable, ambitious climate policy. Arctic climate challenges are a global problem, a common problem. Therefore, consideration of the Arctic must be given to all our policies. Unfortunately, I see only small initiatives here, isolated initiatives. A holistic policy is needed to radically transform our production and consumption patterns. Denmark should not use its influence in the Arctic to ensure that we just have our own interests taken into account. So how do we take the lead in stopping global warming, warming in the Arctic, and ensuring that the Paris agreement in cooperation is respected, first and foremost at home, and, of course, that Greenland takes its responsibility for this? Some parts of the community have social and economic challenges. It is not just the responsibility of the individual; it is also a shared responsibility. I am pleased to read that the Greenlandic authorities are working with the Danish Social Protection Agency on socially vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. There are also socially vulnerable in Denmark, which in many ways is affected by the same social problems that vulnerable Danes are. But there are also cultural and linguistic barriers that make them particularly vulnerable. We have talked about this earlier today. Here I would like to mention that diversity is once again so important for us to relate to and safeguard. Although there are also many things that bind us together, we are different, and we must continue to be sensitive to that rather than comparing ourselves to one. Especially here, I often hear today that it is Danish solutions that are emphasised, instead of Greenlandic solutions or instead of protecting and helping Greenlandic solutions become the main solutions in Greenland. This also applies to the Faroe Islands. In the alternative, we believe that more knowledge needs to be created and taught more in the kingdom community and the historical relations that exist between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. It is also an important stone in taking the Kingdom community for granted. Together, we must have our eyes sharpened for all opportunities and, of course, also challenges. And it is important that young people face the future enlightened and with the opportunity to be critical. It is even more important, therefore, that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are involved in the process of developing this teaching material so that countries can recognise themselves in the portraits. It simply cannot be right for teaching material to appear with factual errors. It cannot be right that we have a basic assumption that we do not know enough about Greenlanders or that they do not have a positive reputation in Denmark, which I referred to earlier in the Institute for Human Rights report, a holistic, positive impression. With that said, especially with our children and future generations in mind, our children and young people are far more globally and technically conscious than I was at their age. As a young man, my understanding of the world came from the Danish Radio, the country's only television channel, and through the movie box and the films we rented on the petrol tank. Today, young people have access to information and news almost before journalists have. They live with a globalised mindset in a globalised world, and they see and feel the effects of global inequality. It is an inequality that has historically started with the colonization of Europeans, including our own colonies in Greenland, the Arctic, in the former Danish West Indies, the Caribbean, Tranquebar, India and in the former Gold Coast in West Africa, and the post-colonial structures that today hamper global equality and equal trade. I am convinced that more knowledge, education and knowledge of the Kingdom, of Greenland, of our colonial history and, above all, of the present conditions will provide the basis for the failure to resolve these unequal structures into a natural and more action-oriented desire to create a more equal world with equal opportunities for all of our future generations. There is no doubt that the development of the Arctic and the Kingdom Community creates both new challenges and new opportunities, and we hope that Denmark will maintain a course of economic, social and environmental sustainable development with respect for both indigenous peoples and peoples. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122041	There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122044	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I share the rapporteur's concerns about climate change. On the part of the IA, we want Greenland to accede to the Paris Agreement, but there is no political majority in favour of this, as I understand it. One might say that Greenland's efforts in relation to climate change may be a drop in the ocean, but in many ways I also think it is an important signal to send out that we are helping to take global responsibility, especially when we see climate change so clearly before our eyes. Another issue raised by the rapporteur was that of discrimination and racism. I think that lately there has been a very good example of Operation Daywork, which would like to inform Danish young people about Greenland and raise money for some teaching material. It takes place from young to young, you can say, and they can tell something to Danish young people about Greenland, unlike some dusty textbooks that tell more about history instead of telling about modern Greenlandic society. Could it be imagined that there were several such initiatives that were not necessarily politically initiated, but that perhaps there was cooperation across the political system and with other voluntary forces that could help ensure that there was more knowledge about Greenland in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122207	Certainly, and thank the author for his comments and questions. In line with the future strategy for the lgbt area, where we know that we need a much greater focus on the permanent operating resources for these organisations, for these grassroots initiatives, it's clearly the same thing we see in relation to this equal information and education and knowledge in the kingdom community. We need permanent means of operation for these grassroots initiatives in order to strengthen co-existence. So I can only back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122242	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122243	When we look at concrete examples of racism and discrimination, I also think it is extremely important that there are some sanctions. Today, for example, we have. The Equal Opportunities Board, which has the opportunity to go in and examine whether discrimination or racism has actually occurred. I would like us to have a few more sanctions, because if we do not have proof that there has been real discrimination or racism here, then it is also difficult to crack down on it. For then it becomes a feeling of the individual, which in some way is not recognised. I think that it might be interesting to discuss, in relation to Greenlanders in Denmark, what specific sanctions might be available where discrimination or racism could occur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122324	Thank you again for your comments. This is a very important area to which the rapporteur refers there. I also think it is important to note that the 2012 report by the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs, which specifically talks about discrimination in Denmark on the basis of ethnicity, concludes that the area is relatively not conscious or elucidated in Denmark. So we need to have a little more focus on statistics and figures and also to uncover dark figures for discrimination in Denmark. Just a few days ago we saw it in relation to discrimination against brown Danes, Danes with minority backgrounds, from the police, which must also be curbed. So I fully agree with the rapporteur that we need to focus much more on that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122417	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Next in line, sir. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525122428	Thank you very much, President. I feel a bit like in the famous scene in the movie Festival, where the protagonist stands with two different speeches he could make. I feel the same way today, because I think it is the case with the Kingdom community that there are good days when you wake up and think: how wonderful it is that we have developed together. This has given Greenland and the Greenlanders the best living conditions that some originally Inuit people have in the world with very great self-determination, increasing autonomy and high ambitions to become fully independent, supported by a collaboration with Denmark and the Faroe Islands, also to attract investment. The development of society is going the right way and has enormous prospects, because, as several rapporteurs have said, the area will become more accessible through climate change and with even greater opportunities for trade, transport, extraction of raw materials, etc. etc. There are good days when you wake up and think that's what the kingdom community is like. But there are also days when one wakes up and thinks: The glass is not half full; it is half empty. It is a community of kingdoms which suffers from striking indifference for most Danes. We do not have it on the school schedule, we do not have it close enough under our skin in our daily political activities, and we are too few who are aware of the real importance it has for our country, our culture and our opportunities for foreign policy, our economic potential, etc. And in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, where you follow the political debate, things are not much better, because there you speak much more about Denmark than we talk about Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but it is not a particularly nice speech that is. It is often a very negative speech, which is about having great historical hangs, one might say, on Denmark. One wants to free oneself as soon as possible and thinks that Denmark is arrogant, and one thinks that the whole Kingdom community creaks tremendously. It's blocking the first experience. It blocks to take advantage of the many opportunities and potentials that these three small states could have together in the gluttonous sea of globalisation. When you can make both speeches, both the positive and the negative, it is of course because the kingdom community is everything and both stories have something true in them. That is why I think today is about discussing how we can promote the first story for the benefit and joy of all three parts of the Kingdom community, and how we can avoid falling into the ditch grave, where we use our resources and our political forces to talk down our joint project. I don't have a miracle cure. We have been through the classic discussions about why it should be so difficult to create an investment fund that can contribute to new sustainable investments that can develop both the Greenlandic and Faroese economies, and which, moreover, can pave the way for greater economic autonomy and therefore also political autonomy, because you have the power to take back more areas. We have also discussed history and the responsibility of the Danish part of the community, for example. in the form of cleaning up the U.S. bases. We have been through the whole debate on languages, which has been a Greenlandic discussion for many decades. I actually think it's very simple. It is true that the responsibility lies with Greenland, but as a Danish politician one can therefore express oneself on what one thinks. The more years I follow that debate, the more I find it difficult to see another solution than the need to learn all three languages on which the debate today shows agreement: Greenlandic, Danish and English. We are, after all, because in Greenland there is a large population that speaks only Danish, there is an even larger population that speaks only Greenlandic, and there is a great need for everyone to be able to commit themselves in English as well. That is how I think it is to be a small language tribe, and that is also why all Danes learn to speak English. Unfortunately, we cannot expect so many people to speak Danish in the big world. But how do we proceed? Is there a way we can talk to and stimulate the positive forces of all three parts of our Kingdom community? I am a little fascinated by that idea, since the current Arctic strategy will expire in a very short time and a half years from now, the Arctic strategy will have expired and a new one will have to be created. I think it will be difficult to create a new Arctic strategy under the auspices of the Kingdom Community if we do not at the same time have a common strategy for the Kingdom Community. I'm not talking about new constitutions or anything very violent, but I'm talking about getting a little closer to what Greenlandic expectations, Faroese expectations and Danish expectations of the kingdom community are, respectively, and how we can help each other to promote those expectations. I feel like many others who have been on the platform today that I have no desire for the Commonwealth to end or for the Feds or the Greenlanders to separate themselves, but I fully understand that there may be the need for independence in all peoples, and I also have no difficulty in seeing for me a new strategy for the Commonwealth, which gives Greenland and the Faroe Islands, if they so wish, greater autonomy, because it is, of course, if I may say so, the right of the countries and peoples. But, on the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that the shortest and most equal way to real self-determination, including economic self-determination, is through stronger cooperation, like-minded and free cooperation between the three parts, with full respect between the parts. I may be wrong, but I think it is worth trying to have a discussion on whether we can lay the foundations for a new strategy for the Kingdom community, on which we can then build an Arctic strategy. I believe it could make the kingdom community bigger. I believe that there are common denominators between what Greenlanders and Danes and Faroese want. I believe that we have far, far more chance of pursuing the dreams we have for our respective countries and cultures by doing so together instead of separately. And I would even put it this way, without it becoming too theatrical, that as the world is currently developing around the Kingdom community, south of us, east of us, west of us, I find it hard to see that we can find any more stable port, something more trusting cooperation than turning us against each other instead of apart. So it has to be a thought that I hope my dear colleagues will take both those who come from the north in the Commonwealth and from the South will go and consider a little, and perhaps also the Prime Minister, that is, that when we embark on a new Arctic strategy, we will also build on a common strategy for the development of the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123237	There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123240	Many thanks to the rapporteur for a good speech, which is always inspiring; it is very good to hear. When I'm back in Greenland, I sometimes think that the way we look at the good life may be a little different, and in the time I've been sitting in the Folketing, I can also see that there has been a development. It can be said that in many ways Danish society is a competitive society where prosperity is a value that is very much appreciated. And it isn't because we don't want growth and development in Greenlandic society too, but for a lot of Greenlanders, it's at least a lot more about the close one, it's about the family, it's about the many relationships you have because you're so close to each other. I think it is important that we sometimes look at it with the different glasses and also understand the other side and can meet each other in this way, and I think that is important when we talk about autonomy. When we look at it realistically, we can see that there is only one party in Greenland that talks about wanting to be independent in 2021 - they are the only ones who set dates. It can be said that there is, after all, a political majority in favour of independence, but it will take some time. Therefore, I also find it interesting to look at how we can be comfortable with each other in the time we are together in the relationships we now have. It is not necessarily a matter of a lot of legal frameworks, that is, that we need to change the constitution within the next five years. It is also about the fact that we have a self-government law which gives a fairly broad mandate to be able to modernise and develop the kingdom community. How could you imagine putting some more content into that part? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123428	I think there are many correct considerations in Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's analyses here. I mean, I read the Greenlandic election in the same way. There is no doubt that there is a very great desire for independence, as all Greenlandic parties of importance also indicate, but there is no doubt that by far the majority of the Greenlandic population want to take it at a pace so that you can join in. It is so true that we may have different ideas about the good life. I now believe that there are many reflections in Denmark about what the good life is in the development we are in. But we have one thing in common, and that is that our society is changing at a rapid pace. Just the phenomenon that could be called urbanisation is probably hardly more violent anywhere than in Greenland, where the migration to Nuuk goes very, very fast and is creating a whole new dynamic in the development of Greenlandic society. This does not alter the fact that there are still differences of opinion on the good life, but we do have in common the fact that the good life we are now pursuing must be pursued, while at the same time our society, due to a variety of conditions, technology and so on. I think that the way one could go about it would be to say: Whether the area is now in Greenland or Denmark, or not, we are still affecting each other in that area. And we can raise the targets that we may have, for example. in relation to social management, education, security, better if we do it together, that is, wherever it is formal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123605	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123606	Thank you very much. Every time I go in and re-read the self-government law, I really think it is very clear that there is huge potential. This has been seen with Greenlandic glasses, and I could imagine that with Danish glasses too. I think that in many ways it could be very interesting to see how we can further develop the self-government wheel. There is a researcher who has said that it is a wheel which, like only exists as long as it is moving or there is progress. Therefore, I also find it interesting to discuss how to ensure increased participation by Greenland, for example. forward-looking in foreign policy matters. So I would like to put that question to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123651	I am very pleased with the questions that come from Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, because I think these are the right questions. So, my experience is that we have a skeleton that is the Self-Government Act, where we have the whole formal framework to extend and strengthen Greenland's real independence in a direction that the Greenlanders want, and in cooperation with the rest of the kingdom community. And what we lack in many areas, I think, is to put meat on that skeleton, that is to say to make it clear what the goal is, where we want to go in these different areas and how we can work together on it. As far as foreign policy is concerned, we also have a clear formal framework. I do not think that there is any wish on the Danish side other than to involve the Greenlanders and the Faroes as much as possible, but we can certainly do better than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123743	The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123746	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, both on the rapporteur's view of the Community as well as on its importance, but above all on the importance of the Community in these times, as we stand in foreign policy, and it has to be said that the rapporteur knows better than anyone else. At the same time, however, I would like to ask where the rapporteur is in relation to the question of the priority of Danish versus English. So, the rapporteur says that all three languages must be learned in Greenland. And that's very easy, but now I think everyone agrees on that. The question is the priority of that. In other words, the rapporteur agrees with, among other things. My concern that it would not be good or positive for Greenlandic young people to downgrade Danish in favour of English?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123831	I would of course think, although it is a Greenlandic decision, that it is most obvious to look at what mother tongue the people have who live in Greenland. And the native languages in Greenland are Greenlandic and Danish. A large majority speaks Greenlandic as a native language, and there is a large minority who speak Danish, and that is why it will be my natural starting point. One can say that in the Faroe Islands you speak all three parts, but what is the difference is, of course, that there are the language tribes also a little more alike than they are between Greenlandic and Danish. On the other hand, one can say that speaking first Danish, that is what I suppose, without making myself a great linguist easier to learn English and vice versa. We had a visit from an Indian delegation in the Folketing the other day, and there I actually asked them: How do you deal with such a large kingdom with such different languages? And there the head of the delegation told me what I did not actually know that in India the vast majority of people speak at least three languages: their local language, their regional language and their national common language, which is then English, which everyone has to be able to speak, otherwise nobody can talk to everyone, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123954	I just wanted to say thank you. I think that was a very good point.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525123959	The next question is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124003	The process of self-sufficiency is a process which must be seen from a historical perspective. The Greenlandic people have also over time asked themselves what we have in common with Denmark and what it is that binds us together. Very often we hear stories that people were forced to move to Thule because the Americans had to build an airport; they have made Greenlandic children legally fatherless; they have shut down Ilulissat because they did not think it was economically interesting enough; and they have allowed the Americans to ensnare the Greenlandic nature and the inland ice, in the form of nuclear reactors which they have just left behind. These are the things that lie in the minds of the Greenlandic people, which also affect our relations with Denmark, which I think is quite natural and fair. When the rapporteur speaks of trust in the Kingdom community, what can be done to strengthen confidence in the Kingdom community according to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124106	First of all, we must not be pale on the Danish side in order to recognise that it is not all the decisions we have made in history that we have reason to be equally proud of. I have no reason to hide that in any way. Personally, I was rather dismayed to read about how the entire building around Camp Century is being handled and how secret it was from the then Prime Minister. It was not only the Greenlanders, I should like to say, who were not told, nor did the Danish Parliament and Foreign Policy Name, nor the party that took part in the government with the Prime Minister, namely my own, so it was one, I think, sprung affair. It should also be borne in mind that many of the decisions that today appear to be completely insane were, in the light of the times, difficult, necessary decisions. At the time when many of these things happened, it was felt that the alternative to countering the Americans was a Soviet invasion, and not only had one's own Danish security to decide, one should also take into account the safety of the Greenlanders and the security and territorial integrity of the Faroe Islands, and therefore I think, without having to make myself quite aware, that at that time it has been thought that there is no choice in this. I do not think it was wise to do it as secretly as you did, but I think you have done it, if I may say so, because you thought it was the right decision. The fact that sometimes today we can see that it wasn't is a different matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124245	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124245-2	Greenland talks with China, and China makes representations to Greenland because they want bilateral cooperation, among other things. the Chinese have made a bid for the actual tender round for the construction of large airports, as is planned, and then the Prime Minister says in his statement that there are therefore some foreign and security policy issues to be taken into account when it is countries like China that you want to talk to. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124322	In a way, I think that's quite acceptable. If the actual construction of an airport is offered, I believe that anyone can, should and should be able to bid, but if there is going to be some kind of financing structure in which critical infrastructure is taken indirectly, if I may say so, as collateral, I fully agree with the Prime Minister that we are moving into something that has quite major security and foreign policy implications.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124352	The next question is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124355	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good and frank speech. The rapporteur criticised Denmark for showing too little interest in the Community with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and then he criticised Greenland and the Faroe Islands under one to speak only negatively about the Community and about Denmark. I don't know if it's a parallelity that this is leading up to, i.e. there are parallels between Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which you put up with in this debate, but I don't recognize that. There is very strong support for the community with Denmark in the Faroe Islands because you see it as a system where there is no contradiction between the community and independence, but where you can develop your independence in a community. So I do not recognise the picture that the rapporteur spoke of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124446	I have to admit, I may have just been a little generalizing. I'd like to take that on. I'm really happy with that line from sir. Sjúrður Skalales side. I find that, firstly, Greenland and the Faroe Islands are two very different communities in incredibly diverse areas, geographically, geologically, culturally, linguistically, on all sides, economically and politically, so for that reason alone, of course, I cannot just cut them over a comb. In addition, it is also true, but I really think that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland have a debate, so there is not one Faroese opinion on this issue, which the two Faroese representatives in the Danish Parliament very well illustrate, just as there is not one position in Greenland, and just as we in the Danish Parliament also have different nuances and opinions on the future of the Danish community. That is, of course, something to be said, and I am glad that the rapporteur clarified this, because I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124554	I am now in favour of the Faroe Islands having as much autonomy as possible. I think that is an incredibly important driving force in society. However, the debates that have been held in Europe in recent years have made many people aware that the arrangement we have may not be so stupid. So, the Scots want some things, the Catalans want some things; in Flanders, Corsica, Catalonia, the Basque Country, etc. You want things that you think can only be achieved by secession from the state you belong to now. To this one can say in the Faroe Islands: Well in the scheme that we have so in the community we can set the fly legs by, as it were, all the wishes of the Scots and the Catalans. And if we look at the small states, which are formally states, Liechtenstein, Andorra, San Marino, Luxembourg, etc., we see that we also have more autonomy than they do. I think many people have become aware of this in recent years, and the debates that have been in Europe show that the arrangement that we have is good. This does not mean that it is perfect, and I also strongly criticise the government when it is like that, for example. Last year, the Faroe Islands tried to cancel an agreement with Iceland and that kind of thing. Every time you try to reduce the Faroe Islands' room for manoeuvre internationally, I criticise it. But basically it is a very good arrangement, and I think we can be more aware of that, just as we should also show out in Europe that it is a system that we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124718	I share that analysis from A to Z, and it has to be said that it is quite a unique international construction. On the one hand, you stick together where you get bigger by it, and on the other hand, you try to give as much autonomy as possible in relation to the things that I almost said mean something to people in everyday life, including the ability to manage language and so on. But it is also true, as the rapporteur says, that things can always improve. Well, it can always be developed. There is always potential also to promote a greater sense of independence in real and formal terms. It is also an important part of the uniqueness of that construction that we can both. So I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124818	Then it's mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124819	I should now like to come to the rapporteur's assistance and say that he is right in saying that there are many people in the Faroe Islands who can easily find out how to talk critically about the so-called Kingdom Community of which we are part. I understand perfectly well the idea that there is a need to, what should one say, coordinate a strategy for cooperation with Greenland and the Faroe Islands and then what one wants in the Arctic, with Danish policy, because what does Denmark have to offer in an Arctic policy if one does not have Greenland in particular, but also the Faroe Islands in that pool, if one can say so? And one of the very important things in this case is that, for example, the system of home government that applies to the Faroe Islands, unlike my colleague, I think is a very strict unitary state interpretation on behalf of the Danish state, which makes the Faroe Islands extremely difficult to develop in the international community, as we have to in a globalised world. Does Martin Lidegaard take a positive view of ending the idea of a single state and opening up another form of cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525124929-2	Not surprisingly, I am less in agreement with the interpretation of the Kingdom community than I was in the statements of the other Faroese delegates. Now, I just want to say, for the sake of order, that I fully respect the fact that it is the Faroe Islands and the Faroe Islands that are ultimately going to make these decisions, but when I look at the world today and the challenges we all face, from climate to war and destruction in various places and unstable regimes, I really find it hard to see personally that if you are a small country, and we are all three of us small together, you would have more pleasure in standing alone, if I may say so, in the foaming sea, which not least the Faroe Islands are in, also literally, than in trying to join the rags with other countries that both have a history understanding, but perhaps also a democracy understanding and tradition, which is very similar to our own. And although I know that there are great cultural differences and perceptions of good life, I would nevertheless say that when it comes to some of the more fundamental things, the concept of equality, equality, the understanding of democracy, etc., we are very pleased to be together.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125103	I also understand very well the common values which mean something cultural and democratic, etc., and which Martin Lidegaard mentions in this context. But what I was actually asking was the model of cooperation that should be the basis for future cooperation between these three countries, and in my optics it cannot continue in a way where Denmark runs first class and the rest of us drive second class. It must develop into cooperation between three equal partners if it is to be expected that it will last in the long run. And that is what I am asking, in other words, whether we are prepared to let go of the idea of a single state, in the framework of the constitution, in order to strike a kind of cooperation in which everyone is well placed, even in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125153	To that there is only to say that if the day comes when the Faroe Islands or Greenland agree with themselves that you want to leave the Commonwealth and become an independent state, then I am absolutely convinced that there will be a majority in this Parliament who will, of course, suspend a revision of the Basic Law if that wish were to come on the table. Do I want it to come and will I actively work for it to happen? No, because I do not want that to happen, but of course I will respect it if that is what a majority in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125227	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Karsten Hønge, rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125241	In a couple of weeks, we can celebrate a 10-year anniversary. The Arctic coastal countries met at the end of May 2008 and agreed on the Ilulissat Declaration. That process shows how far we can reach together with trust in each other in the Kingdom community and so it has to be. Today, in the debate, we have again had the image of the fact that it is a marriage that we are in the Commonwealth, but at the same time it gives some rather difficult associations. I actually think more of the Kingdom community as a community of living, where three nations and people live in different houses gathered around some common areas. We keep both buildings and common areas together. We have different tasks and we have different roles, but everything is equally important. And yes, the buildings need renovation and modernisation, but because it rains through the roof in a few places, I do not think there is any reason to lay up to tear down the buildings. The SF supports the Commonwealth, where everyone has respect for each other and where diversity is a strength and not a problem, i.e. a community of equals who actively choose each other for. The community means that in many ways in all the houses there is something higher to the ceiling than if we just lived separately. I fully understand and respect the desire for independence in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. And on the road to independence, perhaps all of us could be better able to talk about the benefits of the Kingdom community. I think there is a need for a new dialogue. I think we should work for a redefinition of the kingdom community. And there we all have to be flexible and dynamic and hand-stuck rather than hold on to each other instead of using them to push us apart. Perhaps it could be drawing up a new document for the community, a kind of identity paper that could become a stepping stone to independence. On the other hand, I must also say that narrow-minded nationalism is stupid, no matter where and how it puts its head forward. In the Faroe Islands, there is reason to rejoice at the fact that the economy is in progress. I would then like to see a little more of the economy being used for a slightly fairer tax policy and, in general, a policy that could lift the people who are at the bottom of Faroese society. There are bright points in Greenland's business and economy, but at the same time there are almost incalculable both economic and social challenges. In fact, I think we are discussing too little that Greenland is steadily moving towards an economic concrete wall. At the same time, Greenland's society faces dramatic social challenges every day, with children growing up under totally unacceptable conditions and with far too few young people in Greenland getting an education. In fact, while that happens, I think that a disproportionate proportion of the time and energy goes on discussing other themes, for example. the speed of the movement towards independence. As a socialist, I would call for greater attention to be paid to inequality, to class society, to social tragedies and, above all, to the need for everyone to be educated in Greenland. When you face such a massive challenge that only half of the Greenlandic population has an education beyond primary school level, and half of the students drop out of high school, I find it difficult to find actions that will be more effective leg buckles and shoulder tackles against the future Greenlandic youth who will have education than the downgrade of Danish in school. I am sure that if it succeeds, it will be felt just like leg buckles and a hard shoulder pickling. I have to say that I am rather more concerned with the reality that every day means so much to young people without education, to children at risk and to young people and to the hard-working wage worker who has to live under an inequality in the icy Greenlandic class society. For SF, one plus one plus one is not three, but more like four or five, if that's how we translate the community into an equation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125759	Then the rapporteur was finished. There are questions from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125802	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. It may be that the rapporteur will have the opportunity to elaborate on the last points on these issues. I would like to say that I share the rapporteur's concern about the social and educational inequality that exists in Greenland, and this is, of course, an issue on which Inatsisartut must be quite concerned. I think that these considerations are quite interesting in terms of how we can redefine how we can rethink the Kingdom community. This is not necessarily because we have a lot of focus on the legal framework, but because we are also looking at something quite concrete. In relation to my colleague, who also comes from Greenland, I would say that I think that at some point we also have to draw a line in the sand and say that yes, there are some historical things that are not right, and there is no doubt that forward-looking we should also look at what we can do to prevent some unfortunate cases, how we can ensure that we are much more involved. But I think it is important also to look forward and not constantly look back on history when we talk about the kingdom community in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525125908	But I would like to give Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen quite right from the perspective that it is important that we look forward to what we want with the Kingdom Community. It is obvious that if a massive desire arises in Greenland for independence, that is the way to help Greenlandic society out, but as a socialist I would like to point out the dramatic consequences it will have for the people who are at the bottom of society. I therefore believe that we have so many common interests and so much pleasure that we in Denmark can offer Greenlandic young people education in Denmark, not only by being free, but also by making it considerably easier for Greenlandic young people to enter the Danish universities than it is for Danish young people, and in other ways reaching out to help. On the other hand, the association with Greenland and the Faroe Islands gives Denmark so many other advantages, especially on the international political scene.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525130011	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525130019	Thank you very much. In relation to the social, economic and educational inequality that exists in Greenlandic society, it is greater than it is in the United States. In connection with the elections, I had to look at the economic statistics and I can see that we are spending 3 billion. kr. in the social field. 3 billion kr.! I think it's really, really much money. It is also interesting to put it in relation to the block subsidy. It is not because I think that this money will then be spent in the social field, but part of it will certainly be spent in the social field, and therefore I can be concerned about an premature, unprepared process of autonomy, because it will be those who are most vulnerable, who are also most vulnerable to this change in society, which will happen if we do not have block grants.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525130058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525130103	Well this confirms the parallel thinking that SF and Inuit Ataqatigiit have on this, namely that we must look at what is the basis for today, who we want to help today, and it is the many young people who do not get an education, it is the hard-working, low-paid wage worker who must experience themselves at the bottom of Greenlandic society. The social challenge, the educational challenge, can be dealt with if we do so together, and in this context it is just that if you think in any way that it can be anything other than being leg-hold and shoulder-tacking to deprive you of the opportunity to actually take an education by downsetting Danish, then you go the wrong way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525130141	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525130154	Thank you for the floor. I'm always looking forward to these debates about the Kingdom Community, which I think is one of the most important issues at all in the Folketing and in Denmark and of course also in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good statement, in which we fully agree with the views expressed by the Prime Minister. It is important that we constantly develop and improve the Kingdom community. It is a strong and good and not least, I think, a permanent construction. I do not want to talk about the dissolution of the Kingdom community one day, because I am much more concerned with developing and improving our community than with dissolving it. As the largest country, Denmark, of course, has a great responsibility to ensure a well-functioning Kingdom Community, but I think there is much that we in Denmark can do better. I think it is very important that the level of knowledge in the Danish population is raised so that Greenlanders and Faroese people who come to Denmark are not met by great ignorance about their countries. This helps to create a feeling that you do not belong together if you are met by Danes not knowing anything about the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Therefore, it is important that there is more information, and there I still think that, both when it comes to Denmark's Radio and when it comes to our primary school, there is a need for more information about Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I also think that the Danish Government is doing well in relation to the Kingdom Community, and I also think that there are opportunities to continue to develop even more cooperation on business and education, and I also think that we in the Danish Parliament have the opportunity or at least should try to involve the North Atlantic MPs even more in the work. In relation to the Faroe Islands, we want to respect the responsibilities of the Faroe Islands community and the constitution, and here I am aiming at the constitutional work, where I think it is extremely important that we avoid accidental conflicts by driving the Faroe Islands along a path which may be incompatible with the constitution. We therefore call for the Latting to be in close dialogue with the Danish Government so as to avoid accidental conflicts between the Faroese intentions and the Danish constitution. There is a great deal that can be done within the framework of the Constitution, and I think there is a very, very long tradition that we make things work within the framework of the Constitution. That is why I think there must also be a common interest in avoiding breach of the Constitution. If you want to break the constitution, at least I think it should be on purpose, and not because you are going to do it unwittingly, because you have not had a good enough dialogue on how to interpret the constitution in Denmark and how to interpret the constitution in the Faroe Islands. That is why I think this dialogue is very crucial, so that the constitutional work takes place as a cooperation between Denmark and the Faroe Islands, because I believe that this can help prevent too many conflicts from occurring in this context. There is a huge difference between Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and perhaps there is a slight tendency on the Danish side that we talk a lot about Greenland and the Faroe Islands together, but these are two very different countries with two very, very different sets of challenges. In relation to Greenland, of course, we have the same desire in relation to the constitutional work. In addition, I also have to say that we believe that Greenland will make a fatal mistake if you start replacing Danish with English in the school system. It is poison to the Kingdom, and it is a huge self-sense on the part of Greenland. Denmark is Greenland's main and largest partner in every way, and it is not wise to cut off communication with its main partner. It is very difficult to imagine anything other than that it makes cooperation more difficult and worse. It will be a huge problem for Greenlandic young people if they can no longer, in reality and in practice, be educated in Denmark because they cannot speak Danish. It will lower the level of education and it may lower it very much, and it will be a huge problem for Greenland. In fact, I would venture to claim that it can bring independence further away, because the most important prerequisite for independence, if that is what you want, is that Greenland has a proper economy, and you cannot have that if you do not have a well-trained population. So in reality, if you are a glowing supporter of the Kingdom community, as I am, you could stand and rejoice that by doing so Greenland brings itself back a long way and will continue to be financially dependent on Denmark because you do not have a decent and well-trained population. But I do not have that joy, because we do not want a community of kingdoms based on the fact that things are going badly in Greenland. We want good decisions to be made in Greenland, we want a strong economy, we want progress, we want Greenland to splinter and do well, but that will not be the case if we do not make sure that we have a well-trained population, and the prerequisite for this is that we do not cut off all the education that we can get in Denmark. You can of course have a thought that you can build a lot of education yourself in Greenland, and of course you can do that to a certain extent, but the population and spread across this huge country is such that it is difficult to imagine that you can have all kinds of education in Greenland. Realistically, in the years to come many Greenlanders will also need to travel out of Greenland to train themselves, and it is only more obvious that you go where you can get the courses free of charge, instead of imposing the great burden on yourself that you then have to go to them elsewhere, because in practice you cannot use the courses in Denmark. So I think it is a huge self-target, and I think it would be bad for the Kingdom community, it would be bad for Greenland, so there is hardly anything positive to say about that step, and I hope that it will be reconsidered. I would call on the self-government of Greenland to concentrate on getting Greenland on its feet, concentrating on the major economic challenges that are, adjusting expenditure and income, getting business going, and I hope that they will do so together with Denmark. There is nothing we would rather than help Greenland make economic progress. I think there are enough challenges. Of course, there are always three countries, and of course there are plenty of things to do as a politician, but we look forward to it, and we hope that Denmark as the largest country in the community can of course contribute something, but we also hope that Greenland and the Faroe Islands can see themselves in the course that is being set and that you do not feel that Denmark is going to dominate it all, because at least we have no intention at all of that, and I hope that in Greenland and the Faroe Islands you are aware that when some of us burn so much to preserve the kingdom community, it is because we like Greenland and the Faroe Islands. If we didn't like Greenland and the Faroe Islands, there was nothing we would rather than just dissolve the Kingdom Community. So you have to know that it is not a desire to do something negative with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, it is because we love you so much that we want to preserve our community.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525130954	There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131000	Thank you for the rapporteur's praise and concern for Greenlandic society and our path towards independence. The rapporteur uses the words to develop and strengthen and improve the Kingdom community, and he gives some examples of DR's lack of programmes on Greenlandic conditions and today's kingdom community or Greenland and the like. In addition to the lack of knowledge in the Danish population about the general conditions in Greenland, how does the rapporteur think that we can develop and strengthen and improve the kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131042	I think I mentioned some of that. I believe that in the field of education and industry there must always be a close dialogue and a close exchange of ideas, so that Greenland can always see that they can use Denmark and the offers that are being part of the Kingdom community. So it is important that there is good access to education. There we have a dialogue at the moment about Danish teaching in Greenland, which I think is very, very important. It is important that there is always business cooperation, so that together you develop the great opportunities that are in Greenland, with the huge geography and the resources that are up there. And as I said, it is important that Greenland is involved at all levels from here in the Danish Parliament and also to the daily cooperation with the Danish authorities, so that the service you get from Denmark is always as good as possible. I also think that there are many examples of how far we have come, including here recently, where I am, among others. It seems that in the defence settlement we had some small steps taken which made it a little easier for Greenlanders to get into the Danish defence. I think it is important that we constantly take such steps to include Greenlanders more in everything that is in the Kingdom Community and in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131200	As far as the Danish language is concerned, I have noticed that the Danish language fills really, very much in the Danish community debate, and everyone is so sad that Danish no longer becomes our first foreign language. I can understand that concern. I'd probably be worried too if I was Danish or came from down here. I would also be concerned that language would be downgraded. But the Kingdom is so much more than the Danish language. I myself come from the northern part of Greenland, where Danish takes up very, very little. You very often need a translator to be able to have any contact with the Greenlandic people up there. So the Danish language has already filled very little with many people in Greenland. It fills a lot with some of those who no longer speak the Greenlandic language. So Danish fills in different degrees in Greenland. I just want to say that I have great respect for Conservatives' attitude to the Greenlandic language in Greenland, and I respect the attitude you have as much as I expect respect for the decisions we make about the language in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131312	Well, thank you for that, and the respect is completely mutual in every way. I have a huge respect for Greenland and the intentions you have up there. But I also think that we have a duty here to say that we are making a huge mistake. Of course it is true that the Kingdom is more than the language, but the language is indeed central. The fact that we are here speaking in Danish, which Mrs Aleqa Hammond masters to perfection, is an expression of the fact that it makes it easier to have a good kingdom community because we can talk. We wouldn't be able to talk as well in English. My English is not as good as my Danish, and I cannot express myself as precisely. And I would be surprised if Mrs Aleqa Hammond spoke English at as high a level as she speaks Danish. I'd be very impressed, I have to say. So it is just that having a language in which one can express oneself very precisely and exchange views where there are no misunderstandings and where one does not say something that is not quite precise is simply insanely important for one to have good cooperation. And then it is here with education really, really important, i.e. that Greenlandic youth can get some proper education. Otherwise, you will not move forward as a country.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131420	The next question is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131425	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for a very committed and almost empty speech, which was completely without the fear of touch, which was particularly characteristic of these debates a few years ago. I very much appreciate the fact that things are being said straight out, including the fact that the criticism comes straight out. After all, the rapporteur said that the constitutional process in the Faroe Islands must avoid conflicts with the constitution. However, I can inform you that the proposal has been sent to the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Justice for consultation and that they have given up their thumbs. It just keeps going, they said. However, I believe that this has been done because it is recognised that if we allow the Kingdom community into a legal framework, a legal cage, as the constitution is, we will dismantle it and then it will go wrong. If you read the Danish constitution, you cannot see the Kingdom community. The Constitution describes a unitary state with one parliament, one government, one foreign policy, etc. It does not describe the Kingdom community at all. The reason why the Kingdom Community has become the great success, as it has been, is precisely that it has been said that when there is a need, when there is a desire, when we need to develop our international competences, etc., we can just do so, and then it is interpreted in a way that makes it fit in, even if objectively it does not fit in at all. So I would warn against going in the direction of saying that the constitution must be respected. Because if it is to be fully respected, the Faroese Parliament must be run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131554	I fully agree that we can do a great deal within the framework of the Constitution and that we have achieved an enormous amount within the framework of the Constitution. The Faroe Islands have already achieved a great deal of autonomy and self-determination. I hardly think it is possible to see what the Faroe Islands are actually being held back today, that is, what it is that you would be able to do more if you were to break off completely in relation to what you can do today. You can do almost anything and do almost everything. And with great success for the Faroe Islands. That is why I do not think there are very many clinging ties left, nor do we have any intention of being there at all. We have a desire that the Faroe Islands can cultivate their identity and wishes as much as you almost want. And I see no contradiction at all between being a glowing Faroese nationalist and being part of a kingdom community, for you have your amazingly strong identity and culture, etc., which you can cultivate completely as you like. We don't interfere very much in everyday life in the Faroe Islands. The point here is that it is very difficult on the Danish side to change the constitution. It's an incredibly heavy process. If you come out and demand something and say that now it has to be different in the constitution, and we have to have standing, that you are an independent country, etc., then it is not something we just do. That is just why I think this dialogue is so important, so that we do not get into a conflict where we do something which is obviously contrary to the constitution. Too much can be done, but I do not think that anything can be done. And there's a framework within the Constitution, otherwise we didn't have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131726	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131731	Thank you for that and thank you for your comment. There came a book the other day called "Our Unconstitutional Home Rule Schemes," which objectively describes that it is simply not possible to say that the Basic Law describes the Kingdom Community. Can I not get the rapporteur to acknowledge that when the Constitution says that there is one Parliament where there are three, there is no agreement between it? One and three aren't the same thing. When the Constitution says that only one authority is allowed to collect taxes, i.e. the Folketing, because this can only be done by legislation in the Folketing, and in the Faroe Islands taxes are levied on the basis of the Laws of the Lagting, it is not the same as in the Constitution. Can I not get the rapporteur to acknowledge that fact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131811	I can't quite acknowledge that, I'm sorry. It is the case that the arrangements, the laws that apply to Greenland and the Faroe Islands in relation to autonomy, are laws adopted by the Folketing. So it's the fact that the Folketing has delegated that you can do all these things. In practice it makes no difference at all, and nobody imagines changing it. But formally it is the case that here in the Danish Parliament they have decided that they can drive a very, very independent line in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and they do so with great success. I do not think this is contrary to the constitution, but of course it is very, very creative, and in this way one has really made the constitution work in a way which one probably did not imagine originally, but which I do not think can be said to be contrary to the constitution. In fact, it is a prerequisite for keeping the Kingdom community together, because if we had not done so, I am quite sure that the independence movements on both Greenland and the Faroe Islands had been much stronger; then I think you had been gone a long time ago; then there would be no kingdom community. It needs to work in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131917	The next question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525131920	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. It is almost quite touching to hear a conservative be so changeable when you talk about a kingdom community. You're talking about developing and improving a kingdom community, and I'm definitely gonna stop you from doing that. Then, in relation to the Danish media, I would say that I do not quite share the black view that there has been no development, because I think that there has been a slight development. It is true that all the parties are represented today, and everyone has, in this way, said that it is very interesting about the Kingdom community, and I think it would be very interesting to see it reflected in various debates, for example. The media settlement, where it is quite obvious that you use your political influence to ensure that there is also a focus on Greenland. Denmark's Radio has among other things. made • Secrets from Nuuk • • Greenlandic Home Dreams and • Hammerslag in Greenland • and I think these are some very good examples of a more nuanced picture of Greenland that is needed in the Danish media and in the Danish society. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: what is it that not only the rapporteur's party but also the other parties can do to help put Greenland on the agenda, it can be said, not only when we talk about the Kingdom and Greenland, but also when we discuss all sorts of other issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132038	I think it is so positive that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen would like to have influence here in the Folketing and would like to be part of several agreements which are important for Greenland, for example. a media reconciliation. And I would like to call on the government to try to see if there is a possibility of including both Greenlandic and Faroese members of parliament in several agreements. Because I think it is perfectly legitimate to want to do so. Yes, it is not just legitimate, that is how it should be, that you seek influence here in the Danish Parliament, instead of just retreating and saying that the Danes must decide everything, and that all contact between Denmark and Greenland and the Faroe Islands must then go between self-government and the Latting. It is intended that when you are in the Folketing, you have to be involved in political agreements, and I would urge you to do so more.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132132	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132134	Thank you for the call that is made to the government, as I hear it. In relation to the language issue, which has been mentioned several times today, I would like to say that I look at it rather soberly. I think it is extremely important that when you make some decisions, you also know the consequences, and what I may be worried about, if you want to replace Danish with English as the first foreign language in Greenland is that access to education in Greenland may be impaired. We know that you can take a few English courses in Denmark, but reading medicine, reading law, reading psychology or some other subjects cannot be done in English, and if we look at the skills needs in Greenland, we can see that we also need lawyers, that we also need doctors, and that we also need psychologists and people with other courses that you cannot read in English in Denmark. So that's really where my concern is. And yes, it is a decision that must be taken in Greenland, but I think it is important that it is part of the overall discussion that we know all the consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132247	I can't agree more. I think it is so obvious that there are so many educational opportunities in Denmark that you cannot build up in Greenland, simply because the number of young people to be trained is not large enough to imagine that you have all types of education in Greenland. It simply cannot be done. Then one would sit every two years and be trained in some of the small subjects. It is not possible, and therefore it will be the case that you have to go away from Greenland to get a wide range of courses. It is simply a given thing, and that will be the case in the future unless Greenland tenfolds its population, and I do not think that one should wish for that. Then you can either get it in Denmark, or you can get it in other countries. The advantage of getting it in Denmark is that you get it for free. And it should not be imagined that the United States is suddenly starting to offer free education to the Greenlanders. Why would they do that? It is only in Denmark that you can have it. And then you say no to the huge advantage that you have there by stopping training the Greenlanders in Danish so that they can come down here and get an education. It is a huge self-interest and I simply cannot understand that it will be done. I think it is tragic for Greenland's future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132356	The next question is Mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132401	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank you for a very committed speech, which Mr. Rasmus Jarlov very often argues when it comes to the kingdom community and the countries up in the Nordic countries. I was a little confused by this debate between Sjúrður Skaale and Rasmus Jarlov. Because I do not really understand what the position is on this, or what you really want to warn against in relation to the Faroese Constitution, which has already been in consultation. Rasmus Jarlov answers a question where he says that there has of course been a creativity to hold the kingdom together in relation to the Constitution, when you have created the Home Rule Act, and when you have made some concessions at a later stage. What is it that we are so afraid of now if we are still continuing with a creativity that is necessary to create the necessary rubber band? That's one thing. The other thing is about delegation. I have seen that the delegation delegated to Faroese society is irreversible, but not necessarily the last stop on the road to independence. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132515	Well, what I may be afraid of is that suddenly something will appear in the Faroese constitution, which one has to say on the Danish side does not fit in with our constitution. And I can't say what it could be, because I haven't been so much involved in this constitutional work. But all I know is that when it comes to the form of government in the Kingdom, there are some things in the constitution. Well, I would like to give an example of an unthinkable example, but that is also very good, because then we will not be discussing it so much, it is more the principle. If you were to write into the constitution that you, for example, were to write into the constitution. would have a president instead of a majesty, it would not be compatible with our constitution. And then you would create a conflict with Denmark. And if you wanted to feel that way, we would have to have referendums and a huge majority in the Folketing, etc. to change it, and it's just not something we can do. And then you'll have a conflict with the Constitution. This is a very extreme example, which I imagine is quite unthinkable. I just hope that we can avoid this kind of conflict... so that there is something that is contrary to the Constitution... and that we get something done that fits in with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132635	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132644	Well, one has been reasonably capable of accepting various measures which have been outside the framework of the Constitution in advance, I should just like to say hello. I don't believe you're gonna call it back again. That's one thing. But let me move on to the next question concerning defence and security policy. I understand that the rapporteur is also chairman of the Defence Committee and has always animated that the Faroe Islands and Greenland participate more in this area. And I also share the view that we very much need to have a much greater insight into, and also influence, both defence and security policy relating to the Faroe Islands. Maybe Rasmus Jarlov can do a little digging on that? How does he see that this could happen in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132724	Yeah, I think that's very important. This is incredibly important when the Commonwealth fleet, for example. patrols in Faroese waters that you don't see it as such a foreign Danish force that sails around and dominates, but that you know that there are actually lots of Faroes on board, so it's a community. I think this is extremely important for the feeling about the Kingdom community and the understanding that it is not the case that there are Danes who are in charge of the Faroe Islands. It is the case that the Faroe Islands have some areas that are entirely carried out for themselves, and then there are some common tasks, including defence. The defence is not a Danish task, it is a joint task. And there I think it is incredibly important that we recruit better for the Danish defense, so there are more cousins who come in and participate in the defense. There is no military service in the Faroe Islands, and this is, of course, a bit of a disadvantage compared to getting more people into the defense. Because that's the way a lot of Danes get into it in the first place. So that's where you're put back from the beginning. But in relation to being a member of the Navy, for example, there is so much interest and competence maritimely in the Faroe Islands. So I think it's very obvious to get some more in, and I would really like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132839	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525132844	Now I understand that it is not military service that brings Danish young people into the defence. It's basically volunteers who volunteer. It is rare to actually use military service. That is why you can't care if there's military service in the Faroe Islands. They have the opportunity to volunteer if they want to. No, what I want to ask you is this language thing. I do not understand why we, as Danes, should have an advantage when we work with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, because we insist that we will be able to understand it in the smallest detail as regards the nuances of our language. If the other two sides said that they would be able to do so, and insisted that we should speak Greenlandic every time we met in the Kingdom, that would be just as logical. Or in Nordic co-operation, the Finns could insist that everyone speak Finnish. There we use an interpreter as an intermediary, and then we talk Scandinavian with Norway and Sweden. That is where we compromise. We have universities in Denmark where you don't speak English only, from you come, to you go, to the free quarters and to the parties and everywhere, because it's English universities, and because we know that if those people are going to have a career in certain areas, they have a huge advantage of being really, really good at English, while they have their mother tongue. What is the reason why such logical things as we have incorporated into our
ParlaMint-DK_20180525133015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525133018	It is in principle a theoretically correct consideration that we could of course just as well speak Faroese or Greenlandic when we are here in Parliament. It's just not so realistic in practice. I would also like to be able to speak Faroese or Greenlandic; unfortunately I cannot, and I regret that. But I do not think it is so realistic that we are going to turn to using it as a language of communication. Of course, there's an asymmetry in that 98 percent. by the people of the Danish community speak Danish in advance, and then teach the last 2%. Say the language so we can talk. I can understand that, of course, if you think it's too bad, but that's probably the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525133109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525133113	That is not really what the question was about. It was that it is natural that they try to choose a language that can be used right, very many places in the world. And if you want it, for example... an academic education or out into the world and work, it is in most cases a greater advantage to know English than to know Danish. We have to admit that. This is not a world language we have here in our little kingdom. That is why I think it is logical, if you look at the development of business in this way, at the career of the individual, etc., to choose a language that can be applied internationally unless you expect the Greenlanders to stay home in Greenland. After all, we do not all have the same view as the Danish People's Party, namely that it is best just to stay at home as in the 1880s. We have to say that we live in an international society and there is English much more visible than Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525133206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525133209	It is quite wrong to say that you have better opportunities to get an academic education if you cannot speak Danish, because you get an academic education free of charge in Denmark. And if you're going to take it in the United States or England instead, because that's where you can speak the language, you don't get academic education at the same level for less than DKK 100,000. a year. Then you're gonna have to go out and put 1⁄2 million. kr. minimum, for you to get an academic education where you can today get a free one. I find it very difficult to see that it should make it possible for more people to receive an academic education.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525133238	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525133249	Thank you very much. Soon the parliamentary year 2017-18 will be pouring out. Seen with Greenlandic glasses, the parliamentary year has been marked by the election in Greenland. Independence was not only a theme in the election campaign, but was a debate that actually marked the whole parliamentary year. When we are to go to elections to the Folketing in one year at the latest, it has been 10 years since we were granted autonomy in Greenland. In 2009, we reclaimed the raw material area and the working environment offshore, but since then, Naala Suisut has not taken responsibility for several areas. Naalakkersuisut noted shortly before the elections to Inatsisartut that no plan has been drawn up for the repatriation of the 32 areas which Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland or jointly if that formulation is to be used. Inuit Ataqatigiit believes that independence must not be rushed or without us being well prepared. This is important for the sake of the citizens. We see that in the short run work is being done to find more positive examples of how we can strengthen the Kingdom community. There is a need for new and positive stories as long as we are a community because, alternatively, the urge for an unprepared and hasty process of independence will increase. It is well known that there are wage differences among government employees in Denmark and Greenland respectively. The state often refers to the fact that it is in order not to be a wage leader in Greenland. However, the result is real discrimination, which is difficult for the government to defend. For example, it is difficult to explain away that Greenlandic and Danish police colleagues who, side by side, do the same work and have a similar training do not receive the same salary. It becomes even clearer when hard-tested asylum officers in Greenland receive a basic salary of 5,000 DKK. less per month than the salary of their Danish colleagues. And state employees are forced to obtain housing security from Greenlandic society in order to afford to pay their rent. We simply cannot ignore this unreasonableness. For example, in the Nuuk asylum, there is. 17 staff to 29 assigned posts. Here we must remember that the institution houses hard criminals and that the asylum officers, like the Danish prison officers, carry out a core task that leads to a more secure and secure society. In Greenland, the perilous crime is three or four times as high as in Denmark, and 40%. of the inmates in the asylums have been placed outside the home as children. In the asylums we have social workers and employment consultants, but unfortunately that is not enough. The conditions and opportunities for the inmates in the Nuuk asylum are therefore by no means comparable to those for the inmates in Danish prisons. This is relevant in relation to the asylum officers and their pay and working conditions. As we know, the new facility in Nuuk is being built. It also contains a closed section, and here the 17 employees in the Nuuk asylum will be involved in taking care of prisoners. It is important that we ensure upgrading, new training measures and, above all, initiatives to maintain qualified and experienced staff. If we look at the new facility, there's a rating of 65 employees. As things stand right now, this means quite specifically that three-quarters of the staff in the future institution are expected to be either in training, unskilled or called in labour from Denmark or elsewhere. A new institution is needed in Greenland. There is no doubt about that at all. But when we now choose to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on the physical environment but do not have the necessary human resources in place, it is an expression of a lack of due diligence purely politically. A working group to look at the wage differences for government officials in the area of justice has been set up and it is expected that they will finish their work later this year. The Minister of Justice has refused to meet Inuit Ataqatigiit's representative in the Danish Parliament, on the grounds that this working group needs to work quietly. It is worrying when we know that the institution opens in 2019 and that there is not enough power to carry out the big task that it is to ensure a well-functioning institution. It will take years to rectify this and it will take years to ensure that all posts are filled with qualified labour. Inuit Ataqatigiit will therefore strongly urge the government to give priority to an early solution to the discrimination in terms of education and pay in the area of justice. If we look at a whole other area, that of culture, we can say that culture helps to build bridges. People who want each other also help build bridges, and the greatest threat to the community is indifference. It's almost more harmful than hate when we show indifference to each other. If we do not want each other enough in the Kingdom community, the basis of our community is under threat, and the reason why I mention it is not because it is an expression of indifference on my part or on the part of Inuit Ataqatigiits, but it is because it is an expression of real concern. Fortunately, I find that when good concrete projects such as the Nukiga cultural and business project, which in Greenlandic means my strength, are well underway, it helps build bridges. At a recent Danish tour in four cities up to six Greenlandic bands held a concert in each city, and it was a great pleasure to see the many Greenlanders who participated and the many Danes who were curious about Greenlandic music. This is positive for both the Greenlandic artists who promoted Greenlandic music in the finest way, but we also know that cultural understanding of Greenland among Danes is an important matter to work for, both here in the Danish Parliament, but also for us in Inuit Ataqatigiit. That is why we are also very pleased that Nukiga is coming out at national level, and I think that there is still a great deal of work to do to ensure that the work bears fruit, and that we see more of such fine events, both for the benefit and for the benefit of both Danish and Greenlandic citizens in Denmark. Another very good initiative is Operation Daywork, which on 7 November this year the country around will help to ensure that Danish young people gain more knowledge about Greenland. They will help to collect money for new teaching material on modern Greenlandic society. In addition, the government has taken an initiative for a historical knowledge gathering about Danish young people's knowledge of Greenland. I think that all of these examples help to give a new picture, of which we need a lot more. In the media conciliation that applied up to this year and is being renewed, Inuit Ataqatigiit has contributed to Denmark's Radio strengthening its efforts in relation to the coverage of Greenlandic and Faroese conditions, among others. there are different lifestyle programs • something that I have mentioned earlier in a question to another rapporteur • where focus is on modern life in Greenland, something that helps to give a more nuanced picture of Greenlandic society. We have also seen that there has been wider coverage in the Danish media of the recent Greenlandic election, and it is positive that Denmark's Radio complies with the requirements already contained in the media commitment and that there is the focus of the Danish media on the Greenlandic election. The focus of recent years on Greenlandic relations has left behind an impression that has created a greater knowledge, a greater understanding among ordinary Danes for Greenlandic culture and society. All of this helps to build bridges and to make it difficult not to be optimistic when it comes to getting more knowledge about Greenland in Danish society. Inuit Ataqatigiit wants to do its part to strengthen the positive trend and to continue so that we can overcome unnecessary prejudices about Greenland and Greenlanders. We want to help ensure that there are more new and positive stories, we want to look forward, and we believe that this will be a very strong need in the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134240	There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134246	Thank you very much. For a long time, the rapporteur has been working with, among other things: in Greenland and also exposed Greenlanders here in Denmark, and the rapporteur should be very, very praised for this, also for continuing the work after the rapporteur has arrived in the Folketing. Unfortunately, one of the common denominators of the challenges is often the poor knowledge of the Danish language. We have mentioned earlier in the debate that up to half of Greenlandic high school students fall out of high school, among other things. because of poor Danish knowledge. There was an article not long ago from DR, where we heard the student council president at the North Greenland High School in Aasiaat say: "If we put English as a first foreign language, then it becomes even more a problem for the students. We're gonna get pinched. ▪ So, here you hear a student council chairman warning against downgrading Danish. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134346	I think it is important that this discussion should take place primarily in Greenland. I think we can express some opinions here, and I would very much like to have the opportunity to do so. As I said, I think it is paradoxical that we are so concerned about what is going on in Greenland in relation to the language when we ourselves do not sweep at our own door. This is actually where I am thinking of ensuring that we do not impair access to Danish education for the Greenlanders who choose to settle here in Denmark. It is, of course, a task that we can do something about here in the Folketing. I am very pleased that it looks as if there is a majority in favour of ensuring that we do not get Greenlanders on an equal footing with foreigners, because I think that is a very unfortunate signal to send out. I think it's important to get that first. In relation to exactly what the language should be, I think there should be a political debate and I think it should be in Greenland. And I think it is important not to ignore the professional working group, which has, as such, been set up and which has made their recommendations just before the elections, and which expresses a concern that I think needs to be addressed if it is that English should be the first foreign language instead of Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134455	I still think that this is a debate that we should and can afford to have here in Denmark, not least for the sake of the many Greenlanders who move from Greenland to Denmark and who would, of course, be much stronger in the labour market if they were better at Danish. So it is also very much an issue that affects us here in Denmark. What you are hearing from the North Greenland High School is that they believe that for Greenlandic politicians the whole political debate on independence outweighs the education of Greenlandic youth. Will the rapporteur go back to his party, IA, and try to promote that Danish remains the top priority in terms of languages as one of the two mother tongues of Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134545	Thank you very much. I am therefore very confident that my party will help to ensure that the political positions that we have, and which I also have, are represented in the debate we have. After all, I have an ongoing debate with the group at home, which I call the Inatsisartut Group, where we also have such discussions on political matters. So it's something that gets picked up regularly.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134608	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134612	Thank you for that and thank you for the presentation. The rapporteur mentioned earlier today that 10 million have been set aside. kr. for exposed children in Greenland. Firstly, I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks the money should be used for. Secondly, I would like to know whether this can solve the serious problems that emerged from the report made a few years ago, precisely on the very serious conditions of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134641	Thank you very much. The money was set aside in the pool negotiations in 2016, and, as far as I understand, the period is running out if it has not already expired. The money has been spent on the Danish Social Protection Agency's efforts here in Denmark, where they have then collaborated with the Danish Social Protection Agency in Greenland. After all, this has resulted in a report which has a large number of recommendations. That is also why I think it is important for the Greenland Committee to take this up because it is not done with a report or with a number of recommendations. We need to listen to those recommendations, and we need to see whether there is a need for us to follow up on those recommendations. But it is of course in Greenland that you have to play a part in complying with the efforts and strengthening efforts for children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134725	I have the view and there I agree that a report is not enough. It is the recommendations that need to be implemented in order to bring about real changes for children. Therefore, it is important that we say that okay, it also costs some money, and it especially costs a human effort in Greenland • Perhaps also with help from Denmark. There is another question which has been raised today and which has not really been answered. After all, I see IA as a left-wing Greenlandic party with some socialist values. In other words, this is the question of the great inequality in Greenlandic society. What are your ideas about reducing inequality and creating a more equal society?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134810	Thank you very much. I myself made a proposal when I was sitting in Inatsisartut, which was just about a poverty limit and then an action plan in relation to the poverty that exists in Greenland. This has resulted in a report of poverty, but it is the case in Greenland that when there is a choice, the whole table will be cleared, you might say, in relation to the political issues that have just been raised. But it's my great hope that there are some who keep focusing on this inequality, because it's really an area that I think is important. This is also reflected in, for example, the situation in the United Kingdom. the area of justice which Denmark is responsible for in Greenland. This is also reflected in the field of education and in a wide range of other areas. It may be a little too complex to roll out all the things and actions that I think are needed, but I think education is a really good place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134903	The next question is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525134910	Thank you. I would like to come back to this with Danish and English, and to what extent Danish should not be one of the mother tongues. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that there is and should be some communication between Denmark and Greenland? I am not just thinking of regular communication with a country that sends 3.8 billion. kr. every year to Greenland plus the loose. Can the rapporteur not see that it might give rise to a little difficulty in cooperation if one joins out of the Danish language, to use that expression now? And what is the rapporteur's view of the opportunities for young Greenlanders to be educated? Where are they gonna take it? I assume that it will continue to be in Denmark, but unfortunately I have to say that, as an absolute rule, we are teaching in Danish here in Denmark. Is there not a problem for the young Greenlanders in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135009	Thank you very much. I will start by answering the last question first. I think it is very important that we also understand that we have a great many Greenlanders who are also reading outside of Denmark today. Or we have a few people around who read outside of Denmark. I think that is also part of the overall picture. And that is something that Greenland pays for. Yes, it has some economic consequences if almost all or most of them have to read outside Denmark. We would, of course, like to maintain the good development that is in relation to ensuring an increase in the level of education among Greenlandic young people. So I believe that business development and ensuring an increasing level of education are absolutely central to Greenland's development and Greenland's future. Finally, I would like to say to this cooperation: I think that most people who are sitting in here know that I think that cooperation is always good and that it is very good to have a dialogue also about what is going to happen in the future and what consequences it will have. And as I said, it is important to know the full picture, also seen with Greenlandic glasses.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135124	In order to take it up with the training, I have to ask as directly as possible: does the rapporteur think it completely does not matter whether the young people can speak Danish? Can they get the same education somewhere else in the world? I believe that as a starting point we teach Danish in Denmark, so they cannot understand that. In most places in Denmark they will not be able to get an education. But where are they going to get an education when they cannot speak Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135149	I would like to say that my personal attitude also to keep me in this very direct personal track is that I think it is important that our young people also know Danish. I think so. I think language opens doors. So does Danish, and we need to be aware of that. Then there's these many personal relationships. As I have mentioned myself, I speak mainly Danish and understand very Greenlandic. I wish I was better at speaking Greenlandic. I speak as fluent English as I speak Danish. But yes, I think it is very good that you have the opportunity to speak Danish as well. Then I would like to say that I have been called for consultation on this very point, which I shall also take as a starting point from the debate that has been held here today. Finally, I would like to say that there is a teachers' association in Greenland, called IMAK, which has also expressed concern that it will take a very long time to adapt the entire teaching system to the fact that the teaching should primarily be focused on English.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135250	The next question is Mr. Henrik Brodersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135256	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and thank you for the fact that the rapporteur is also not afraid to talk about some of the challenges that Greenland has. This applies in particular to the children's area, which the rapporteur and I have talked about several times. There is a very regrettable development. Thank you for that effort, I would like to say to the rapporteur. Now the language has come to fill very much in this debate. Of course, it is not without reason. I think that we in the Folketing are obliged to have an opinion on whether Greenlanders should learn Danish or not, in relation to the level of education there is. Higher education is, after all, located in Denmark. I have to ask the rapporteur something. A group of experts has been set up with a professor from the University of Copenhagen in the lead. She goes so far as to call it both naive and stupid to drop the Danish language rather than the English language. Does the rapporteur have a position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135415	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, in relation to the children's area, I simply do so because I cannot help but say that I think that the area of children and young people is the most important area, also because it is important in terms of education and again in terms of whether we have qualified labour in the labour market. I mentioned this earlier with the fact that we're spending 3 billion. kr. in the social field. What I find worrying is that we do not see the results that we really want to see, that is, fewer people are subjected to sexual abuse and fewer people experience domestic neglect. Those figures together are extremely worrying, I think, in the context of Greenland. As far as language is concerned, I always think we should listen to those people who have a thorough knowledge of the various areas. I mentioned earlier the teaching association IMAK. I think they make some interesting observations which we need to take into account in the overall picture as politicians and as decision-makers and, as I said, also this group of experts. I find it worrying that Naala Suisut has ignored the recommendations made by this group of experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135528	Thank you. It is precisely with regard to social challenges, which I know the rapporteur is very concerned about, which is also confirmed here, that I think it is good that we have now come so far that we dare to talk about it and that we are also taking action to resolve it. The fact that things are going a little slower than you could hope for is a shame. But again about the language: Well, the good professor Anne Holmen says that there will certainly be somewhere between 15 and 20 years before you can remove the Danish language from the Greenlandic community and replace it with English. Is this something that the rapporteur's party in Greenland sees and will also work actively for, namely that it is taking this at the pace that, if I may say so, is needed, and not just implementing it, also in view of the fact that there are very many Greenlanders who speak only Danish? They will be so placed outside any connection with the nation whose language you do not then speak. That would be very weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135649	Thank you very much for the question. As the questioner also knows, there are typically a lot of different opinions, also on a question like this that people can have within a party. So this is, of course, a discussion that must be held at Inuit Ataqatigiit. I have expressed my own position and some of the concerns that I see there are, but I do not think there is such a clear conclusion on exactly what we should be doing. It has been mentioned in the past that all three languages should be learned, and nobody can disagree with that, but we also know that in practice it can be difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135725	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525135742	Thank you. Let me begin by thanking the Prime Minister for a thorough statement on the state of the Kingdom community as it stands right now. It is particularly good to see how many areas have made progress in the last year, both in cooperation between Denmark and Greenland and in relation to the Danish efforts in the areas that are purely Danish responsibility. Allow me to say that this is also the result of the work that we members of the North Atlantic Community are doing here in the Folketing, including through the committees in which we have obtained our seat. A debate like this should focus on the future and the areas where the Kingdom community can still be improved, and I am also very pleased that most parties that were up here talking about the Kingdom community all point out that there are areas that can definitely be improved. As you know, elections have been held in Greenland. The result is a Greenlandic government which continues to look towards independence. Unfortunately, this is often interpreted as being angry with the community, or at least the Danish state, but it has nothing to do with anger. It is simply a desire for the right to be master of our own house, which we share with the other free-minded people on earth, including the Danes in Denmark. It is not a wish for Denmark or for the Kingdom community, but it is aimed at ourselves. This is our dream and vision for the new Greenlandic government in which my party, Nunatta Qitornai, is now participating. In other words, we see a kingdom community in the future established by three free kingdoms, if that is what one wants out of pure joy and not out of need. When we in Greenland like our friends in the Faroe Islands therefore work on an independent constitution, it should not be seen as a process turned against the Kingdom community or Denmark, but as a process for Greenland. We need to create a change that has been made in our own country, based on our own culture and created by our own language. That is why this process is continuing unabated under the new government. At the same time, however, we want to strengthen and improve the cooperation that is taking place in the Kingdom community as it is now. It is also important to understand that while the Kingdom is functioning, it should also create full equality for all its citizens in the areas under Danish control. Therefore, the work to secure the many areas still being taken care of by Denmark in Greenland should continue and be reinforced. Therefore, areas such as the justice area in Greenland must be strengthened and brought fully into line with conditions as they are in Denmark, as they are in the government base. The new government in Greenland wants to take back the last areas under the Self-Government Act that have not yet been taken home. It is part of our desire for independence and a process that in itself will change the Kingdom community. But we also know very well that a bill is included. That is why we are looking clearly at the areas where our country can generate new independent income. We need to create framework conditions so that those companies that will eventually create our own self-sustaining economy and free Denmark from the burden of block subsidies can unfold. The area of the world in which we live and which Denmark is therefore part of today, the Arctic region, is changing in these years at a rapid pace. Where climate change in other places only causes problems, they actually bring new opportunities for us and huge opportunities. Where the ice disappears, an entirely new economic situation is opening up for the entire Arctic area; a change so extensive that international investors predict that in the next few years there will be investment in the Arctic region for more than one trillion dollars. New shipping routes will create the need for new ports and service facilities, new mines will create the need for international investment, and new airports will open up both trade and tourism to an extent that Greenland has not seen before. The part of the Kingdom community that we in Greenland today form will become a focal point in a development that is taking increasing speed. In this context, it would be good if, together with Denmark, we could create a new framework that both strengthens Greenland's desire to be able to maneuver in the new international reality and at the same time continue a close and constructive cooperation with Denmark. I have noticed that both prominent diplomats and defenders and politicians are now pointing to the need for a new construction of the community between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I welcome that. It would be a good thing for all of us if we could create that future together and in agreement. But before we get there, there are a number of things, both within the Kingdom Community and in Greenland itself, that need to be put in place. For this we need outside investors who can help us make our economy flourish and our workforce become more qualified than it is today. This applies both to raw materials and to infrastructure. Both places today we see an interest on the part of China, which we welcome. Unfortunately, the same does not happen on the Danish side, where since the iron mine plans at Nuuk there has been a constant negative mention of China's interest in Greenland, while Denmark itself would like to see Chinese investments in the Danish economy and work to attract them. This difference in the approach to China is not constructive for us. The Government believes that there may be foreign policy and security issues and issues if a Chinese company becomes involved in the airport constructions in Greenland. This message has been highlighted by the Prime Minister in an article in Politiken today. I find it unacceptable that Denmark wants to interfere in a construction bid in Greenland just because the contractor is Chinese. At no time has it dressed up for Denmark to act as a domination, even today. I must remind the government that Denmark has supported China's participation as an observer in the Arctic Council, thereby supporting China's interest in actively participating in the development of the Arctic. In addition, through the Invest in Denmark initiative, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has set up a working group to seek Chinese investment for Denmark. The question then is: does the government only want Chinese investment to Denmark? What about the rest of the Kingdom? Or does the government also want to invest in the rest of the Kingdom community? This week I sent my written questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Industry. Hopefully, I look forward to learning more about the so-called China problem, which I think is lacking in substance and arguments. The United States has clearly signalled that they will no longer pay us for their military investments in our country, and there has been no approach on their part to find new ways of supporting us. This is hardly happening under the current President either. That is why we need others who will help us on the way, and it would be constructive if we could work together in the Kingdom community on other solutions instead of scaring potential investors out of Greenland. I'll end where I started. The Prime Minister's statement shows that we have made a great deal of progress in cooperation in the Kingdom Community, both between our governments and between our ministers, research institutions and various governments. That's good, but it's not time to rest. The change in the Arctic is taking place at a rapid pace, and it will have a constant impact on the construction of the whole Kingdom community, both as it is now and on the development of the community in the future. So let us respect each other's desires, including those of changing the foundation of the Kingdom. Let us continue to discuss the content of the Kingdom community, possible change and the framework for our future cooperation, and let us work together to make it come true in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525140703	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525140707	I would say that I am a little puzzled by the rapporteur's approach to the Danish field. So, both in the media and here on the platform, the Prime Minister has said directly that he is raising his hand, so I do not quite understand the impression that the rapporteur has had of Denmark rejecting it. Can the rapporteur not come a little closer to that? And, as I said before, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on being committee chairman both in Greenland and in Denmark. So the rapporteur has a unique role to play in promoting cooperation. So if the rapporteur can first comment on it with the outstretched Danish hand I think the Prime Minister could not make it more clear and at the same time then discuss what the rapporteur himself will do to strengthen cooperation in the Kingdom community, not least in the field of business, I would like to ask for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525140754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525140755	I also noticed, when the Prime Minister made his statement here, that he said that he was ready to raise his hand for closer cooperation, including with regard to infrastructure. I look forward to hearing what he means when he comes up here on the platform again and elaborates on it a little more. For this is the first time I have heard him say so clearly from the platform here that the Danish Government raises its hand in the area of infrastructure. So I look forward very much to hearing what he has to say. I can't wait to hear what that means, too. Does this mean that the Danish Government is willing to invest in the large Greenland airport buildings in the future, or what kind of hand-out is the Prime Minister talking about? Secondly, we have not heard of so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525140848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525140849	With all due respect, I have now considered part of the Prime Minister's reply during the Question Time with the Prime Minister over the past several years, and the subject of an investment fund on cooperation has been raised several times. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has mentioned this to the Prime Minister several times, and he has said every time that he is open to dialogue, but that also requires the same from Greenland. So I do not think it is fair that the rapporteur is standing here and saying that this is the first time she has heard the Prime Minister say that he is raising his hand or similar words. I do not think that is a fair way of putting things into practice. The rapporteur could then reply to what the rapporteur is going to do with his two new Committee Chairs in order to promote cooperation, not least between Denmark and Greenland in the field of industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525140942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525140944	I would like to refer to an article in Politiken today in which the Prime Minister says that there may be foreign policy and security problems if a Chinese company becomes involved in the airport constructions in Greenland. That is a clear message that came out in the papers today. And I find it difficult to see what problems you are thinking about when Denmark already thinks that Chinese investments in Denmark are really smart, but not when it comes to Greenland. I would like to hear about the foreign policy and security policy aspects that lie in it, and I look forward to hearing it. I would like to say that our willingness in Inatsisartut to work with the Danish fellow Members of Parliament is great, and we have also already talked in committee about the fact that we would like to come closer to our colleagues in the Folketing and talk about Greenlandic conditions and common conditions and take the future discussions that are necessary to take, so that both parties also have a share of the result that may now come out of it later in terms of common affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141051	The next question is Mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141054	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. After all, the rapporteur has now been elected to the home parliament and congratulations on it has become chairman of a committee which has something to do with auditing etc. to do, I think, and also sit as chairman of the Greenland Committee here in the Folketing. The rapporteur has regained party ties, and I look at this with great concern, because I myself experienced the party founder in Canada when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs, as far as I remember, and I do not recall hearing him say anything nice about Denmark and about the Commonwealth, but instead it was all about doing everything possible to cut the ties. These were statements which I shall not repeat here, but at least they are not something that in my optics can be embraced in a community. I would just like to know if the rapporteur shares his views.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141206	Now I was not at the meeting to which the questioner refers, so I do not know what was said. But I can say one thing, and it is clear, and that is that the party founder is strongly in favour of independence, just as I am, and just as the parties that are now working together in the coalition do. We also certainly believe that we should be allowed to talk honestly and openly about the ideas we have and also about the issues that are in the Kingdom community, whether we are doing this here, at home, or with the people we are talking to. I also think it is very necessary that we sometimes hear some things that have to be taken up. Because it is a fact that Greenland is heading for independence, and I think we should be honest about this, but at the same time I also think that, despite Greenland's progress towards independence, we must respect each other for the differences we have. I do not think that, just because there is a desire for independence, one should speak uglylyly to each other. I certainly do not think so. You have to keep a good tone until we divorce, we have to be each other's best friends.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141320	I do not remember if I saw the rapporteur at the meeting, but at least I can only remember sitting next to the rapporteur all the way to Canada because we had to attend the same Arctic meeting but if she has attended, I do not know. I'm just saying that just during the séance, when the then Foreign Minister Vittus Q... I'll just call him that, because I can't pronounce his last name... spoke, it was so that people began to sit and look at each other and curved toes over the statements that came, about Denmark and the Commonwealth. I hope, then, that the rapporteur is not at the same level and I would also like to ask for confirmation that this is not the approach of the rapporteur to the cooperation to be continued here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141423	I do not think it is appropriate to refer to someone's act somewhere when they cannot defend themselves. In general, I think it is important to have the courage to express one's opinion as clearly as you would like, as is the case here. I also think that, despite differing views, one must respect one another for the positions one has, even if they do not correspond to one's own. Whatever the case, I think there should be room for some discussions and debates on each other's relationship, despite differing views on it. But treat each other properly, you have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141502	The next question is Mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141503	Thank you. Can the rapporteur say anything about how Greenland's role in Arctic policy is viewed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security? I'm thinking about Arctic Five and Arctic Circle, compared to finding some kind of balance with Denmark in this context, as it among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141539	Earlier in the debate, I noticed that there was a recognition among Danish parties that the general knowledge of Greenland lies in a very small place and that action needs to be taken to promote this knowledge and information to the general population. I think that is a very good approach. When I myself move around here in this part of the Kingdom community, I also think I am a little frightened to see how little one really knows about the realm itself and what it means and where it is going. And that is not all; it is also among my colleagues in general that there is a lack of knowledge about Greenlandic conditions. But when it comes to the Arctic policy in general, the continental shelf and the project sent by the Commonwealth to the United Nations Commission on the Law of the Sea; the demand for the continental shelf and the North Pole, I would say that when we get to where the Arctic Five policy comes and 20 per cent. of the Arctic is under Denmark, so I see a very small interest in what the Pole brings with it and what policy other Arctic states are designing for the Pole. And then I get a little worried about seeing a lack of knowledge about such an important issue and a lack of commitment to gain more knowledge about the project itself. I'm a little surprised about that. And I would think that when we were discussing issues such as the Commonwealth, such things would also be part of the speeches of the political parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141712	The questioner forgot to press, but I sense there's one more question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141717	Well, I didn't know you had to push in twice... never mind. I just have one more question, and that is how the rapporteur sees the timeframe for Greenland's journey towards independence, given that we are now thinking about both the economic track and the constitutional track. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141740	During the election campaign there were some other parties who set the dates. I don't. Neither does our party. We think it is extremely important for it to have the time it needs to get there. It is not just a political desire, there are many aspects on the road to independence. It is about the economy, it is about the desire of the people and the ownership of the whole process. It is about constitutional work, it is about cooperation between Denmark and Greenland and many other things. These are many, many issues that need to be taken care of and that people feel they are part of it before they get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141816	The next question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141819	Thank you very much. This is a response to the criticisms made in relation to the Government's statements on Chinese investments. I would actually like to say that I agree with the Left in their criticism of the rapporteur in relation to this issue of an Arctic investment fund, because a hand has actually been stretched out. Greenland has then chosen to say no to an Arctic investment fund, and this is a task that we have in Greenland, I think, because of course it is about what conditions it is. And it is important for Greenland that you do not get into an interest rate trap, in other words that you may find it difficult to meet the conditions set, whether it is an Arctic investment fund or a Chinese investor. So I do not think that the criticism of the rapporteur is entirely appropriate. Then I would say that another area is the EU budget and the Greenland Instrument. I think it would be quite appropriate for the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security to be involved in the debate by Mr Inatsisartut, so that Greenland too was involved in talking about Greenland. There has been a consultation in the Committee on European Affairs, in which the rapporteur, among other things, is present. not participating. I think that would have been appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525141936	Now there have just been elections and we have just constituted ourselves in committee. I can assure the questioner that we are going to interfere and we will also be very interested in it. I myself have been very much involved in the Greenland Instrument, and personally I have been very involved in ensuring that the partnership agreement develops better than it is today in relation to the fisheries agreement, but that it will also be an agreement to increase the level of education in Greenland. So I can assure the questioner that it will continue. As far as a Chinese investment is concerned, I think that there is a great deal of Chinese problem in this House. After all, we also see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is coming to conciliation on the issue itself, and the Prime Minister considers a Chinese interest in Greenland important enough to come up with an article today, pointing out that there may be foreign and security policy issues and aspects involved in this. That's why I'm asking why this China phobia? I do not think this is necessary when we see that Denmark itself has considered China to be one of their most important areas of action in relation to trade, so why not also Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142045	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142050	I would like to ask Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who is one of the proponents of having English as the first foreign language in Greenland instead of Danish, what her assessment is of importance to Greenlandic young people's ability to get an education. Because there are many educations that do not exist in Greenland, and it may not be the case in the future that all types of education can be in Greenland, because the number of young people is too small to realistically maintain any kind of specialised training in Greenland, so many Greenlandic young people need to travel out into the world. Today you are offered a free education in Denmark, but the prerequisite for getting it is to speak Danish, and if you start to speak less Danish, the Greenlandic young people who already have difficulty getting along, for example in high school, because of poor Danish knowledge, will do even worse. Does Mrs Aleqa Hammond not think that this would mean a reduction in the level of education for Greenlandic young people? And isn't Mrs. Aleqa Hammond worried about that challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142156	In fact, many young people already use English as their second language, even though we learn Danish at school. We learn Greenlandic, Danish and English, and most young people can all three languages. I personally speak English better than I speak Danish. In our home we speak Greenlandic and English. Our children can Danish in advance, because they get a good education in the schools in Nuuk, but outside Nuuk the world looks quite different. The approach to practicing Danish lies at a completely different level than it does in Nuuk. And therefore it can also be slightly different from place to place, what you think is most important to you. The fact that the new government has chosen to make English the first foreign language, I think, is a sign that the whole world is not in Denmark. I also think that the globalised world demands of us that we think beyond the framework of the Kingdom Community alone, also in order to be able to take an education outside the framework of the Kingdom Community. Of course it is good that Greenland and Denmark have such an agreement where our young people can take an education down here. And that is why I think parents should always ensure that their children speak more languages than just Greenlandic if you want them to do better in society and also get an education, whether it is in Denmark or in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142321	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142322	I am very impressed if Mrs Aleqa Hammond speaks better English than she speaks Danish, because I consider Mrs Aleqa Hammond's Danish to be completely flawless. I think that's very nice. But all other things being equal, it must still be the case for Greenlandic young people that the language you become best in is probably the language in which you spend the most time, and that if you spend less time in Danish, you become worse at Danish. I do not suppose that the intention here is to maintain the same number of Danish hours as has been the case so far. I assume that the ambition of the new Greenland Government is that there should be fewer Danish lessons in school than there is today. Isn't that right? And if it is true that there must be fewer Danish lessons in school, then it is probably also a reasonable inevitable conclusion that Greenlandic young people will become worse in Danish and thus have less opportunity to take the free courses in Denmark. Isn't that a conclusion that it's pretty hard to get around?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142419	I think it is incredibly important that if it is a language that is going to have a very important meaning in your own life and your own education, then you also have to be aware of it at a very early stage, i.e. in terms of choosing whether it is English or Danish that you want to invest hardest in. Therefore, I certainly do not hope for our young students coming to Denmark who need to upgrade their Danish to a better level than they do today that the integration minister's proposal to introduce user fees for Danish education in Denmark for Greenlandic citizens will be adopted by the majority. I hope there will be a separate exception ensuring that Greenlandic citizens are not subject to user charges here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142502	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we have come to the honourable Faroese Member, Mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525142513	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you for an exciting morning and soo dad out here in the afternoon. It has been a pleasure to hear how well things are going everywhere and how happy everyone is. Martin Breum delivered an excellent discussion book the other day asking whether politicians are holding the debate again, so as to avoid revealing a fundamental disagreement about the foundation, division of powers and the future of the Kingdom community. Now, it is a relevant question to discuss in relation to a debate about the so-called Kingdom Community. So I would like to offer some answers to the questions. History shows that governments largely follow the assurance that as long as we have no discussion about the construction of the so-called Kingdom Community, we will retain the status quo and, with few exceptions, the parties have followed the political line of changing governments, which are understood to be about safeguarding Denmark's national interests. Among members of parliament, there have always been some committed individuals who have been particularly interested in Greenlandic conditions and to some extent in Faroese issues. But, by the way, it's a little hard to feel the pulse, because the commitment isn't quite that big, except in tense situations. The more in-depth reflections that dig deeper into a spade and reflect on alternatives to current conditions are very rare. But now there is evidently a momentum, a momentum which has led to a number of key debaters breaking the silence, among them the Parliament's Nestor Bertel Haarder and the Social Democratic Mette Frederiksen, which we are missing here, as well as Admiral Nils Wang and the foreign policy chief strategist Peter Taksøe-Jensen. The motives may be very different, but fairly common to them is that they think it is time to rethink the cooperation between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, because the present form will hardly be far in the future, and they are absolutely right to do so. The 1948 Home Rule Act was conceived in an unequal battle for political power over the Faroe Islands in the postwar period. The Faroe Islands developed through 5 years of separation during the Second World War legislative competence, executive power, their own courts, a strong economy and entered into a monetary union with Britain. The confidence was top, the economy was strong, the British had recognised the Faroese flag, the reputation for the efforts during the war was great. When the Danish state power then appeared after more than 5 years of absence, it had only one agenda: to strip the Faroes of the newly won political independence and ensure Danish rule over the Faroe Islands. And in the confident expectation that the cousins would bow to pressure, a referendum was held on 14 September 1946, where voters were offered either to return to a semi-colonial status from before the war or a total secession between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. The majority thanked for the offer and chose the secession rather than a new colonialisation. And a shaken Danish government refused to acknowledge the outcome of the referendum a few days later and dissolved the Latting. It was out of this situation that the Home Rule Act, which was far from Faroese independence, was born in April 1948. By the way, I share one of the greatest figures of Danish law science in the 20th century's concerns about the word kingdom community. For one of the creators, who was Alf Ross, it made it quite clear that the indictment of the new scheme as a community of kingdoms was quite wrong. A community of nations requires equal partners, who share, for example. a federal structure. But that is not the way the Home Rule Act is designed at all. It has a hierarchical structure in which Denmark has secured the continued existence of the unitary state with Denmark as a superstate and the Faroe Islands as a subordinate to the unit and with Danish constitutional interpretation as a framework. Ross therefore recommended using the term rigging about the construction, but the state chose opportunely to use the better sounding word kingdom community. Denmark's legal approach to preserving power and the borders of the kingdom is in stark contrast to the Faroese people's perception of the right to self-determination on the basis of international law. The new Faroese constitution is based on the fact that the Faroe Islands have the right to self-determination and that the supreme authority lies with the Faroese people. This means that we must implement the will of the people when the Faroese people again decide that the Faroe Islands must become independent, regardless of what they think about that matter in Copenhagen. That is also how international law regulates relations between a state and nations with the right to determine its external relations with the outside world. However, the Danish state has never recognised the Faroe Islands' right to establish itself as an independent state in relation to international law and the international community, but changing prime ministers have claimed that it is expected that the Danish Parliament will respond to a request from the Faroese people when it comes. Therefore, Denmark will be much stronger than the Faroe Islands in a negotiating situation if the parties disagree on the approach to independence, because the outside world will see it as an internal Danish matter. From the first day of the history of the so-called Kingdom Community we have thus had widely differing views of community and equality and quite different expectations of future development. Although the state's perception of home rule is static, the world's course is dynamic and therefore also our conditions of existence. For example: Denmark, together with Greenland, decided in 1972 to deposit part of its sovereignty in Brussels through membership of the European Common Market, while the Faroe Islands remained outside. This was a significant step taken by Denmark, and in reality it meant that the Faroe Islands were left alone in a number of areas which Denmark submitted in Brussels. The natural consequence would be that the Faroe Islands were given full responsibility in these areas, so that the country was able to speak for its own interests in the world community. But for the sake of the unitary state, I suppose it ended up in a hopeless construction where Denmark ended up sitting on both sides of the table in interstate contexts, represented by the European Union on the one hand and representing the Faroe Islands on the other side of the table. Well, you have to potentially serve two masters at the same time, and it's hard! It goes without saying that sooner or later it had to end badly when the EU and the Faroe Islands came into conflict with each other, and it did so largely in the wake of the mackerel dispute when the EU declared economic war against the Faroe Islands and Denmark was ordered to close its ports to Faroese exports. Then Denmark faced the dilemma of whether one should attack or defend the Faroe Islands. Of course, it was the consideration of the European Union that won. Another significant and dynamic milestone was the extension of fishing limits to 200 nautical miles in 1977. The Faroe Islands turned overnight from a small archipelago of 1,400 square kilometers into a portation that had over 270,000 square kilometers, which is roughly twice the total Danish territory. It made great demands on the Faroe Islands to negotiate new agreements with other fishing nations, and the need to act vis-à-vis the international community as a fully sovereign fishing nation has only increased over the years, but the foreign policy law of 2005 is counter-productive in intergovernmental matters. Despite the limitations of the Home Rule Act, we have built a robust society with well-trained people and a strong economy. The infrastructure is at its top, cultural life is flourishing, and we have gradually built up competent administrations. However, we are ambitious and we want to continue our journey towards independence, and we want to contribute to the creation of a more sustainable world society. Through Brexit, our southern neighbours will undoubtedly create an additional geopolitical momentum up north, and it can open up new strategic cooperation between countries in the North Atlantic and the Arctic, which can benefit greatly from Britain's significant pondus. So I don't belong to those who paint the worst on the wall because of Brexit. Rather, it can open up closer cooperation in a number of areas such as fisheries, oil exploration, transport, education and perhaps access to a free trade agreement with a market of 60 million people; we do not have that with Denmark. So my modest answer to Breum's question is that the foundation of the so-called Kingdom community was unbalanced from the start. The distribution of competences does not match today's challenges or our ambitions, and the home governance system has now, as before, behind it. So I share the opinion of the debaters: that the future cooperation between Denmark and the countries of the North Atlantic must be based on the free will of independent nations. For young ambitious cousins, an active life among like-minded people from London across Thorshavn to Nuuk will tempt far more than a passive life in the back seat of the Danish unitary state
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143549	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143554	How nice to hear Magni Arge talk about independence in the Faroe Islands and the ideas behind it. I cannot help asking the rapporteur a question. When the Faroe Islands become independent and the enforcement of sovereignty and defence policy is taken back by the Faroe Islands, how does the rapporteur intend to pursue a defence policy? And what about the whole defense issue? How will the Faroe Islands cope when the Faroe Islands become independent?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143637	Thank you for the question. I believe that there should be no doubt that the Faroese side recognizes Western society and wants to participate in a NATO context, possibly in line with what Iceland is doing today. But I also believe that it is easy to imagine that the Faroe Islands can also be more involved in closer cooperation with, for example, the Faroe Islands. Great Britain. For Britain, our nearest neighbour is located just south of us, and the Faroe Islands are like a kind of backyard and entrance door to the defence works in Britain. And it will actually be a natural thing to do, because it is about the same as what happened during World War II. I assume that we already have an agreement in NATO and from Denmark to the UK that if it were to happen that there was a need for aid to the Faroe Islands, it would come from the UK anyway. So it's just a minor middle bill, you might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143740	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143741	Speaking of the UK and English, we have just had quite a lot of discussion about the fact that the Greenland Government has now chosen to make English the first foreign language, and I hear a lot of criticism about this from the House. What about the Faroe Islands? Is it a trend that one will see in the near future, that is to say that one is considering making English the first foreign language and not Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143810	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143811	I do not think that it is on the table at the moment that we want to formalise it and turn English into the first language of Faroese education. I think, however, that we need to recognise that the way things are, it is actually the case that young people today are practically capable and fully capable of English even before they go to school. So in general it is English that they are best qualified as their first foreign language. However, I think we would like to retain a very good knowledge of both Danish and Nordic languages. For I consider it an advantage to be able to speak with all the Nordic countries in the different languages. However, I find it extremely regrettable that the only place where Faroese researches and researches outside the Faroe Islands is in Copenhagen, and the Faroese teaching is being discontinued. I think that's a shame, and I'd like to see it in several places in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143913	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143915	Thank you. Thank you for your statement, especially the historical statement, which is not discussed so often. If we are now discussing the national right of self-determination, I am thinking of what the rapporteur would like more than the conditions that exist today, where the Faroe Islands can actually decide for themselves which areas are to be taken home; a constitution will be drawn up; in principle, we can decide tomorrow that we will be independent.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525143950	I think that the Home Rule Act and the promise made by successive prime ministers are actually a little fluctuating. They're not as firm as I'd like them to be. Because we heard, for example. The rapporteur for the Conservatives is standing here a moment ago saying that the Home Rule Act can be called back by the Folketing. In other words, it has not been recognised that it is an irrevocable delegation to Faroese society. I find it frightening that it still means it in 2018. When it is only a promise from changing prime ministers that one believes that the Folketing will accept a Faroese desire to become independent, it is far too weak, in the event that one gets into a conflict situation as it did in the year 2000. I think it would be extremely important and the only proper thing to do is to inform the international community through the United Nations that the Faroe Islands enjoy the external right of self-determination. Because if you really mean it in Denmark, you should also be able to deliver that message to the UN. And if you think it costs too much to do that, I can transport the letter to New York myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525144108	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525144108-2	The letter's gonna be okay, isn't it? The most important thing, of course, is to discuss the factual content, and I am clearly of the opinion that I must disagree with the Conservatives that the Faroe Islands have an unconditional right to initiate a process of independence with their own constitution and one hundred percent autonomy at the moment the Faroe Islands want it. And then I say period. There is no doubt about that in my mind, even around Greenland. We have discussed this many times, and it is probably also described in the Home Rule Act, that this is actually the case. But, of course, the fact that you have to hold a referendum among your people is something that goes without saying. I'd like that here too if we had to do some things. If, for example, we do not know what to do. should free us from the European Union, I would demand a referendum, because it should not be something a government should decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525144202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525144204	I fully agree that, of course, a referendum is needed, and this is also provided for in the Faroese Constitution, namely that the highest authority in the Faroe Islands lies with the people and that only the people can make such a far-reaching decision. I also agree that we naturally have the right of self-determination when we assert it ourselves. We don't have to ask anyone else about it. However, there is a huge difference between whether the host state, in this case Denmark, has announced that it completely accepts the external right of self-determination. Then it is a matter for the international community, in the event of a conflict. Just look at, for example. Catalonia, which is in a situation where everyone closes their eyes and ears and says it is an internal matter for Spain. It's because they don't enjoy such a right.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525144250	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525144300	Thank you for that, President. The University of Copenhagen will close the possibility of studying Faroese. Isolatedly, it is quite a small thing, but in principle and symbolically it is important, because with this the only teaching in Faroese is closed in Danish universities. It must then be kept up against repeated political statements that people want to strengthen knowledge of the Faroe Islands. It costs a lot per person. student, it is said, and it does, but you don't study at a university to shut yourself up with your knowledge. An education is a stone that is thrown into the water, and from there the rings are spreading. When no stone is thrown, it stays quiet. And it is already quiet in the Danish primary school, where you can go for 10 years without reading a single mandatory page about the Faroe Islands. It must be kept up against the fact that all children in the Faroe Islands have Danish as a mandatory subject for 6 years, and it costs a lot of Faroese treasure crowns, but it is done because we are in a kingdom community with Denmark. So even if the university's decision does not have the very big consequences in itself, it is an expression of something bigger that has consequences. For lack of knowledge leads to a lack of interest which leads to prejudices which may lead to unnecessary conflicts. I fully agree with the Prime Minister when he says that we have a comprehensive and good and actually quite unique community, but the legal and economic arrangements cannot be the cornerstone of the community. Then it's just engineering, then there's no soul in it. What should be linked is historical and cultural knowledge and an interest that grows out of it. And you don't do that enough to care for this side of the Atlantic. I talked about this in DR yesterday morning in the morning radio, but when I took a taxi from DR City to Christiansborg afterwards, I met a driver who spoke up and down posts about Faroese culture and music and personalities. He knew so much that I was embarrassed by what I had just said on the radio. He didn't just know about Faroese history. He had also shared in telling the Faroese the most classic Danish history of all of them. The man was Niels Martin Carlsen, who played the role of Daniel in Monopoly and who now feeds himself as a driver. Perhaps the two of us have had very different political positions, I do not know, because we did not discuss that, but it would never have been possible to separate ourselves, because what linked us there in the car was the interest and knowledge of each other's culture. Disappearing knowledge also disappears interest, and so there is less to be together about. It is therefore a pity that Carlsen is one of the exceptions which always confirm the rule. It is a pity that we do not put action behind words when we talk time and time again from the political side about the fact that we want to strengthen this very point. But of course the economy is also important, and the Faroe Islands are still getting away a small block grant from Denmark. If we do everything and include all imports into the Faroe Islands from Denmark, all imports through Denmark to the Faroe Islands, all exports through Denmark from the Faroe Islands, then I do not think that the Kingdom of Denmark with the Faroe Islands is a bad business for Denmark. This is not the way to do things, but we can end up doing it if the knowledge and interest in question are not there. Nevertheless, it is of course in everyone's interest, not least in the interests of the Community itself, that we free ourselves from the block subsidy and replace it with our own production. Fortunately, that is the way things are going. We have had a very great economic advance over the last year, with surpluses on the finances and explosive growth in exports and more than full employment. It is along with the rising prices and the larger quantities of livestock that we have had this recovery. We have also had very good prices on the world market. But we would not have benefited from all this if the Faroese industry had not seized the opportunity and had made very, very large investments in the production apparatus. This has all created a very great optimism and so great a migration to the Faroe Islands last year that our biggest problem at the moment is a housing market where there is much more demand than there is supply. However, although the picture is currently positive, everyone is aware that we are vulnerable. Fishing and fish prices can fail, and the farming industry is vulnerable, and so, despite the relocation in a few years' time, we will have far more pensioners in relation to the labour force than we have today. So the future doesn't come by itself, as we say. There are things that need to be changed, adjusted and reformed and, as you know, it is not easy to do so in good time when you are not under pressure. The logic of our business as politicians is that when you can see that reform is necessary economically, it is always impossible to implement politically. You can't get support for it. When the need is so obvious that it can be given political support, it is often too late financially. But responsible politicians must try to go against this logic. We have tried this in the Faroe Islands, and we have carried out two reforms in the fisheries and pensions sector, which make us better prepared for the future than we were three years ago. The Faroese economy is almost exclusively driven by exports, and therefore the opportunities for action on the international stage are absolutely crucial. Although foreign policy is, of course, formally a common matter, we must be able to speak our own case in those areas which are essential to our economy and thus to our people. I also have a great understanding of this in this House, and I would like to acknowledge that the government has entered into discussions with the national government to replace the so-called DFG scheme. It is not appropriate that three countries, which certainly many times have cross-interests, should not be able to express more than one opinion in international contexts. I hope we will find a solution to that. I also find it regrettable that it is sometimes considered too narrowly. I find it very regrettable that last year Denmark cancelled a completely harmless agreement concluded by the Faroe Islands with Iceland. It should not be repeated. You have to find a way to do something like that. Political solutions have also been found with regard to the many border barriers that arise between the two systems in the Faroe Islands and in Denmark. Only yesterday the Folketing unanimously decided to equate residences in the Faroe Islands and Greenland with stays in Denmark in order to earn the right to a certain social benefit. Thank you. Then that obstacle has come out of the way, but there are always new obstacles. When there are two systems, new obstacles always arise, and every time we have had one removed from the list in the three years that have passed, a new one has emerged. It is a work which must continue continuously. I had an alternate in the Folketing in May. He raised the matter with the Prime Minister as to whether it would be sensible to convert an old bank in the centre of Tórshavn to a new police station if it might not be better to build a new one instead. The case was sent to the Minister for Justice, and yesterday we, myself and Bjarni Hammer, had a fine meeting with the Minister for Justice on the matter, where we were promised that we would look at the possibilities of building another station instead of rebuilding the old bank. I will also help in that process with contacts and information. Of course, I'll sign for that too. I have already been in contact with several potential investors, and I can say right now that if there is a will, there is a way. You can certainly get a much better solution for the same money if you saddle up now. In conclusion, I would like to acknowledge that the government was so sympathetic to my modest desire in relation to the Finance Act. I am not asking for the North Atlantic mandates to be involved in the financial law negotiations themselves, but it is good that we have the so-called set-up meetings with the Minister, where we can find out some minor things. On this Finance Act, I was transferred 3 million. kr. to the so-called FarGen project • a very ambitious Faroese project • and this comes on top of the 10 million. kr., which has been transferred before. This gives this project a boost in itself, but the government's goodwill is also a blue stamp that makes it much easier to get private investors on board. I spoke earlier about Daniel from Monopoly. He was thrown out of his house by his father because his father lacked knowledge of who his son was. Out of the lack of knowledge, prejudice grew, and out of them the conflicts grew, and out of them came the break between father and boy. Finally, let us avoid this jointly between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. Let us strengthen the knowledge and thus the interest. Now this is probably the last debate of its kind that we have during this parliamentary term, and then I will finally allow myself to give a little credit to a man who has meant little for the sense of community in the Kingdom community, and it is the Prime Minister, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, because he has spent a lot of time and energy strengthening this sense of community not talking down to people with speeches etc., but by meeting people and listening to people on the street in Tórshavn or during the shower in the swimming pool or on board a ferry. When you meet people in that way at eye level and they feel a personal knowledge, you really strengthen the sense of community that you do not get through speeches that are held on television etc. So I would like to sign for that, and that was the last word I had to say today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145359	Thank you. Then there are some brief comments. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145404	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned something about cultural knowledge being able to bridge political disagreements. Can the rapporteur give an example or clarify it a little more?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145422	There are sometimes political differences between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. An example could be: The Godfather of the Faroese Self-Government movement was Jóannes Patursson. He very much disagreed with the government's line towards the Faroe Islands, but he had great respect for Danish culture etc. and knowledge of it. He had lived in Denmark himself. He once wrote a tribute to Denmark, although he disagreed politically. The first verse sounds like this (the speaker recites in Faroese I know a country that has been put low because it has no mountains but has to be praised highly by the others in the Nordic family. The country is Denmark, as beautiful as a young girl with smiles on her lips and caress in her hands. So, the disagreement was very great political, but knowledge and respect were very great at the cultural level. That's what I'm thinking, and that's what you lose if you don't have the knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145552	We trust the translation, please. Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145604	Thank you, and thank you for your speech and the historical outline. For example, when the rapporteur says that the only place to study Faroese is here in Copenhagen, and that is now being closed down, and the rapporteur says at the same time that it is a small thing, I would say: yes, it may well be, but nevertheless it was one of the things we touched on in the Danish People's Party when we went through this. Because we see it as a minus, that this education is precisely abolished in both Icelandic and Faroese and the Old Norse. And when our rapporteur in this area has asked about this, you've been told that this is the 2% thing. savings. And when asked why it is exactly Faroese, it doesn't have the answers. So I can promise the rapporteur that we are pursuing this matter, because we do not really think it is right that this particular education should be so downgraded. There are plenty of examples of border barriers. It's CPR numbers and P numbers, it's our phone service where Faroese phones can't be used in Denmark etc. etc.; all such things as I am among others. has taken up. And, of course, we must do everything we can to minimise that. But can the rapporteur not just confirm that some of the obstacles to the border may also be due to a willingness or perhaps a lack of the same will from the Faroese side to the fact that it does not necessarily have to go as fast as it might?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145740	Thank you for your comment and thank you for your commitment to all these issues, which are very positive, I would like to say. Whether there is a lack of will on the part of the Faroese to remove the border barriers I cannot actually confirm. I don't know anything about that. I think that all sides would like to see these things removed. But it's just like in Nordic co-operation: everyone thinks it's wrong, but when systems work separately, sometimes there are regulations that are hard to roll back. We got one rolled back yesterday, and it's taken a really long time, but I'm really glad you wanted to. There is always a will to do it, but sometimes it is technically difficult, and when you remove one thing from the list, another comes up. But the will is there, and I think it is actually there from all sides, including from the Faroese side.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145829	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145831	Yeah, that's just it. I took one of them. with our phones and telephones up, that is, that cousins couldn't use their phones and park and do business in Denmark if you came from Australia, it worked, but if you came from the Kingdom community, you couldn't make it work. About all the knowledge that the rapporteur is talking about, i.e. with Daniel from Matador and so on. etc., it's also a mystery to me and I've asked about it sometimes why you don't send more Greenlandic and Faroese TV in Denmark. And there are also some improvements on the way. It's just to say that if you got to know the Faroe Islands with your mother's milk, you'd also have a better understanding of this community and what's actually moving. For example, some of the broadcasts that have been most widely seen are when Søren Ryge runs around the Faroe Islands with a racket and tries to catch a bird and something like that. So it's not like you don't want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525145938	Thank you. I totally agree. And some things have happened. Now I said that there is no compulsory education on the Faroe Islands in primary school, and I find that regrettable. But the fact that I have raised these things several times and there has been a debate on it in this Chamber has led to the fact that it has been taken up and that material has been made available to the teachers who want to teach it here. So the opportunity has been improved. I think that the final step is missing, namely making it compulsory. When it comes to DR, it has also come into the public service agreement that you need more material from the Faroe Islands. That's a good thing, too. So it goes in the right direction and the will is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525150011	Thank you, Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525150014	Thank you for reminding us of friendships and the good things that were said by the rapporteur. Yes, there are friendships, marriages, acquaintances and relationships throughout the Kingdom community, and we very often forget that little when we have the big discussion about the independence process and when we have the political struggles between two countries. So it is very good to remind each other that the Commonwealth is so much more than just political cohesion. The rapporteur spoke a little about trade and how important it is to make the economy stronger. He also talked about the vulnerability of the economy. I think that is a very important point to take up, including in a discussion like today. Like Greenland, the Faroe Islands have the right to negotiate on all domestic matters, i.e. to make bilateral agreements directly with other countries, as you also do. I would like to ask a few questions about what border barriers the Faroe Islands see when it comes to trade with other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525150123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525150125	When it comes to trade with other countries, we make our own trade agreements, and it usually goes very well. That is not where the obstacles are. They are more between Denmark and the Faroe Islands when it comes to technical border barriers. When it comes to trade, we make agreements with others. We have just concluded one with Turkey, we have concluded one with the United States and we have concluded with Britain. We do that ourselves, and we can do that. The obstacles are in the DFG scheme, as far as Greenland and the Faroe Islands are concerned, when we are in an international organisation, and you can only speak with one voice because it is one state, isn't it? When Denmark is in and the Faroe Islands are in and Greenland is in, we can only speak with one voice, and sometimes we do not agree. And that's unfortunate. For example: there is NEAFC, which regulates fishing in the North Atlantic. Greenland and the Faroe Islands are included, and it is not at all certain that we always agree. Perhaps we have a totally different approach to some things, and there may be conflicts between Greenland and the Faroe Islands. But we are forced to say the same things, because we have to represent the kingdom of Denmark. That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525150235	Then there are no further comments, and that is why the Prime Minister has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525150249	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you for a good debate here in the last five hours. This shows a great commitment to the Kingdom community and an interest in discussing the challenges and opportunities we have. I think it has been exciting to listen to, and I think there have been many nuances. I also think it has been nice to unfold that this is not just such a discussion between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, but it is also a discussion between Denmark and Greenland, between Denmark and the Faroe Islands and between the Faroe Islands and Greenland. There have been many nuances, and it has also been made clear that the other two countries in the Kingdom Community, the Faroe Islands and Greenland stand quite different and have a different starting point and thus different challenges. And maybe it's good to go down. 'Cause I kind of agree very much with Mr. Christian Juhl, a little unfamiliar to me, started with a praise which, in fact, was that we should have a concrete approach to things. Sir. Christian Juhl mentioned that when you read the statement that I have sent before the discussions here today, it is actually rich in a number of small and large steps which have found their way from thought to reality. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen was actually on the same track with a number of such concrete examples of things that matter in reality. And I kind of like that approach. I fully agree that this debate has different dimensions. Sir. Magni Arge said it was the most obvious of all by really challenging whether we have a kingdom community at all; it is a so-called kingdom community, he said. That is the one extreme in the debate, and one can theorize that for a very long time. The second corner is the more practical and concrete, and I like that approach. Less than two weeks ago, I stood quite many meters below the Atlantic Ocean between Streymoy and Eystroy, where a tunnel construction is under way, such as... This means that one will build the only roundabout under the Atlantic Ocean, a rather impressive project which, when completed, will be followed by another tunnel from Streymoy to Sandoy. I guess that corresponds in loose numbers to something that looks like 10%. of the Faroese gross domestic product • quite impressive. And it actually made me think about the experiences I have had in the Faroe Islands the last approx. 30 years. I remember the first visits. When you landed in Vágar, you had to go by ferry, and now you have an experience of a Faroese society that is connected with a fantastic development. If one recalls that story, one can also recall how cheerful remarks were made in the Danish debate in the 1980s and 1990s about these forefathers, who could not see a mountain without drilling holes in it, about the world's largest recorder, and how else it was called. However, it has to be said here that an infrastructure has been created which has had an immense impact on the development of Faroese society. In relation to the debate ■ and I will return to it in a few moments now going on in Greenland about airports, it is really thought-provoking that at the moment there is a construction work going on in the Faroe Islands, which is equivalent to 10%. of the Faroese GDP, without us having heard about it in Denmark or discussed it in Denmark as it were. It is handled by the Faroe Islands themselves, and it is even without a guarantee from the Faroese national bank. It is funds that have been provided in the open financing market, but of course decoupled, so that there is no link between investors and owners and there can therefore also be a security in the Faroe Islands that this very central infrastructure is not suddenly in some hands where you cannot control it yourself. Why do I mention that? I mention this because I understand perfectly well that in Greenlandic society there is a similar ambition, albeit with a completely different geography, because tunnels do not reach, the distances are too large, but there is then the airport • to develop an infrastructure as a prerequisite for economic growth. I fully understand. The concrete project in Greenland is then, you might say, twice as large, both measured on one parameter and the other. I guess it's in the vicinity of 3.6 billion. kr. corresponding 20 per cent. of Greenland's gross domestic product. It's a huge project. But I understand that you're thinking those thoughts. If I have allowed myself, in today's debate and also before today's debate, to raise a small flag in order to promote a reflection in Greenland, it is because I think it is extremely important that in the development of Greenlandic society, and especially in a situation where one apparently has autonomy as an ambition, one thinks: how do we develop without really gambling with our independence by risking getting into a situation where others get claims on one? Of course, I say this very much to Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who was right about me in rather striking terms. This is, of course, linked to the fact that, on the one hand, I fully recognise the need for these investments in infrastructure, because this is an important prerequisite for business development and new jobs, and it is something that Greenland needs • the Faroese tunnel example serves as an example of what this may mean • but on the other hand, I just have to repeat here at the end of the debate that, depending on financing and external partners, investments in airport projects can have foreign policy perspectives. We must insist on discussing this with the Home Rule Government of Greenland, and it is not an expression of double standards, as it was suggested, at all. Both Denmark and Greenland and the Faroe Islands and all sorts of other countries can benefit very well from cooperation with e.g. China. That goes without saying. Most countries, including Denmark, are happy to accept investment, but many countries have at the same time introduced mechanisms to prevent foreign acquisitions in particular strategic sectors. This applies to the United States, to Germany, and there is also currently a discussion in Europe on investment screening and specific investment screening mechanisms. It is a debate we also have to have in Denmark and not only in Denmark-Denmark, but in the Kingdom Community of Denmark. It is a work that we have set in motion, and we hope, of course, that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands will engage in it. Because on the one hand we must be open to investment, but on the other hand we must not be naive, because not all foreign investment is necessarily beneficial or good investment. So the choice of external partners can have foreign policy perspectives. It is also in this light that not only today, but repeatedly on behalf of my government, I have signalled an interest in having a dialogue with Greenland on how we can jointly promote the development that is desired in Greenland in terms of business development and infrastructure. So when Mrs Aleqa Hammond was so freely quoted, because I did not write it all down, said that there is a need for foreign investment and that there is an interest out there I think China was mentioned and said that unfortunately the same thing does not apply on the Danish side, I simply have to arrest it because it is positively wrong. As recently as, or so long ago, it could be said, as before a similar debate we had in May last year here in the Assembly Hall, I wrote a chronicle which, in my best memory, was brought both in the Jyllands-Posten and in Greenland's post, where I wrote, and I quote: "It is clear from the coalition agreement that it is then the coalition agreement that was for the government that was at that time that Naalakersuisut wants a joint Danish-Greenland development fund to be set up for investments in profitable construction and infrastructure projects in Greenland. The government is, of course, prepared to discuss the issue if Naalakkersuisut addresses itself. I have not received any representations, and I repeat the message here today. I do not think I can say much more clearly than I have done now that I fully recognise the need and ambition to make infrastructure investments that can promote business development, promote tourism development and promote a more sustainable economy. I fully recognise the need for this to require investment, which also comes from outside. But I have also sent out the very clear signal in several debates that the Danish Government is happy to enter into a discussion with the Greenland Government about this. If it has not been clear before, I hope it is quite clear now. Moreover, I do not intend to comment on the whole debate, because there is really nothing in the debate that will make my first speech impossible to stand, but perhaps make a single comment on the language that has filled a little. And the thought-provoking thing is that it fills up a little on two fronts, for there will be among other things. the question of participation fees for Danish teaching to Greenlanders and Faroese, that is to say in Denmark, and it is relevant questions and something that we need to look at. I am also personally very concerned about this, because we must be careful not to create language barriers. However, it is perhaps a little thought-provoking that the discussion about the participation fee for Danish teaching in Denmark is being brought up, while the priority of the Danish language in Greenland is being debated. I am fully aware of what was also said by Mrs Aleqa Hammond, namely that this is a Greenlandic decision. But in an open and honest debate, where there is also a demand that we develop the Kingdom community and cooperation, we need to be honest with each other. And I have to say that the discussion about the location of the Danish language in Greenland gives me deep concern. Denmark is open to all Greenlandic young people who want to improve their skills for all Greenlandic young people who want to improve their skills, but the prerequisite for taking the leap is to master the Danish language, just as the chances of success when you have taken the leap depend on whether you can handle the Danish language. That is why I must say that I am very much in line with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, who, as I listened to, expressed a concern as to how a possible downgrading of the Danish language in the Greenlandic school system will make it possible for young Greenlanders to gain an educational boost. I share the views that emerged in this discussion from Mr. Karsten Hønge, from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, from Mr. Marcus Knuth and from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, whom I certainly noted with certainty, had the same concern that I am expressing here. And I am quite clear that this is not something that I have any formal influence on, but I would just like to use this opportunity to stress the importance of thinking and that, in a symbolism, you do not really get the door closed to what you want, namely equip your people with competence to stand on their own feet with the ultimate desire and the ultimate ambition behind it: to equip the whole of society to stand on its own feet. Self-sufficiency is not absolute. Sovereignty is not absolute. We live in a time and on a planet where no one can do everything themselves and where one has to, whether one is a big country or a small one, to ally and share decision-making powers with others. This applies to Denmark as a member of the European Union, as a member of the Nordic Council, as to the Faroe Islands, as well as Greenland, and it will apply to both the Faroe Islands and Greenland into eternity. It is not necessarily the same as that the organization is to be the same as today, but it is going to apply for all eternity that no one can stand by himself. I have been pleased that there have been more in this debate, rather than staying in this a little more theoretical corner, about what the basic law sets for autonomy; what a timetable it is to pursue; what the processes are; whether Denmark has marked externally in relation to the United Nations, that we recognise the Faroese people's right of self-determination; and the kind of more theoretical thing that has happened, to put it bluntly, sneaking in on what it is all about, namely: what is needed so that you really stand on your own feet in the sense that you have a sustainable economy, that you have a sustainable social model, that you have equal value in your society, that you do not leave anyone on the platform, and that you have a proper average standard of living? That's what matters. That is why I would just like to end with such an appeal for • repeating that the ultimate question of Greenlandic or Faroese independence is that of decisions taken by the Faroese or Greenlandic people • that you want to work together to promote what is behind it, that is, what matters, that people have something to stand up to, that you can earn your own money, that you have not fallen into an interest rate trap with those who think very long-term and very strategic, so that you really promote what it is all about, that you can carry yourself, regardless of the formal legal framework in which it is lived. I think I will confine myself to saying this and then, of course, make myself available for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152028	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152030	Greenland has the right to negotiate with other countries on matters that have already been taken over, in this context also concerning the construction of airports. In this context, Greenland has a dialogue with China. And the Prime Minister's letter in Politiken today says that Greenland's cooperation with China can currently be seen by the Prime Minister as a problematic thing, and he says that there are foreign policy and security problems if a Chinese company becomes involved in aviation construction in Greenland. Can the Prime Minister clarify what problems may now be of a foreign policy and security nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152129	So, with all due respect, I think this is a somewhat free translation of what I have said to Politiken today. And then perhaps I repeat myself a little: I fully recognise that there is an ambition in Greenland to make some infrastructure investments. I fully recognise that it is in this sense a Greenlandic decision to implement it. I hope that the economy is really being studied behind it, but I fully acknowledge it. I am just saying that depending on the partner and the financing model, it may have some foreign and security policy implications. You have to be open about that. This isn't just addressed to Greenland. It is, of course, a debate that is taking place throughout Europe throughout Europe to try to find the balance between being open to foreign investment and not being naive about sensual infrastructure. This debate is taking place in Europe. You can also travel elsewhere in the world and then you can see examples of what is hiding behind that debate in a number of African countries. You can go to the Maldives, you can go to different places and see what the risk might be of building an addiction that is not necessarily healthy. I want a debate on this with Greenland. That is why the government has launched a work on investment screening schemes in the wake of a European debate. It also has a Greenlandic and Faroese replication. We'd be happy to cooperate on that. However, I would like to stress, in order to make it clear now, that there are also other places to go. So if Mrs Aleqa Hammond's starting point is what was said before, namely that one has to turn to a particular side because there is no Danish interest, then it is based on a falsum.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152338	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152339	I would like to wish the Prime Minister every success in working well with Greenland on the construction of airports in Greenland, because we would like to do so. In a community where there are three different languages and other languages that are not spoken in the Kingdom, there will always be a language problem and debate and discussion all the way through. We have that at home, too. There are some places where Danish fills so much that some cannot speak Greenlandic anymore. That is also a problem. So the discussion is everywhere. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the integration minister's proposal that Greenlanders should in future be charged user fees in order to get an education in Danish here in Denmark. Is that something you want to maintain, or is it something you want to ignore and remove the part where it is going to hit Greenlanders?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152444	I understand that question and I am, in fact, prepared to look at it, even though I do not know all the details of it here. As a starting point it also affects Greenland, it is because there are equal treatment principles and other things, but with that in mind I would like to look at it because I do not want any language barriers. In my view, this is just a bit a dilemma in that Mrs Aleqa Hammond points out the problem of user fees for Greenlanders in Denmark who have to learn Danish, while at the same time in Greenland they want to pursue a policy that de facto reduces the opportunities for the future Greenlandic generation to be able to learn Danish as a springboard in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152538	There are many comments and questions, so I would ask everyone to keep to their speaking time. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152547	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister, who is also Minister for the Commonwealth. Thank you, too, for your comments and for your direct praise, which I at least noticed there, also to the representative of Inuit Ataqatigiit. In relation to an Arctic investment fund, I think it is very positive that the government has moved on that issue, and I think it is extremely regrettable that Greenland, from the side of the Naala Suisut, has not accepted the extended hand. I think that is important to make clear. Of course you can always talk about conditions, but I think it is important to have at least a dialogue on what an Arctic investment fund might look like. What kind of investment could be involved in creating some growth and some development in Greenlandic society? So I think that this call has at least been passed on to Greenland. I think that perhaps there is a need to discuss how we can achieve clarity. Because we know that there are some issues where there are grey areas and where Danish people come in and say that there are some foreign and security policy considerations that we need to be aware of, but it comes in a bit on a case-by-case basis. Is this something that could possibly be discussed in the future, in other words to create this clarity about what is Danish responsibility and what is Greenlandic responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152706	Thank you for that! But must always remember the speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152707	The last point I agree with, and that is also why I am saying about Danish considerations, which are not isolated Danish considerations, about how to find this balance point because we are against protectionism, we are against barriers to investment, that is quite generally a view: how do you balance it against, country by country, to be able to protect sensitive sectors? It is a work that I like and naturally involve both Greenland and the Faroe Islands in. It is set in motion and it will be a theme for the discussions we will have at the Kingdom meeting next month. Then I am pleased to note what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen said about sending signals back to Greenland, because I cannot insist on engaging Denmark in a new construction that could possibly promote investment in Greenland. Well, I can send a signal that we would like to have a discussion on it, and then I can hope that in Greenland there is a government that says that it would like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152822	Thank you. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152828	Thank you very much. After all, I grew up in a home rule age, and when we finished primary and secondary school and with the university, we were told that we were Greenland's future. And somewhere you can say that the fact that I am standing here representing Greenland is also a manifestation of it. The Danish language, the English language, has helped to give me some opportunities, and my concern is one of these. at these 600 Greenlandic students that we have in Denmark and who today have some opportunities to improve their skills. What concerns me in this whole debate about independence and about languages is that some values such as flexibility and doing an honour in doing a good job, and that it takes time to improve, unfortunately in some way, are a little forgotten, I think. And I think that this with the opportunities that need to be available to take an education in Denmark forward-looking...
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152924	Yes, please! Speaking time has been greatly exceeded! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525152927	It is very much an attitude that was expressed there, for which I would simply like to sign for and express my agreement. How to set up a language regime in Greenland is of course a Greenlandic decision, but that is to say, I stress that Denmark, as part of the Kingdom Community, must support the opportunities for future Greenlandic generations to become as skilled as their prerequisites are, so that they can do as much for their country and thus also directly for the whole Kingdom community. That is why Denmark is open. But the practical prerequisite is that we can speak our language. And there I just ask so kindly that you take care of thinking so that you don't de facto, in fact, close some doors for future Greenlandic generations. I actually sense that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and I are looking at the same thing, namely that something needs to be considered here.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153040	Thank you. Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153041	Thank you. I do not see myself as a formalist, but rather as one who wants the utmost flexibility at all for the Faroese nation. I want as much manoeuvrability as I can possibly have. That is what we need, because we need to raise new revenue and we need to secure revenue for future welfare. We have to make new alliances everywhere. But we are constantly bumping into what to say, the limitation that has been hit in this so-called home government system in the so-called Kingdom Community. It is the formalism that comes from the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Justice. There's a constitution, and there's a home rule, and there's foreign policy laws, and I'm gonna come after you. It's all sorts of things that make it impossible. We must not talk to Iceland simply, even with Greenland, and not in NEAFC, and I do not know what. So, sir. Prime Minister, I agree: let us be practical in our approach, let us open up the room for manoeuvre so that we can have better cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153150	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153151	I fully acknowledge that Mr. Magni Arge represents a view that exists in the Faroe Islands, which, if you look at the last polls, is shared by a minority. I fully acknowledge that. I then share the view that we must take practical action. And I have to say that with the arrangements we have, I find it very difficult to see where it is that in practice borders are being imposed which prevent the Faroe Islands from independently developing Faroese society. In fact, I think that the development that has taken place in the Faroe Islands over recent years, including population figures, has now passed the 50 000 which are perhaps 51,000 before Ólavsøka is a reality example of the fact that within the framework of the Kingdom Community, not the so-called, but within the framework of the Kingdom Community, we can develop a viable society. I just want to work together on that. I will stop here, I will say to the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153309	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153311	But I would like to say that I am also glad that we have been able to develop so much despite the narrow framework we have had and despite the fact that we have been bound in the way we have been. Then I would say about that poll: polls can be put in so much, but the last time that was asked whether the Faroe Islands should enjoy the right of self-determination and whether the Faroe Islands should become an independent nation when the economy is in place in 10-15 years' time, the answer was that 90 per cent. We believe that we should enjoy the right of self-determination, the right to self-determination, the right to self-determination, the right to self-determination, and 65%. Is in favour of the Faroe Islands being an independent nation. Then we have it in place. It may be that the momentum is not so strong right now, but the train is going out there for a full thrill. We'd like Danes and Denmark to join us on this train, but we'd like to work together in a way that suits us better than the one that is at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153404	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153405	Well, I'm quite aware that polls have to be taken with a spruce of salt, and if they show something you don't like, you have to fight to change them. That's what keeps me going every day in general. But it was really just to say, also for the sake of people who are listening, that when it is so spoken here today, that there is, like only one way forward, then there are nuances. If you move around in the Faroese community, you will feel that there are nuances in this question. I must say that I do not recognise that the Faroe Islands have developed in spite of the kingdom community. Every day I would like to praise Faroese enterprise and creativity and such things, I am a huge admirer of Faroese society, but it is also a society that, as part of a kingdom community, among other things. over generations have had access to improve Faroese generation after Faroese generation in Danish society. And I would say that the interplay that has been between the Faroe Islands and Denmark as a society and at family level and in other ways is now partly a reason why Faroese society is as beautiful as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153526	Thank you. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153528	Thank you. I just have one question. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's view that the University of Copenhagen is closing the study for Faroese.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153540-2	I mean, the University of Copenhagen doesn't offer it. In the end, it can be said that there can be no study if no one signs up. Well, I'm personally sorry. We have then created a system in Denmark, which means that it is the university itself that is responsible for dimensioning the courses offered. But personally, I'm sorry. I know that the Minister for Education and Research is in dialogue with the University of Copenhagen on this issue. I would like it to be offered and even more so I would like someone to join the studio.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153624	That's it. Here you go, Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153625	I just want to thank you for your answer. That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153631	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153632	Thank you. I guess that investment and security thing takes more than half-and-a-half minutes. I think this is important, also because we have had many examples of it. All of a sudden, for example, was... Green Valley is very important to us, even though we actually said that we would give it away if the right people would accept the present. However, we have another place where there is also activity that is not Danish, namely in Thule, at Pituffik, and the service agreement has ridden us as a mare and been the occasion for quite a lot of meetings gradually, at least in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also debated here. How does the Prime Minister think this problem should be solved, and if so, what time period does he think we have for it? The same applies to transport by ship and by air, which seems to be slipping away at the moment, so that it is not the Greenlanders who profit from the two activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153733	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153734	I fully agree that these issues of security, foreign policy and the derived effects of investments that otherwise seem sensible and necessary and something like that, if they are to be dealt with properly, need more time than 11⁄2 minutes. They probably also need them to take place in a different framework than here in the Parliamentary Chamber. It could, for example, be done. be in the Foreign Policy Name. This also applies to what is being asked about here. Well, sir. Christian Juhl knows very well that there is a dialogue with the Americans, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has discussed these issues with the new American Foreign Minister at a meeting not so terribly long ago at the latest. Named.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153834	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153836	Thank you for that brief answer. It's just that we keep coming back, and we're also saying there's probably a chance, and so on. I can hear from the Prime Minister that he is perhaps a little optimistic, perhaps still a pessimist. Looks like it's running out of our hands. What about the second question that we have also touched on today? And that's the cleanup after the American activities. There are, of course, generally a number of places where we have set aside some money, and we have to see about that, but the major problem, the biggest pollution, is probably Camp Century. What are we gonna do about it? And if so, is it not reasonable to demand that the polluter should pay? Or is there an exception in such cases when it is the United States?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153927	Thank you. And then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525153928	Thank you. After all, with the defence agreement we concluded, we have set aside an amount of 180 million. kr. to clean up, and I fully agree that this does not apply to Camp Century, where we look at things with a great deal of seriousness and therefore have also initiated initiatives in agreement with the Greenland authorities, which among other things. is about monitoring the ice melting in the area and mapping the environmental effects of left-over waste. So we take it seriously. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in the process of examining in legal terms whether the United States might be liable under international law. I cannot stand by and conclude on that here today, but I just want to say that we are looking at these things very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154029	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154033	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister, both for statements and answers to questions. The Left's Greenlander, Mr. Marcus Knuth, often talks about the Kingdom as a marriage, and now I don't know what it's like with the rapporteur's marriage, but mine is based on voluntaryness and love, unconditionally. Of course, there are also compromises that are being made, but the unconditionalness seems to me to be interesting in relation to our cooperation in the Kingdom Community, and I often notice from the Prime Minister something underlying about something for something, a hint of threats in relation to block grants and in relation to Danish teaching. So, if Greenland chooses to use English, does this mean that the Prime Minister will not work for Greenlanders to receive free Danish education in Denmark? Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Or what kind of subtitles do I sense? Or maybe it's just me, but that's what I'm trying to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154141	I am very sorry if I give rise to such an underlay music. I am very much in favour of Faroese young people and Greenlandic young people coming to Denmark to study, and at the same moment they set foot at Central Station or out at the airport or up in Hirtshals, depending on the form of travel, they are treated equally, and if you choose to come to the airport with a starting point where you master Greenlandic and English and you cannot speak a word Danish, you are still welcome. Well, I have no problem with that. I just find it quite practical that the possibilities of making a study choice will be somewhat limited. Because we do not have so many studies, we offer in Greenlandic or English, and that is why the reality is that if you are to have the pleasure of using Denmark as a springboard to improve your skills in order to move on to the world or stay in Denmark or return to Greenland, then being able to the Danish language is a practical prerequisite. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154257	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154258	So that means that the Prime Minister says that it is not necessary to maintain Danish in the discussion that is taking place in Greenland, so that the Prime Minister will of course work to ensure that Danish teaching is free of charge, as is being problematized today? The second question is in relation to partners with airport development. A few years ago, Monday morning could write about the EU trying to get leading European industrial companies to create a consortium that developed mining work in Greenland. Would it also be something foreign policy, security policy, which the Prime Minister would have problems with, or is it only if it is from the global south, for example. China, is there an interest in an airport expansion?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154349	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154351	Now I don't know if I can answer everything. Because I think the first thing, i.e. the reflection on what I said, was wrong. Well, there's something formal and something real. We are a community of kingdoms, and when the Faroese and Greenlanders come to Denmark, they enter our society with equal rights, and I will certainly be the guarantor of that regardless of what conditions they have. But it's a very formalistic thing. For the reality is that if you are to have full joy and the full effect of being a young Greenlander who can go to Denmark and improve your skills, you have to come up with some kind of ballast, and by far, the vast majority of offers we offer about studies in Denmark are in Danish. That is why I agree with Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, who used the expression, yes, the exact expression used, was probably something that resembled leg buckles for future generations, if the school system in Greenland is designed in such a way that there is a probability that future generations of young Greenlanders cannot speak Danish at a skill level that allows them to benefit from the Danish education system. That's the practical implication. And I'm sorry that time ran out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154518	It was at the last minute. Then there are no more questioners. Thank you, Prime Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. As mentioned earlier, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154542	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 29 May 2018. This is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party, for a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154607	Thank you. Where is the limit on what parents can make decisions on behalf of their children? It has been regularly debated in the Folketing, not least with reference to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and also when children's rights have conflicted with the beliefs or culture of parents. For example, circumcision is forbidden. Parents are not allowed to beat their children. Parents should also not prevent their children from receiving blood if necessary. We are doing our best to prevent social control, which prevents children from growing up with an independent perception of themselves as adults and with the right to make decisions on their own behalf. Of all the many debates that the Folketing has had over the years on children's rights, one remains untouched: the issue of the right to have boys circumcised. And that despite the fact that the procedure is both painful and irreversible. A citizen's proposal on the minimum age for circumcision is probably on the way to the Parliamentary Chamber, and this question debate is therefore only intended to have a sober debate on children's rights to their own body, where we would not least like to hear what the government is thinking about this issue, but where the parties of the Folketing will also have the opportunity to deal with the clinical question, which is the following: what initiatives does the government intend to take to limit and regulate circumcision, which is not medically justified, of boys and young men under the age of 18, so as to avoid lasting damage and, on the one hand, to ensure that these citizens themselves have an influence on a decision on circumcision?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154752	Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525154800	Thank you for asking what initiatives the government intends to take to limit and regulate non-medical genital mutilation among boys under 18 years of age. The debate on genital mutilation of boys is complex. There are many important considerations that need to be balanced. It is also a debate that arouses many feelings, and it is probably also natural when it comes to our children. For the government, both the child's perspective, health considerations, implications for religions in Denmark, security, ethical and legal considerations, and also reflections on foreign policy implications as well as security implications, among others. in relation to Denmark's sent-out soldiers. Thus, this discussion is not an isolated health policy for the government, nor is it a matter that is black and white, but a matter with many facets and concerns. When the government weighs the various considerations, the conclusion is that we reject a ban. If we look around the world, up to a third of all men are circumcised. Looking in isolation at the United States, a study from 2010 showed that nearly 60% of the population were in the United States. boy children were circumcised in a hospital in the United States, and the discussion is far more and more than religiously based. It is about culture, and for many it is also about hygiene. It is a custom which may seem strange from a Danish cultural stand where we do not have the same tradition. In Denmark the health authorities neither recommend nor dissuade the circumcision of boys, and in Denmark it is traditionally Jewish and Muslim boys who are circumcised ritually, without any medical justification. However, regardless of the religious relationship, the professional requirements in Denmark are the same, and the intervention must comply with the professional guidance in this area. Since 1 January 2017, there has also been an obligation to notify all circumcisions to the National Patient Register, and that is no matter where the circumcision takes place. A total of 662 ritual circumcisions have been reported in 2017, and the figures also show that almost all circumcisions occur on children who are not yet 1 year old. Almost all the circumcisions, 654, have been carried out in private hospitals and clinics, while a few, 8 have been made outside hospitals and clinics. For comparison, a total of 3,831 medical circumcisions have been reported in 2017 for reasons such as: Front skin narrowing or other things that can lead to a medical circumcision. It is the opinion of the Danish Health Service that there is no basis for recommending a ban on ritual genital mutilation of boys if the procedure is carried out by competent doctors. And when circumcising boys, there are generally few complications, and there are very rarely serious side effects. The assessment is also that, from a health and patient safety perspective, there can be advantages in circumcising boys' children in their first months of life rather than later, because at that time the intervention will be smaller and typically cause fewer complications. Circumcision in Denmark is seen as an operational intervention within the meaning of the Authorization Act. It is therefore only doctors who are allowed to carry out the procedure, but, as in other areas, a technical delegation can take place. If the doctor fails to fulfil his or her responsibilities, a case of supervision may be brought against the doctor, which may ultimately result in the doctor being deprived of his or her authorization. If the doctor has shown serious negligence during the procedure, the doctor may be fined. Both clinics and doctors who carry out ritual circumcision in Denmark are supervised, and the clinics include: register with the Patient Safety Management Board so that they can also be part of the risk-based supervision of treatment sites in Denmark. In the period 1998 to 21 March 2018, the Board of Patient Safety and before that of the Danish Health Authority identified 19 supervisory cases in relation to male circumcision, 7 of which concern the same doctor. Since the inventory is generated on the basis of a search in the journal system of the administration, where there is no coding of whether cases have been created in connection with circumcision, there may be several cases. 14 of the cases most likely concern ritual circumcision, while indications of circumcision in the remaining five cases cannot be readily established. In three of the cases most likely to concern ritual circumcision, supervisory sanctions have been imposed, one clearance waiver and two company restrictions. The Board of Patient Safety and before the Patient Offer has also received and dealt with complaints about circumcisions. When searching its journal system, the Board has identified 14 complaints concerning male circumcision that have been closed within the last 5 years. It is estimated that in the vast majority of cases there are medical circumcisions. 13 complaints concern genital mutilation in medical terms. Finally, the Patient Compensation Report states that no decisions have been taken during the period from 1 July 2013 to 31 December 2015 in cases concerning ritual circumcision and that no new claims for genital mutilation have been registered during the period from 10 February 2016 to 19 March of this year. There is also sometimes the dimension in the debate that there is a lack of equality when female genital mutilation is prohibited under the penal code, while the same is not the case in the case of male genital mutilation. I also heard the SF's rapporteur mention this. I think it is important in this discussion to emphasise that the two interventions, male and female circumcision, health care cannot be directly compared, and therefore there is good reason why legislation makes a distinction between female and male circumcision. As can be seen from my reply to the Danish Parliament on female circumcision and from contributions from the Ministry of Justice, I can quote the following: cutting, especially infibulation, can have some immediate health consequences and a number of late follow-ups, partly due to the nature of the intervention and partly to the manner in which the intervention is typically carried out. The immediate consequences include pain shock and psychological shock due to the nature of the procedure, bleeding, pain in urination, infections, blood poisoning and tetanus. The followers are among other things: pain in menstruation, accumulation of menstrual blood in vagina and uterus by infibulation, abdominal pain, chronic abdominal inflammation that can cause sterility, debilitating urination problems, repeated urinary tract infections, complications associated with pregnancy and childbirth due to inelastic scar tissue, pain in intercourse and other sexual problems. Women's circumcision is therefore an extremely serious measure which, in the view of the government, must be strongly opposed. ▪ The relationship is also reflected in the Danish criminal law, and thus it is also markedly different from the health professional attitudes to ritual circumcision of boys' children, where the health authorities cannot therefore recommend a ban. This leads me on to the health consequences of a ban. A ban on ritual genital mutilation of boys could lead to the risk that health authorities no longer have knowledge of the extent of male circumcisions. At the same time, it is difficult to assess the extent to which a ban will be applied in practice. The concern may therefore be that with a ban one risks that ritual circumcision continues in secret or is simply moved abroad, where the health authorities find it difficult to keep track of how it is done and whether it is carried out professionally. As I mentioned in my introduction, the government cannot support a ban on ritual genital mutilation of boys. But that does not mean that we are not looking at the area with a desire to strengthen patient safety. Therefore, as a follow-up to the debate that has taken place here in the Danish Parliament, the government will also ask the Danish Agency for Patient Safety to update the professional guidance on genital mutilation of boys. As a government, we are also in favour of discussing with regulation the need to reserve genital mutilation outside public hospitals to urologists. If so, this would have to be done with a certain phase-in. We are also open to discussing a tightening of reporting requirements so that it becomes clearer what patient safety frameworks should be in place when genital mutilation takes place without medical grounds. But, as I said, the government does not see a ban as a solution. In this context, I would also like to mention in particular that the Ministry of Churches considers that if an already recognised religion violates a possible ban, it may serve as a basis for the church minister to initiate a specific investigation into whether or not to withdraw the recognition of the religion. For example, it will. In other words, if the Jewish community or persons associated with the Jewish community are convicted of violating a possible ban, then this could have consequences for the recognition of the Jewish community as such in Denmark. As I started by saying, this case is complex. It has many considerations and many facets. The government hasn't taken this discussion lightly. We have weighed the various considerations, and when the government weighs the overall issue and the dilemmas that rightly relate to the issues, the government has come to the conclusion that we clearly reject a ban on ritual circumcision. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525155804	Thank you to the Minister for Health. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525155816	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If anyone saw the debate last night, one must recognise that the debate can be heated, and perhaps that is also the reason why there has been very little will to take the debate in the Folketing. In fact, I also regret that the Minister himself is helping to get the debate to deal with anything other than children's rights when there is a risk of major conflicts and a lack of respect for minorities. I simply do not understand that the right of little boys to their own body can give rise to any crisis unless we speak up our own problems rather than sticking to them. In the SF we actually believe that we are able to take a sober debate on children's rights cleared of heated discussions and strawmen. For us, the debate is not about disrespect for religious minorities. For us, the debate alone is about the right of children to decide for themselves about interference of an irreversible nature. In the SF we recognize parents' right to raise their children in a certain faith, but parents do not own their children, and there comes a time when the young person himself has to decide what the young person believes in and how the young person himself wants to live his life. It is precisely for this reason that it is also important that a certain belief or cultural background does not set itself irreversible traces in the form of changes in the body. As I said in my introduction, we have made tough decisions in the past to regulate what parents can decide on behalf of their children. We have done so in relation to female circumcisions, we have done so in relation to the right of reproof, and parents can no longer prevent their children from receiving blood if necessary. We have been able to make decisions before, respecting the fact that parents love their children and have not continued traditions, culture or rituals to harm their children, but because their parents wanted their children their best. That's how we think in the SF about boys circumcision. Although it is incomprehensible for many of us to expose children to operations that are not medically justified, we recognise that faith is a strong marker. We have therefore also repeated many times that the SF does not want a ban on male circumcision, we want a minimum age, and therefore a constant question in debates has also been: is it possible to be a true Jew or Muslim if you postpone circumcision until the boy is old enough to make his own decision? And so far I have been confirmed that you can. I recognise that this will mean that the respective religions challenge us on how the ritual has been completed so far, but it is also important for the SF that the parties concerned themselves participate in the discussions and possible drafting of legislation. Because when we do not want a ban such as that which applies to female circumcision, but a minimum age, it is precisely to ensure that we continue to have the opportunity to use bodily markers within the respective religions. The debate has therefore also been seen with the SF's eyes as an invitation to discuss how religious minorities can organise their special rituals in respect of the Children's Convention. We have not been told by the Minister for Social Affairs to what extent boy circumcision is contrary to the Children's Convention, but it remains a fact that the intervention is painful and irreversible, and we know that adults are increasingly accusing society of the fact that we have not provided them with child protection against the intervention. It is precisely that fact, and no one else, that justifies the fact that, as a Parliament, we are taking the debate and sticking to what it is about, namely the right of the child to his own body. In those words, I will read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of Enhedslisten and Socialist People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament believes it is important to respect the right of children and young people to inviolability and the right to their own body, which is why it is agreed to work for an age limit for non-medical circumcision of boys. At the same time, the Folketing calls on the government to initiate information efforts to reduce non-medical boys' circumcision. • V 66).
ParlaMint-DK_20180525160232	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525160243	Thank you very much, President. This issue that we are discussing today is a subject that has been discussed many times in this Chamber, yes, ever since I was elected ten years ago, and it will probably also be discussed when I am not here anymore. Because the debate on circumcision is a debate on a great many principles, with a great many emotions, about a great many considerations that we, as responsible politicians, must take into account. Let me start by making one thing clear: social democracy is opposed to circumcising your children unless there is a reason for health care. We believe that it is a very drastic decision to make without the child being able to say no, and so we urge all parents not to have their boys circumcised. However, once it has been established, we do not believe that it is a solution that Denmark should go on its own and introduce a ban, even for the sake of the boys. With a ban, we risk that the circumcisions will still be carried out, just without a doctor being present and without it being registered and without it being followed up. This will not be a step forward for children, on the contrary. In addition, we continue to believe that it is difficult to see whether a ban will have any other negative consequences for our country, also in the context of the consultation which we actually helped to take the initiative in the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection. I am well aware that the question here today does not deal directly with whether one is for or against a ban on genital mutilation of boys, but I think it is important that the Danes know where we stand on this issue, as it is always under any political discussion and discussion when it comes to circumcision. We in the Social Democratic Party welcome the fact that there must be a doctor present during ritual circumcisions. We welcome the risk-based supervision of doctors and clinics. And we look positively at and want all ritual circumcisions to be reported. We think it is very good that we have agreed that the Ethics Council should make statements on this issue before the summer holidays. And we also think that it is positive that the government has announced an update of the professional guidance on the circumcision of boys' children that is necessary. There is an agenda, this is being discussed, and it has been discussed many times. New initiatives are being taken to take account of boys, but also take account of and political action in relation to the complexity of this area. I think it is very significant that one of the professional groups dealing with those boys who are being circumcised and any complications that may arise as a result of it, namely the Medical Association, makes their position very clear. And I would like to quote it because it is a professional group which also enjoys great prestige in our society and which upholds the individual's medical vows. It says about their attitude to circumcision: the process of eliminating genital mutilation of male children without medical indication is complex and should be conducted in dialogue with the population groups for which male circumcision has a particular religious or cultural significance. The main consideration in the transition towards the elimination of genital mutilation should be the health of the children concerned, including the minimisation of unauthorised interventions. It is a clear position and it is an attitude shared by the Social Democratic Party. That is why we are very pleased that we have also worked towards a text for adoption, which I shall now read out, because it puts new stepping stones into this complex area. It is a text adopted by the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, and it reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the debate on ritual circumcision of boys' children is complex and that there are many important considerations to be balanced. The Folketing calls on the government to enter into dialogue with the religions concerned on how to work together to tighten up the registration, control and regulation of genital mutilation of boys under the age of 18 when the intervention is not medically justified. Finally, the Danish Parliament invites the government to ask the Board for Patient Safety to update the professional guide on genital mutilation of boys. • V 67).
ParlaMint-DK_20180525160812	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will also be included in the further debate. There are brief comments and the first is from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525160820	Thanks to the Social Democrat rapporteur for a good speech, I think, and a clear message in relation to the attitude towards boy circumcision. I heard the Social Democrat rapporteur say very clearly that the Social Democrats are opposed to boy circumcision if there is no medical reason for it. And I think that's a positive announcement. I understand perfectly well the considerations that may arise from this. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is what S has of concrete proposals on what we do then, so that more boys can make this decision themselves. So what is it, according to the Social Democratic Party, that is needed to reduce the extent of boy circumcision? We have, of course, suggested that a campaign or information campaign or other targeted action be carried out on these parents, who are urging them to take this into account. But it could also be some other initiatives that go in this direction, given that social democracy does not think it is right to introduce an age limit. So what are we thinking about in terms of achieving the objective that the rapporteur is talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525160930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525160931	Thank you very much for the question. I actually concluded by saying that I think that the text of the adoption, which I read out, lays out new steps and that what I quoted from the Medical Association and which in itself is also in a different way in the text of the adoption is that these issues should be discussed with the religions concerned. We must have a dialogue; we must have the dialogue that our country is known for; it must bear some results in this context. I believe that, and the Social Democrats believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161008	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161009	I will, of course, study the text of the adoption when I see it. I think it can be understood in several ways, and I would therefore like to hear how the Social Democrats understand it. Because I do not necessarily hear it suggest that we should work in such a way to reduce or limit the scope of boys' circumcision. That is why I would like to hear how the Social Democrats understand that text. Is it the aim of the text of adoption that has been agreed that we should work for the rapporteur to talk about, in dialogue or by regulation, reducing the scope of boys' circumcision? Or how do you read it from the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161046	Thank you. I have expressed what is the clear social democratic position, and what is stated in the text of the adoption is that we must work to tighten up the registration and control and regulate the genital mutilation of boys under 18 years of age. I think it is a very clear text of adoption. And dialogue is also part of the text of adoption. I must also say that the discussions I have had with both the Jewish Society and Muslim groupings in Denmark show that they are very interested in entering into this dialogue. I really hope that a broad majority in the Folketing will support this positive and constructive debate in society, because I very much agree with Mrs Stine Brix that information needs to be provided in this discussion. And that is on the basis of what I said in my rapporteur's speech, namely that it is for the sake of the boys. It is also, of course, for the sake of the elements that emerged from our closed consultation in the Committee on Health, so that there may be some who would not think of Denmark in a positive way if you preceded other countries. After all, no other countries in the world have imposed a ban on male circumcision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161205	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161208	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his reply, and I am also listening to the rapporteur say quite rightly that this circumcision is therefore a bad idea. However, I am also listening that the rapporteur's response is to tighten up rules, regulation, control. And it is also an expression of the fact that I think the rapporteur thinks that this intervention is not a minor intervention in relation to the boys. So I would really like to hear from the health rapporteur whether the health rapporteur could imagine simply putting the intervention back in the health sector, where it is possible to carry out the procedure in a hospital and under full anesthesia, as is normally the case in medical interventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161259	I do not think that we should anticipate the dialogue which is now being called on the Minister to enter into. However, I can guarantee the SF's rapporteur that we in the Social Democratic Party will enter into this, and we will not close doors and gates; we will be open in terms of getting even better frameworks set up. I have to say again that I said in my rapporteur's speech that the Social Democratic Party believes that it is a very drastic decision to make without the child being able to say no. That is our position. As to whether we should be discussing in the future, whether there should be clinics, we decided politically at the time that there should not be, because it should not be a public offer. I have heard religions say that you could possibly make an intercultural clinic or pool that could run professionally controlled places where you could get it done. This could be an initiative. But we haven't decided on that at all. I just think we should be open and I also think we should say that the proposal for adoption that I have read here is not a question of giving the Minister a long time to have these discussions. In the context of the closed consultation, we have agreed politically that we must take some decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161419	After all, it is not the case that the Social Democrats are known as being left behind for imposing bans or restrictions on religious themes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So I am actually a little surprised that, in this matter, the Social Democratic Party has so much emphasis on the religious aspect in relation to the rights of boys. So I am actually just concerned to hear what the rapporteur himself thinks about the rights of boys. Is not the child's right to his own body being violated when it is the case that in the Social Democratic Party the religious aspect is given as much attention as one does in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161459	I think it may give the impression that the rapporteur has not really got all the elements, either from my rapporteur's speech or from what I have said afterwards. I have just made it clear that this is an area in which many aspects need to go hand in hand, among other things. the rights and integrity of the child. So this isn't a matter of whether you weigh one thing. It's a question of us making an overall, objective and for us to see proper assessment of what it is that's the complex thing in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161536	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next is Mrs Liselott Blixt as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525161550	The Socialist People's Party asks the Minister what initiatives the Minister intends to take in relation to the genital mutilation of boys. For many years now we have been debating circumcision. That is because many of us do not understand why it is necessary to cut the foreskin of little boys. There is nothing wrong with them, and they have been created as they are. The debate has been waving for a long time, and there are very many different attitudes to the circumcision of boys. I would like to make it clear that in the Danish People's Party we are opposed to circumcision. Our position is that you do not cut in healthy children. During my time as a health rapporteur, there have been a great many cases in which doctors without authorisation or who have been deprived of it have carried out circumcision in unhygienic places, and this has been detrimental to some of these children. That is why it has often been up to the rapporteur's circles to take action on this issue. In 2013 we had the Danish Health Authority carry out a safety study, and there the Danish Health Authority considered that there was no reason to circumcise, but there was also no evidence of health risks. At that time, it would have been nice if there had been something to address, and that is what is often lacking in this debate. We then wanted to have a record of circumcisions simply to find out if there were any health risks: what was there of damage? Was that what we heard around it correct, or was it made up by those who wanted a ban? We also started that registration, but it was stopped by the Data Protection Agency. So we have had a great many meetings in the years when I have been a health rapporteur. It was then taken up again, and in 2016 it became a duty for doctors to report all circumcisions of boy children. I think the Minister mentioned how many it was. It's not like it's a hundred percent up yet, and it's a little sad, because then you can't see what might have happened to things along the way. Do you register everyone? And if not, why not register everyone? These are some of the things we think we should look at. It must be reported to the National Patient Register, and it is no matter where it happens. We can see from the last reports that there has at least been an increase. We know that doctors who fail to report can be fined, and that is why it is also important that these things are checked out. Not everyone is being reported, and we think that there is a huge challenge with it. For there are a great many studies, but there are also studies that show different things. We could also see that in the debate yesterday, or was it in Detector, they ran it all? Some studies show that there are major health risks, other studies show that there are none, etc. Some say it helps on one, and some say it helps on the other. So it is clear that politicians are also confused about what is right and what is wrong. That is why we in the Danish People's Party also want a tightening up. So when the Socialist People's Party asks the Minister what initiatives are to be taken, we are in any case pleased with what we have agreed in a joint motion for a resolution, namely to call on the government to enter into a dialogue with the religions concerned on how to cooperate on these matters. I think we have some important debates and I hope that more and more people will stop circumcising, as we see in the United States that we are talking about. There it has gone down dramatically. I also hope that this will be realised in the communities of faith. There must also be some of the fathers who have had a circumcision that will not allow that to happen to their children. That is why we are behind the joint motion for a resolution, which the Social Democrat rapporteur read out, so that we can ensure that something is done in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162106	There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162110	I would like to thank Mrs Liselott Blixt for a clear and fundamental statement of position on boys' circumcision. At any rate, I hear that the Danish People's Party has a clear position of principle and does not believe that surgery should be carried out on children when there is no reason to do so. Now the Danish People's Party also stands together with the governing parties, the Social Democratic Party, the Radicals and others. behind this proposal for adoption, and what I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur believes that it should work to limit boys' circumcisions in the same way as we heard from the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162151	I think that is indirect. When you say that you want to go in and register, you want to in dialogue, etc., I also think that this is implicitly something we need to get rid of in a while. I think that's what it's gonna be. That is also why I think it is important to have the dialogue so as to ensure that more and more people hear that this is not something that we want to happen, so that in the faith communities they themselves find a way of stopping these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162220	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162222	The fact that you register, or the fact that you set rules for how circumcision is to take place, does not in my world in itself reduce boy circumcision. So what I would like to hear is whether the Danish People's Party can support making some kind of information effort or campaign, trying to reach those parents where relevant, and asking them to consider whether this is a good idea now, and so trying to set up this discussion to give the child the opportunity to choose for himself and also inform about the risk that always exists when you make an intervention • that somehow you try to do something to reach those parents, because there may be a long way from the top of a religious religion and to the people. So could the Danish People's Party see a perspective in taking such an initiative?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162308	I can do that. I will be able to give my full support to this. I think that dialogue and talk about this are important, and it is also important that we inform. That is why I think it is important that we have these records. That is why it is one of the things we have been working for for many years, because we know that different things are happening in connection with a circumcision and that we need to know about it and not these different projects, where one says one thing and the other says another thing. I therefore believe that the registrations we can make in Denmark will be more up to date. And then you can inform and guide the parents who want it. But we see a lot of people who choose this from, and I hope this talk will do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162354	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162357	Thank you for that, and also thank you from my side for a clear statement regarding the ban on the genital mutilation of boys. Personally, I think it's fine with a minimum age. In fact, I also think it is important to stick to it. But the rapporteur also explains very well some of the dilemmas actually associated with non-medical circumcision, i.e. the risks associated with it. Does the rapporteur think that, in the near future, perhaps we have come to the point where we can say that the rights of the child must be more than a surgical intervention for religious reasons?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162440	I certainly hope so. As I said, I don't think you have to cut children, whether it's to operate on a pee-pee or cutting breasts off someone who wants a different sex. It's not something that has to happen until you're old enough to make a decision yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162456	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Jane Heitmann as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525162506	The subject of boys' circumcision has aroused much attention and many strong feelings, for it is a question with many nuances and many facets. With my speech today, I will try to accommodate the many nuances and facets, because we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left have also had a fruitful debate in which the many nuances and facets have been turned and turned. And even though I am speaking on behalf of the parliamentary group today, it is also important to emphasise that each of us may have stressed and highlighted various arguments in our final resolution and position. Health, security, religious or ethical arguments speak to each of us, but with varying degrees of gravity. As far as I am concerned, it is quite natural for emotions to be awakened when it comes to deciding with oneself whether it makes sense or not to ban boy circumcision? Because we all want to take care of our children, and I basically believe that a lot of Danes find it incredibly difficult to understand what ritual circumcision of boys means, and why the ritual circumcision that takes place, among other things. among Danish Jews, is so important a marker in a religion. It seems to me that it is a perfectly natural reaction seen through Christian spectacles to distance themselves, for the vast majority of Danes are inconceivable to want to let someone cut our children without a medical justification. I feel the same way. I'm the mother of three children, these two are boys, and I would never, ever, ever allow anyone to touch my children without objective medical justification. There is no need to cut children without a clear medical indication, that is how we see it in the Left. We have decided not to support a ban, and we have done so after careful consideration by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left. And when the Left has concluded, as we have, it is due to several reasons, and I would like to explain a few of them here. An age limit of 18 would mean that believing Jews and Muslims could only be circumcised legally when they are 18 years old. According to medical science, circumcision later in life means complications more often. In other words, an age limit may lead to more complications for men who are circumcised than they would otherwise have had if they were circumcised as young children. And if you lean on the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority, the message from there is that you neither advise nor advise against ritual circumcision of boys. A short time ago, five ministers were in consultation on the genital mutilation of boys and the consequences of a possible ban. It was instructive, and many of us who are in the Chamber here today attended. In the Left, we have a concern about whether a ban will push a development in which Jewish society is increasingly leaving Europe. To ban a Jewish tradition which has been practiced for thousands of years can easily be interpreted as a signal that members of that religion are undesirable. We do not want that in the Left. At the same time, we do not really know whether a ban will be effective. It is easy to imagine that parents who want their boy child circumcised will instead have the circumcision carried out in hiding or abroad where other rules apply. In Denmark there must be a doctor present during the circumcision. It is important for us in the Left to follow the recommendations that have been withdrawn from the Danish Health Service and that the child, for example, should be taken into account. is the pain covered. And as long as the ritual circumcision of boys is not prohibited, there is also the possibility of raising any complaints and claims. It's security for the individual. Circumcision is widespread worldwide. It is estimated that about a third of the world's men are circumcised, and it is by no means everyone who is circumcised because of religion. This applies, among other things, to: in the United States, where more than half of men are circumcised. And if we look around the world, no other country has imposed a ban on boys circumcision. In the Left we see no reason why Denmark should take the lead as the first country in the world with a ban. We have a concern that a ban on boys' circumcision could lead to the risk that such a ban could be misused to draw a wrong picture of Denmark and have consequences for Denmark's international reputation and for the Danes living abroad. We don't want to risk that. That is why a united parliamentary group, in line with the government, has decided that the Left does not support a ban. Having said that, we must, of course, ensure that circumcision takes place in a safe and proper way, and it cannot be ruled out that it would be appropriate to examine whether there is a need to make even higher demands than today. And we in the Left are open to discussing the possibilities of allowing specially trained people to handle circumcision and to look at how to ensure better registration and allow the Patient Safety Agency to review the current guidance for an update, just as we look forward to the Ethics Council presenting an opinion on the subject expected before the summer recess. The Left can support the adoption which the Social Democrat rapporteur read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163018	There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163022	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I would like to ask, overall, although I can hear quite clearly that the Left does not support an age limit for boys circumcision, what the Left's position is in principle for boys circumcision. After all, we heard from the Socialist rapporteur, from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, that we have a clear position in principle that it does not seem to us that boy circumcision is a good idea and that we want it to be limited and reduced in the future. Where is the Left in relation to the fundamental debate? This is, of course, linked to the discussion about the child's right to decide for himself over his own body. How does the Left take this into account in this debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163112	Let me start by saying, as I said at the outset, that we have had very good discussions and fruitful discussions in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left. There are many different considerations to consider. There are health professionals. It's ethical. There's security policy. It's religious. But I also think I made this very clear in my speech. I used my own children as an example and said that I could not imagine cutting my children without medical justification, and that is also an expression of what I mentioned in the speech, the position of the Left. But having said that, we do not feel as I understand it in the Enhedslisten, that at the same time we think we should have a ban on boys circumcision. We're not there. We can easily accommodate the fact that, on the one hand, we say that there is no need to cut children without a medical indication and, on the other hand, we say that it makes no sense for us to vote in favour of a ban if it should one day become a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163211	The rapporteur listed a number of considerations that have been discussed in the Confederal Group of the European United Left, but the rapporteur did not mention consideration of the right of the child, and I would like to know whether it was an oversight or whether it was not part of the discussion. So I would like to ask whether it is a wish from the Left, regardless of the fact that we do not want to introduce an age limit, that we have less circumcision in the future, that is to say, that we restrict non-medical male circumcision, and, following on from that: how does the Left read the text of the adoption that we have? Is it implicit, as we heard from the other parties, that, in the long term, we want to reduce and limit boys' circumcision by the adoption that has been proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163253	What I said in my speech in relation to the age limit is that an age limit of 18 years would mean that believing Jews and Muslims could only be circumcised legally when they are 18 years old. That's what I said about an age limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163307	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163312	Thank you. I also took note of the fact that the rapporteur did not have the right of the child to his own body. And I would really like to know, following on from that question, whether the Left has discussed whether the genital mutilation of boys is contrary to the children's convention, or whether the Left actually believes that the two things are going well with each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163336	Surely we have also discussed the Convention on the Rights of the Child. And if we are talking about Article 12 of the Children's Convention, it is to be found in Section 20 of the Health Act. It may also be that the rapporteur would rather talk about Article 24.3. After all, the principle behind it is enshrined in the licensing law. So yes, we have certainly also discussed the Convention on the Rights of the Child, just as we have discussed the Bioethics Convention, just as we have discussed the security aspects, the ethical aspects, the health aspects, the aspects of religion. In fact, I would say that there have been many mixed colours on the palette in our discussions, and we have made great efforts to get around exactly the many nuances and facets that are really there for boys. That is, in all modesty, what I tried to say in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163442	Yes, and that is what I was trying to say in my rapporteur's speech, namely that genital mutilation of boys can become a major policy. I think that's really hard. So I would really just like to refer to Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which deals precisely with the right of the child to decide his own body, which means, of course, that at least one must be old enough to be able to decide whether irreversible interventions are being taken. Does the Left believe that the continued genital mutilation of boys is in accordance with Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163513	Yeah, I actually think it is. I think it is called Article 24.3 but it may be that we are not talking about the same article. But yes, I actually believe that child circumcision is, provided that care and conscientiousness are exercised. That is what I said in my rapporteur's speech. For us in the Left, it is crucial to follow the guidance of the Danish Health Service. I am very pleased that we are many parties supporting the updating of this guide. But yes, I do believe that boys' circumcision can be accommodated within the scope of Article 24.3 if the doctor shows care and conscientiousness.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163558	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next item is Mrs Stine Brix, as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525163607	Thank you for that, President. The position of the Enhedslisten on boy circumcision is clear: we have a decision from our 2008 annual meeting which clearly states that religious and culturally related surgical interventions are a choice that the individual must make himself. The cutting off of healthy and functional tissues is an intervention which cannot be decided by the parents on behalf of their unborn children. There is no doubt that the discussion on boys' circumcision is a difficult and sensitive discussion, and that is because two fundamental rights collide. On the one hand, it is a child's right to decide on his own body and the need not to expose a child who cannot himself be involved in a decision to unnecessary pain and unnecessary risk of complications. And there's always a risk of complications when you do a surgical procedure. On the other hand, it is also about the right to practice one's faith, freedom of religion, and that is relevant in this context, because ritual circumcision is part of both Judaism and Islam. However, when we weigh the two things against each other in the Enhedslisten, consideration for the child weighs the most heavily, and therefore it is our view that circumcision must wait until the child is old enough to make a decision on his own. It could be when you were 15 years old and according to the Health Act is large enough to give an informed consent for treatment, or it could be 18 years, when according to the same law you are old enough to give a consent for cosmetic treatment. This is a position that we share with the children's organisations Save the Child, Children's Conditions and the Children's Council, which in 2014 made a joint statement arguing against ritual boy circumcision and arguing that it is contrary to the Children's Convention. The key point is that the decision to cut off a piece of tissue which does not fail and where there is no need to operate must be the individual's own. This is a point of principle which also follows on from the Bioethics Convention, which states that intervention should only be taken on a person who is unable to give an informed consent himself if the intervention is of direct benefit to that person. I also believe that this is the view behind which the Medical Association, the Danish Nursing Council, the Midwives' Association, is that everyone is opposed to boys' circumcision without medical justification. It sometimes sounds as if there is virtually no risk of boy circumcision, but I would like to question that very much. First of all, there is always a risk involved in surgery when you break the skin as a barrier, there is a risk of infection, for bleeding, for pain, there is a risk of poor healing, and we also know, because it has been documented that in the case of boys circumcision there is a risk of urinary narrowing. It is very controversial what the late followers are, and I also saw DR 2 yesterday, where Detector tried to find up and down in the studies that lie, and they concluded that it is very difficult to say anything about, because by far most of the research available has been carried out in some quite different societies than the Danish one. Therefore, we have also called on the Minister to ask the Board of Management for Patient Safety or the Danish Health Authority, who is now the relevant party in this context, to revise the note that came in 2013 and include the new research that has come since. After all, we have received an answer today, which says that 51 new scientific studies have been coming in since 2013, including among others. a Danish study from Rigshospitalet, which actually points to a higher risk of complications than the Danish Health Authority has previously assessed. I hope, of course, that the Minister will ensure a review of that note. We have a big dark count today. The minister mentioned that 662 boys have been circumcised in 2017, and that is a figure that is very far from the number of male circumcisions that are actually estimated to be taking place, so there is no doubt that there is a whole lot going on that we do not know anything about at all, and I think that is a major problem. Our position is that we support an age limit. We are convinced that if we are to change something on this point, something more firm must be done than good intentions. If we are to protect the right of children to control their own bodies, I actually believe that an age limit is what is needed to change attitudes. I think that our more than 20-year-old experience on the right of reproof is a very good example of the fact that it was very important to shift the attitudes of the population to official legislation. We also believe that, from the official point of view, we should clearly recommend that little boys should not be circumcised if there is no medical reason for doing so. It could be, as I have mentioned here in the debate, an information effort which places the emphasis on giving the child an opportunity to decide for himself and which also clarifies the risk of complications. What is crucial is that we protect those children who cannot defend themselves and their right to control their own bodies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164202	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164212	Thank you. The debate on circumcision is very complex and many emotions and arguments are put forward. In the Liberal Alliance's parliamentary group there are also different feelings and arguments. There are health considerations, implications for religions, security and legal considerations, as well as foreign policy implications and security implications. And then there is consideration for the child's right to his own body. In the Liberal Alliance, all members of parliament are free. We have always been in this area, in other words we are speaking and voting for each Member solely on our own behalf. This is something that we have decided several years ago. The following statements are therefore on my own account and not on behalf of the LA group. For me personally, the resolution is not complex, although the debate is. I clearly believe that the right to self-body is above all other considerations and arguments and that there should therefore be an age limit of 18 years for ritual genital mutilation of boys so that they can decide whether or not to circumcise them themselves. A circumcision is a mark of life. It can't be changed. If you later in life feel sorry for your circumcision for some reason, it cannot be changed. If you choose a different religion later in life, you are still circumcised and physically marked by a religion other than the one you choose. It is not religious freedom for me, it is religious necessity. But that is my position. Others in the Liberal Alliance believe that circumcision of young boys must continue to be permitted for reasons such as those mentioned at the beginning of my speech. But although there is no doubt for me that an 18-year age limit should be introduced for the genital mutilation of boys, I believe that the debate has become a scandal. No ordinary parents wish their children harm, and there is no doubt that circumcision is done out of love for the child. I cannot agree with all statements about mutilation or other outrated statements, although, of course, there is always a risk of surgery. The members of the Liberal Alliance decide individually how to vote for the texts adopted. The Liberal Alliance does not propose any text for adoption. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164444	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164449	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for a very clear speech and I hope that the rapporteur has a very strong influence in the party. I think it's a pretty important signal to send, too, to the boys. Because we know that there are some boys out there who are angry that we haven't made this decision on their behalf a long time ago. So it is the right to decide when, and I very much agree with the rapporteur that it is important to maintain that it is a minimum age for circumcision and not a ban on circumcision. And does the rapporteur not also believe that it would be possible to have a sober debate if we were to stick to that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164526	At least I hope it is. Because it has to be said that the debate is sometimes overwhelmed, and I very much want a sober debate in the future and hope that it will also succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164540	The next question is Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164543	I would also like to sign for one, I think, fine speech. What I would like to ask is this: the Liberal Alliance has chosen to release, and I find it a little difficult to understand why this question is so special in that sense in relation to so many others. Well, we make many very important and sometimes difficult decisions in this Parliament. Why is it that you think this is so special? We do, for example, have a meeting. decision to send Danish soldiers to war. We decide on a lot of things, and you could continue the list yourself. So why is this area so special for the Liberal Alliance that it triggers a free movement of members?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164627	The Liberal Alliance has four areas where we are freed, and that has been the case for a long time, and these are areas which are very ethically sensitive and where there are many grey areas, in other words where there are many ethical aspects involved, and this is one of them. For example: euthanasia is another of them. So there are areas where we have chosen to set free, and that has been the case for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164701	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525164710	Thank you. With the question, the SF anticipates the difficult debate which is likely to come in the Chamber at the next session, namely the citizens' proposal for a minimum age for the genital mutilation of boys' children. I would first like to stress that in the alternative, each rapporteur has been freed to vote according to his own convictions, and I would also like to stress that I personally have not taken a final position. This means that my rapporteur's speech today reflects my collective reflections and some of the group's views on what is a difficult subject for us. The fact that this is difficult is due to the many dilemmas that we see in the proposal. Firstly, I believe that the debate can be seen as part of a continuous tale, which is about non-Western fellow citizens and Muslims with a religious practice that is very different from our own, my own, and which involves many more different collective rituals than, for example, in the past. I was raised and raised. I was primarily raised with Christmas Eve, baptism, confirmation and wedding. In Denmark we are individual-oriented, and religion is a personal and private matter, as opposed to, for example. in Muslim countries where one is more collectively oriented. But all religions involve rituals, regardless of which religions are involved, and we cannot ignore the fact that circumcision is part of ritual practice, for example. in Judaism and among Muslims. From my perspective, the Christian Protestant tradition, we learn that religion is an individual matter. Luther freed us from the many Catholic rituals. It has made rituals more secondary to us and, as I have said, it has made religion a more individual matter and not something that is happening to the same degree collectively in communities. We are not in the same way dependent on the community in connection with our religion. I therefore believe that it may be difficult for us to understand and recognise the rituals and religious practices of these mentioned religions. I also note that my eyes and my standards and my cultural background mean a great deal when I have to assess the reasonableness of, for example, my culture. genital mutilation, which is why I try to be very nuanced and understanding. Because I believe that it is important to try to understand what is different. Otherwise, it can create unnecessary fear and hatred. Having said that, a ban on genital mutilation is a balance of several things that I shall now discuss. First of all, is it reasonable for the religious rituals of the collective to be put in front of it, that is to say, to be regarded as more important than the rights of the individual, which here relate to the right to his own body? Is it reasonable for religious feelings to be put above the feelings of others? No, I guess not. To what extent do parents have their children? How much can we as parents control our children? And do the rights of the adult parents outweigh the rights of the child to his own body? As parents, we have the right to raise our children according to the traditions and beliefs that we live by. This may mean that parents choose to have their boy children circumcised, let their little girls have holes in their ears as babies or let their children go to sports activities that may be risky and dangerous, for example. motor sport or diving. So where's the limit? How far can we go as parents? Article 14 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child underlines children's freedoms. Children actually have freedom of religion. In Denmark, for example, we have. The right of reproof was abolished because we culturally believe that it is harmful to children that we beat them and, in bad cases, we can have our child removed by the authorities. So this is also a question of when something, for example. is an assault. How bad should it hurt a child before we think it is unacceptable behavior from a parent? And what about the psychological? When is something a psychic attack on a child? Does it count as high as a physical assault? Then there is also an important balance between our role as a majority in a society against a minority, and in this respect we should also bear in mind that children are also minorities. Then I'll get to health. We are here today with the Minister for Health. Is that okay? to perform an operation on a healthy child, knowing that all surgery involves a risk? Although the Danish Health Authority has already made an assessment, it must be the responsibility of the government to ensure clarity about the consequences of circumcision. I would also like to say that, in addition to the fundamental, ethical and health dilemmas, I also believe that there are some practical considerations that we must make. Because if we ban circumcision, I can be nervous about further marginalisation of a disgraced group in Denmark. I can also be nervous about whether circumcision will take place in secret under unsanitary conditions. Finally, I would say that it is no coincidence, I think that the serpent in paradise is a serpent, and I think you can figure out for yourself what the serpent probably symbolizes without being a Danish teacher. After all, it does not symbolize anything good in the Bible and in the religious context. So there are many considerations about the dilemmas, and I am not clear yet. There are not many easy answers. As a mother of two boys, I tend to think the child's best interests first and support an age limit, but if I am to make an attempt to respect everyone, I might lean to a model where we see that circumcision takes place in a hospital. Those were my last words. I look forward to hearing the arguments of the rapporteurs and the Minister unfolding the nuances and making me wiser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165337	Thank you, that was a long speech. We have a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165344	Thank you. I think the rapporteur managed to say this at the end, namely that there is no clarification about this. But has the alternative discussed whether to support a minimum age for the genital mutilation of boys, so that the boys themselves will have the opportunity to decide whether they want this irreversible intervention?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165406	We have not finished our discussions, we would like to call a number of experts, if you can put it that way, at least some different people with different angles to it. We have had a visit, which was a religious researcher, and now we have some visitors who are more like health professionals in their approach. So we haven't settled that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165429	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165433	I am actually surprised at how much emphasis the rapporteur put on religion as a very important reason for the genital mutilation of boys who have not themselves been involved in deciding that that is what they want. Is it simply the idea of the alternative that religion is more important than the boy's right to decide for himself what to do with his own body?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165457	I think it is an interpretation of itself if it is interpreted in such a way that religion is more balanced. I just said that religious feelings can't be beyond religious feelings and then I said, "No, they can't." So that is the rapporteur's interpretation. What I said was exactly that I mean they can't. But that is why I think we are obliged to see both sides of a case. In fact, we have some debate dogmas in the alternative that say we should, and that is what we are doing now. I think it is very decent and respectful that we should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165530	The next question is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165536	In a moment, I will go up to the platform and say something from a radical side about how difficult and dilemma-filled this discussion is. But I am really just standing up to say that this discussion can be very polarised. I think everyone's got some e-mails in their inboxes here in recent weeks that show something about how polarized and how hateful this debate can be. And what I am standing up for now is really just to thank the Alternative's rapporteur for making one of the most nuanced speeches I have heard in this debate. Thank you for helping to show that this debate can be held at a level where all nuances come in. That's all I wanted to say thank you for.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165633	Well, I am very pleased about that, because I have just tried to write a speech that respects all views, and then finally I try to discuss what it means to me as a mother without being completely clear about it. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165649	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165701	I would also like to thank you for a fine and very well-balanced and nuanced speech. I just did not understand the last part about the serpent in paradise, so I just want to know if the rapporteur will unfold it a little. Because the picture wasn't quite clear to me, and I think there were others who didn't quite understand it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165714	I have a little past as a Danish teacher, and I have also attended high school, and there are some texts that are interpreted by such a Freudian method. And maybe there, sir. Rasmus Jarlov himself can figure out what the serpent in paradise symbolizes. Then I don't think I can make it any clearer.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165732	- Sir... Rasmus Jarlov himself figure it out, or are there any more questions? The next question is Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165748	Thank you for the little lesson in Danish here at the end of the afternoon. I also think there are many fine considerations, but I would like to hear a little about the process in the alternative. How is it planned to make the decision? So, is it the parliamentary group that makes the decision, or will it be the members? For example, you have... tradition of asking Members via electronic votes or by other means. How will this decision be made in the Alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165822	Well, the way we're going to do it so far, it may change, so I can't stand here and speak for anything other than what I expect to be the process... is, as I said, that we've listened to a religious assessment or, what to say, a review of this subject. And then we will also listen to some other more medical reviews, from doctors, perhaps representatives of the Medical Association and others. From that point of view, each of us will form our own opinion and vote on the basis of our own opinion and conviction. That's what we've been planning so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165909	So that means that the alternative as such is not going to have an official position on the issue, that is to say as a party you can have it, even if you let your members go, but that it is going to be the case that every member of the House will make a decision. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165930	That's how you have to understand it right now, yeah. Because if we really are to be freed, we must go against the party's position if it is that we adopt a position on a party basis. After all, we are a party which is not such a classic ideological party, where we sit in a box or somewhere on the left-wing-right line. So, yeah, that's how you have to understand it so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525165954	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170004	The debate on the genital mutilation of boys is a dilemma, a complex and difficult one. Children's inviolable right to their own body and the argument that they should not interfere with children, unless there is a medical justification for it, the Radical Left fully agrees. We'd rather parents didn't let their kids circumcise. It's hard to understand. But is a ban on having boys under the age of 18 circumcised the solution? We do not believe that in the radical parliamentary group, and there are several reasons for this. First of all, it is about the children, and then it is about the effects of a ban. There are many balances to be made when imposing a ban. One of the first is how to enforce the law and how to sanction it. And are we sure it will serve the children's good? Let me give you a concrete example: a parent couple travels abroad shortly after the child's birth to have a circumcision, and then they are back in their normal daily life in Denmark. But what about all the children's examinations that you go to in your own doctor for the first 4-5 years of your child's life? What should the doctor do if she finds that the child is circumcised and it is not in the file? Or can we risk the parents not even showing up for these children's examinations for fear of being reported? Is that for the child's good? I find that quite frankly difficult to answer. Should doctors and health professionals report infant parents? Going to school? We are concerned about what this will mean for important relationships and for children. And what about the punishment? Is this supposed to be a fine? If you do something forbidden, there must be a consequence if the law is violated, and what should it be? Should the child be removed from the parents? We very much lack answers to that. We are also listening to the Danish Health Authority, which does not advise against genital mutilation of boys, just as no other health authority in comparable countries does. No countries in Europe have yet introduced a ban on the genital mutilation of male children. We need to have an overview of the consequences of a law and be able to enforce it wisely when we introduce it, otherwise it will be just symbolic policy. In the radical parliamentary group we have, as always, turned any argument to come up with a position, and this has been difficult. However, everyone in the radical parliamentary group agrees that we cannot support a ban on genital mutilation of boys under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170315	There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170319	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals for a clear statement, which is also in line with the fact that Radicals have discussed this issue many times in the party, I know. What I would like to ask the rapporteur, I have also asked some of the others, namely whether, radically, other initiatives could be envisaged in order to put this debate more on the agenda or bring it closer to parents; it could be through health care providers; it could be through targeted information efforts to push the decisions taken today. How does the Radical Left think of such an idea? Or do you have other thoughts about how we move it, that today it is a relatively widespread practice in some religious environments?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170410	Firstly, like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I am convinced that time is also doing something and that living in a secular society will eventually do something. After all, we are also behind the adoption text which the Socialist rapporteur previously read out, which states precisely that we want a dialogue with religious communities on how, for example, I would say, the medical part of the intervention should be carried out. And it can be said that in that dialogue there will of course be talks. There will, of course, be talks about what it is like to look at circumcision, what it is like to look at the right and inviolable right of the child to his own body, and I am convinced that the whole discussion we have today will continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170520	What I am asking is, of course, whether you have an intention or can see a purpose in reaching some of the parents who sit out there, because I believe that there is a big difference between the representatives who are, for different religions, and then the ordinary parent in the context of the parents' decision. That is why I would like to ask again whether radicals could see an idea in making such an initiative, in other words, that the authorities should engage more directly in dialogue with the parents, who are ultimately the ones holding the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170557	Mrs Stine Brix asked the Socialist rapporteur earlier, I think, whether one could see such a campaign, a health campaign, and there I was thinking while I was listening what I would say to it. And I just have to say that there are not many campaigns that have very much evidence to work very much, so I am not sure that it is a campaign that needs to be done. I think it's some other stuff. The matter is so complex, but just the fact that we have that discussion today. It will continue, we will have that discussion again in the autumn, when the citizens' proposal comes and, at the very least, the discussion will continue to be present, I am convinced that it will help to push some cultures forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170645	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170649	Thank you and also thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think that over the years we have made many difficult decisions, including ethically difficult ones, and that dialogue has taken place ahead of it. So I am actually a little uplifted that the rapporteur says that dialogue may eventually help change attitudes. But I still wonder how the Radicals think that the child's right to decide his own body is weighted in relation to precisely religious rituals and other things that some others might weight more. In other words, how serious is the child's right to decide for himself in the deliberations of the Radicals in this debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170740	Well, the Radical Left is against boy circumcision as long as the boy is under 18 years old. That is the party's official position. However, on the question raised by Mrs Kirsten Normann, I would like to say that it is also complex, because there are things that parents do to their children. There are also some parents who strap their children to the back seat of the car while smoking in closed windows. It also has an effect on the child's life, even a prolonged effect. So we do as parents things that are irreparable with the lives of our children. Does this mean that I and the Radical Left think it is okay to cut your children without medical justification? No, we don't think so. I have a little boy who has little stripers, and I couldn't dream of having his ears cut to his head, even if it's in accordance with the cultural codes we live with in Denmark. But it's legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170855	I now hear from the rapporteur that it is not without risks when it is the case that surgery is being carried out on children without there being any medical justification for it. Would it not make sense, following on from Mrs Stine Brix's suggestion that an information campaign should simply be launched, that a dialogue should actually be initiated in this way, as we have done in other areas and actually successfully? Without major natural disasters and world threats, we have succeeded in adopting things that have been difficult, for example. the abolition of the right of rebuke, the ban on the genital mutilation of girls and other difficult things.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170940	As stated in the motion for a resolution supported by the Radical Left, we want dialogue. I am hesitant about whether this dialogue should be in the form of an information campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525170948	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then I'll pass on the floor to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171005	As in all other parties, this has also given rise to many reflections in the Conservative Parliamentary Group, and we have released our group. It will be the case that the majority of the group will vote against a ban, but there is also a minority who are in favour of a ban and will vote in favour of it. It's actually the only time in this assembly that we're going to vote differently in our parliamentary group, and that's not something we do very often. As a rule, we agree on most things, but we do not have a desire or an opportunity to force members of parliament to vote against their fundamental beliefs on an issue as important as this, and that is why we end up in this way. Everyone in the Conservative People's Party recognises that there are heavy arguments both for and against a ban. Perhaps the arguments for the most simple are simple. It is certainly very easy to understand why there is a desire to protect boys' children from the pain that it gives to have their foreskin cut off. It's obviously not something that's nice for the kids. I also understand those who say that this is an assault on children that they must be subjected to this kind of pain. On the other hand, the arguments have also been examined, I think, very well here by rapporteurs before me. There is a heavy regard for culture and religion, and it has made a great impression that this tradition is so important for, among others. the Jewish community. It's hard to weigh up considerations. You can't put it on the formula. One can say that there are arguments for and against, and how does one weigh a physical pain against the abuse that some will think it is on their identity if we come up with a ban? How do you balance the other arguments that exist for and against? How do you weigh it all together? It is, of course, an assessment which one must make up one's head, and one cannot put on a formal basis what is most important. But we have ended up with the fact that we largely support the government in rejecting a ban. It hasn't been easy for us, but that's where we stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171252	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I will pass on the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171310	Thank you for the debate and the many also very nuanced speeches from the platform. As I started by saying, this case is a matter that the government has spent a very long time on, both because it is about the child's perspective, but also because it is about religious freedom. We have also had health considerations. We have had considerations about the consequences for religions in Denmark, where I also quoted what is the Church Ministry's assessment in relation to e.g. the recognition of the Jewish religion. We have had ethical discussions, legal reflections and also reflections on foreign policy implications and the security implications it may have for Denmark. When the SF's rapporteur, like nonchelant in the debate, says that it is completely irrelevant, I would just say that I do not think it is, and we do not think it is as a government. In fact, we think that it is necessary to take the discussion on an enlightened basis, that we are dealing with the many facets of the discussion. I would also like to say to the SF rapporteur that if the SF considered this to be just a question of children, I really do not understand why it is the Minister of Health who has been called up by the SF. So I guess it's also an expression that SF everything else equally recognizes that there may be health-care dimensions attached to this discussion. At least there is for the government, and in the health sector, as I explained in my introductory remarks, it is not the case that health authorities in Denmark recommend a ban. It does not recommend or advise against circumcision of ritual grounds in Denmark. From the government's point of view, we do not believe that a ban is a solution, even if, as I said in my opening remarks, we also have a desire to discuss, as expressed in the joint proposal for adoption by two of the government parties, that there may also be a need to change the regulation in terms of patient safety, among other things. in relation to the discussion as to whether it should be qualified as a specialist. So, as I said at the outset, when the government weighs the various considerations, the conclusion is that we do not want a ban on ritual circumcision in Denmark. I am, of course, making myself available for the debate, so it was not to repeat my whole preliminary remark. It was actually to allow the rapporteurs to put questions to me as a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171539	There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171543	Thank you to the Minister for the latter, because I have a few questions which relate to some of the written answers we have received here today. And what this is all about is that the Minister answers that there have been a large number of new scientific studies since the Danish Health Authority made its note. So I would like to ask whether the Minister will ensure that the new studies are reviewed and that they give rise to new knowledge, a new recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171616	Well, I think I answered that in writing, and otherwise I can repeat it today, because it is also sometimes said that there is no professional basis for the recommendations that have been made by the Danish Health Authority. There is both the guidance that we, as a government, also take to us and which we ask the Board of Patient Safety to update, but there is also this great note from 2013 that picks up the professional contribution. There I have answered, also in writing, that there have been new studies since then. And I have also replied in writing that I also consider it quite natural that you update this part as part of it that the Patient Safety Agency should update the material. So I can answer in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171657	Thank you. Then I have another question. The Minister gives us a series of answers on anesthetics and guidelines for anesthetics, and I would like to ask, following on from that, whether it is the Minister's view that drugs are being drugged in accordance with the guidelines that are being given today. I'm gonna put it down. notice that local anesthetic ointment should not be used on infants, but that the only method of anesthesia recommended is, in such a way, spinal anesthetic for infants. I would like to hear, in general terms, whether it is the Minister's impression that the stunning methods take place in accordance with the guidelines recommended here by the Danish Medicines Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171736	Well, there is professional guidance in this area, and it must be followed, even as far as being sufficiently pain-covered before, during and after the procedure is concerned. I have also replied in writing to the Danish Parliament. It is then also part of the supervision to ensure that the doctor has also shown the professional concern reflected in the instructions in relation to ensuring that there is sufficient pain coverage in relation to conscientiousness and care. So there are, of course, some considerations which are also included in the written answers, in terms of what methods and what considerations there are in relation to very young children and the need to assess them there too. Now the SF's rapporteur said earlier that they should be put into full anesthesia. After all, there are also some other considerations in relation to very young children who are included there. It is clear that it must be balanced, and that is also part of what supervision ensures, namely that the professionals who carry out the intervention also follow the guidance in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171827	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171831	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's reply. Of course, I still think it is important that we also think about the rights of children. I think that is also a health issue. Several of the rapporteurs today have actually argued that we need to control more, both in terms of hygiene, but also in terms of pain treatment and in relation to dark figures. I wonder if it is also the view of the Minister that there is indeed a need to tighten up controls and procedures, and is it really an expression of the opinion of the health rapporteurs that there is a need to do something extra? So is it simply not good enough what we are doing today? I could ask, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525171924	I said in my opening remarks, and I would like to repeat this, that the government is, in this way, open to discuss whether we should make this area of specialist reservation, i.e. whether we should say that this should be reserved for urologists. I think that this is very much to point out that there may be a need for a different regulation from that which exists today. I also said that there is a need for us to update the professional guidance. The estimate that has been referred to by a number of the rapporteurs today, from the 1,000 to the 2,000, I think it is also very relevant that we should have an assessment of whether that is the estimate that is now being used. Because it is not reflected in the fact that 662 have been reported last year, but it may also be that 662 are the real number. After all, we have introduced a registration obligation precisely to ensure that we have a proper means of control in this area too, in relation to the fact that this is done in a professionally proper manner, also in respect of the children involved and how poor hygiene around the procedure can have major consequences afterwards. This is also why it is important to follow the professional guidance and, of course, also consider professionally whether further action may be needed. I was open to that in my introductory remarks, and I would just like to confirm that from the government's point of view at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525172026	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525172031	Thank you. Because it could make very good sense, I think, that it was also considered. It does not protect the child from the irreversible procedure, but it would change some things. I attached myself to the debate and I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who said that circumcising an adult who, after all, can receive regular anesthetic is much more intrusive than circumcising an infant, which it is difficult to give the necessary anesthetic. That is why I am also thinking that the Minister's answer might suggest that we should have looked at whether the anesthesia is actually sufficient for these babies.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525172104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525172107	I would say that the rapporteur of the Left simply referred to what I have also replied in writing to the Danish Parliament, which is the board's assessment, in relation to the fact that there are fewer complications when the intervention is made on small children and that is quite real. I also assume that when you have just asked for some of the professional recommendations, including those of the Health Committee, it is in order to be able to take these decisions on an informed basis. And it is therefore a relevant element to include that, as such, there is a greater risk of complications, the later the procedure is carried out. Similarly in relation to pain coverage. As I also replied to Mrs Stine Brix, I have also replied in writing to Question 883 to the Danish Parliament, in relation to what methods these are and what they are, which forms the basis of the guidance currently in force and which we are now asking the Board for Patient Safety to update, so that we are sure that it will cover also on the basis of the professional basis that exists today.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525172201	Thank you, Minister. Then I can see that the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525172216	Thank you for that and also thank you for the debate. Several people have said in the course of the debate that dialogue is important and I think it is important. Several have also said: cooperation with religious minorities. I agree with that. Some have also indicated that you want a minimum age, but that you are not ready to legislate. I think that is a step along the way because for us it has been what it has been about. I think it is important to emphasise here once again that we in the SF also believe that parents who let their children circumcise do so because they love them and because they want to include them in a community. But we also believe that by means of dialogue we can move, as we have done historically over the ages, so that we may cease to perform this procedure, which I can hear around us no matter where we look that we all agree is a violent intervention. It is very intrusive, it is irreversible, and it means that the child cannot change it afterwards, because it cannot be done over again. In all sorts of other contexts we succeed in agreeing that it is the child's right to his own body that comes first, and perhaps we could also be helped to say to each other: it is not really a ban we want; it is just a minimum age which means that the child must be old enough to decide for himself whether the child wants circumcision in the future. I believe, in fact, that if we can be helped to cleanse our own language of some of the other elements that could be in relation to it and maintain that it is the child's right to his own body that it is the child's right to decide for himself, then I think we can achieve it at some point. At any rate, I have listened to several of the rapporteurs also thinking that in a number of years it would be quite natural to keep the child waiting in the religious communities where this ritual is still being used. I also listen to that when I have had the dialogue, because of course I have also had dialogue with both the Muslim community and with the Jewish community, and wherever we look around or are in dialogue, the same answer remains, that you can be a good Muslim, that you can be a good Jew, despite waiting to be circumcised until you are 18 years old. That is why I also think that the way forward is not indefensible; that it is an opportunity, even without fearing that we will have crises and everything else, as long as we just stick to the fact that this is about the best interests of the child and that we are also showing respect for the parents. We know they do it out of love for their children. We just want them to take account of the fact that the child is allowed to decide for himself in the end. So I would like to thank you for the debate and good weekend, if you will.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525172513	You can do that. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 29 May 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20180525172532	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 29 May 2018, at 6 pm. 11:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
