ParlaMint-DK_20181116100014	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 42 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the conduct of the European Union's travel circus) and motion for a resolution No. B 44 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of EU funding for EU parties and EU political foundations). Christian Juhl (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 43 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting imports of goods from Israeli settlements). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20181116100054	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116100113	Thank you. Last year an agreement was reached between the government and the Danish People's Party on interplay problems in relation to the pension area. We voted against at the time because we thought and still believe that the proposal was wrong and benefited the most prosperous while not solving the problems that exist. This case, however, deals with only a small part of this law. It is the case that those who receive some form of social benefit will actually be entitled to benefits if they pay an oldage pension, and that also applies if their spouse receives a social benefit. For this reason, it is suggested that the pension company can ask Payout Denmark to know whether or not the individual receives a benefit, but whether or not they receive a benefit so that the company can better advise the individual what solutions can be found for the citizen. In fact, we think this is a good way of guaranteeing the citizen, giving them good advice and ensuring that they make the right choice. However, we still believe that what was decided at the time is not good enough, but we are voting in favour of this proposal because it helps a group of people, so we agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116100221	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116100235	Thank you for that, President. The purpose of this bill is precisely to establish an IT solution so that you can find out which customers are relevant to pension institutions to guide, and they will then get information from Payout Denmark about it. In order to make this possible, pension funds will then be able to pass on CPR numbers from customers to Payout Denmark. After all, it should be the case that pension customers receive the relevant guidance so that they can make the most of their pensions. So the Danish People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116100316	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116100328	Thank you very much for that, and thank you to the previous rapporteurs for explaining the content of the draft law. In the Left, we think it should be worth saving up for retirement. That is why we, together with the Danish People's Party last year, signed the agreement for several years on the labour market. It's a deal that, among other things, is... should make it more attractive for people approaching retirement age to make a little effort on age savings. This is a very good element in the Danish system, because it increases both the incentive to save up for pension and the incentive to stay for a few more years on the labour market. The draft law we are discussing today is part of the implementation of the aforementioned political agreement, and the proposal addresses, as I have said, the part of the agreement which deals with the reorganization of occupational pensions and the possibility of putting more money aside in the autumn of working life. It is the ambition of the Left and the Government that age savings should be more integrated into compulsory labour market pensions in the future. Pension savings are a complex size for most. It can be difficult to understand when and how much is to be set aside for old age. Therefore, advice on this is often needed. It is, in fact, at the heart of this bill that we provide advice in relation to the reorganization of occupational pensions for the Danes who need it. In other words, paying an old-age pension may have an impact on income-related benefits such as housing benefits, free-time allowances or early retirement pensions, and in other words, if you are covered by an old-age pension or invest more money in your own or your partner's benefit account, it may be less favourable. Therefore, pension companies want to put a ring around the customers that may be affected by the changes. I think that is quite reasonable. Therefore, the Left also supports this bill to create an IT solution that can allow Payout Denmark to identify customers who may need targeted advice on the impact of income-related benefits on their pension company. With this proposal, we will then translate a key element into the agreement for several years on the labour market, and we will ensure that the Danes who need it receive the best possible advice on their savings, the new deposit options and the impact on concrete benefits. With those words, I must say that the Left supports the bill, and I welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately could not be represented today, and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116100605	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116100617	Thank you. The bill was sent in consultation on 1 November with a deadline for replying on 8 November. This is a completely unreasonable short consultation period and the draft law was put forward as early as 6 November before the deadline for consultation had been completed. We would like to express our sincere thanks to those organisations which, despite the unreasonable short consultation period, have taken the time to prepare adequate consultation responses. The bill was forwarded to the Folketing four days before the first reading, and only on 14 November, two days ago, did we get the consultation answer and the last consultation note. It is unacceptable that the normal deadlines for this kind of work should not be respected, so I think that there should be a clear criticism of that. The result is that we now have an unfinished legislative proposal, and I think the Minister must acknowledge that. He has certainly done so in practice, otherwise he had not already announced a number of amendments before the first reading today on the basis of the consultation responses from the Data Protection Agency and the Institute for Human Rights. If the normal procedure had now been followed and given the time needed, it would have been possible to correct it before the draft law was tabled. As far as the content is concerned, the bill, seen with Enhedslisten's glasses, is superfluous. We fully agree that pension customers must be properly advised of their pension company before choosing new forms of pension savings, and we fully agree that a problem has been created in relation to transfer income and the interaction between it and the age savings, but we see that it is a task for pension companies to provide their clients with the advice that it is not a task for the state to be involved in. It is unacceptable that public authorities should be required to hand over CPR numbers to private companies, even without the consent of citizens, with the aim that these companies should care for their customers and to promote the extraneous purpose of the State, such as that of the retirement pension being a compulsory part of occupational pensions. This is something we should leave to the occupational pensions to deal with. Moreover, during the discussion of L 16, which introduced this age saving, which Enhedslisten was also opposed to, as was the Social Democratic Party, it was pointed out that there could be a problem in relation to the interplay problems with transfer income. So the problem that has arisen here is self-created and it must, of course, be solved when a majority of the Folketing itself has created a problem. But it has to be solved by changing the rules on age saving and by going in and changing the rules on income-dependent benefits if you want to keep this age saving. That's how you have to solve this problem, instead of using the problem as a bar to force Payout Denmark to hand out CPR numbers to private companies. We also strongly reject the need for register collusion without consent. We do not see that there are any public interests at stake that make it necessary and proportionate. It is clear from the proposal that it must be voluntary for pension funds to join this cpr number search scheme. It should, of course, also be voluntary for customers. We have now seen a number of legislative proposals in which Payout Denmark is given the legal basis for register collusion, and in these legislative proposals it has been argued that interconnection is necessary because it is too expensive to obtain the information in any other way. The Enhedslisten believes that this is a dubious practice that undermines the data protection contained in the EU data protection regulation, after all, and we will warn against continuing along that path. So I have to say that, as the draft law is before us, we cannot support it. Of course, we, like everyone else, must keep up with what is happening in committee and if we can take account of any of the criticisms we have made, we must deal with it, but as it is now, we cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101015	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101025	Former rapporteurs have presented the draft law, so I will deal with it more politically. In the Liberal Alliance, we do not think it is quite easy to use private pension information, which must be exchanged between Payout Denmark and pension institutions to track down and advise citizens about pensions. We therefore think it is right, very important, that it is proposed to exchange only non-personally sensitive information and that a very high level of data protection is generally ensured around this. On the other hand, we can see that there is a need here. The target group for age savings is probably not the target group that is most informed about pension savings and the consequences. So there may well be a need for individual advice for the benefit of the individual citizen, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101121	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101138	Thank you. As Mr. Finn Sørensen was kind enough to describe, after all, this bill will be rushed through with extremely short consultation time, and it would of course be nice to have the Minister's reasons for it. So, seven days of consultation, of which three days is a weekend, means that the relevant parties have hardly had the opportunity to answer what they think about this. I think that's sloppy. We recognise that this proposal may be beneficial to pension customers in relation to counselling, but we also think that we see that there are some data protection problems. After all, the Data Protection Agency considers that the draft law is not seen to be clear and/or sufficient in accordance with the essential rules of data protection law. So, before we get to tell anyone what we think about this proposal, it may be that we should do some of the work that the Ministry should have done, namely ask some more consultative parties and external organisations what they think about it. So on this basis, we are not going to say whether we are voting for or against, but rather we are criticising an excessively short period of consultation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101301	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101308	Thank you. The Radical Left voted against the agreement of 20 June 2017, which is the basis for this bill, but nevertheless we are voting in favour of this proposal. The IT solution outlined can provide the right advice and avoid a sense of unreasonableness on the part of the individual who may be affected by this proposal both positively and negatively. So the Radical Left will vote in favour of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101337	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101346	The SF is in favour of the draft law, which can help to stem the problems of interaction which we have seen and which we have long been looking for a solution to. For SF, it is important that the LO recommends the bill. However, we have also noted that the Institute of Human Rights and the Data Protection Agency have a number of objections to data protection rules and that the Ministry of Employment, in an additional consultation note from the Ministry of Justice, which was only transmitted on Tuesday evening, notes that they will make a number of amendments. We look forward to those amendments. Despite the good intentions of the proposal, we find it problematic in the SF that data consultation can take place without the consent of the citizen. In any event, SF will therefore table an amendment aimed at giving new and existing beneficiaries the opportunity to object when Disbursement Denmark sends an indication that their data may be linked for the purposes of pension guidance. In this way, Disbursement Denmark will not be able to pass on information about recipients of benefits to the financial institutions until the deadline for opposition has expired, and Disbursement Denmark may not disclose information if the customer objects within the deadline. At any rate, this is an area that we must have identified and either through amendments by the Minister or amendments by the SF found a solution before we take a final position. However, we are, as a starting point, positive about the draft law. Then I must say quite in line with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we are very dissatisfied with the process of this legislative proposal, where both we and the people who are in the consultation process have been without real opportunity to deal with all this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101531	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then it's the Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101545	Thank you to the parliamentary rapporteurs for the comments on the bill. I note with great satisfaction that there is broad support for the draft law to establish an IT solution that allows target groups to be sought for the advice of pension institutions on age savings. In practice, this means that there will be an exchange of personal data between pension institutions and Payout Denmark. It is quite natural, as several rapporteurs have also said, that this is a matter of concern, as some of the answers to the questions that have been received bear witness to. I would like to emphasise that the processing of citizens' data is not something that the government takes lightly. That is why we have also chosen to listen to the concerns expressed and will also table amendments before the second reading of this bill which will address these concerns. There should be no doubt that the government wants to construct a sensible technical solution with respect for the rules on personal data. In this connection, it is also important for me to make it clear that the proposed solution alone will exchange non-sensitive personal data between pension institutions and Payout Denmark. Thus, pension funds are only informed that a person who is already a customer of the pension institution in question is in the target group for counselling. The further dialogue and advice on age savings shall be provided by each pension institution. The advice shall support the reorganization of occupational pensions provided for in the agreement for several years on the labour market, which is promoted by a majority of the Folketing and supported by the social partners. I would also like to point out that this advice is provided for the benefit of pension customers. This is due to the fact that age savings may be a poor financial disposition in the short term for some of the pension customers, but a good disposition in the long term, and therefore customers need advice. This is because the increase in old-age savings affects the income base for calculating certain social benefits and may thus lead to a reduced benefit payment. Therefore, pension institutions cannot simply integrate age savings into their pension package. A targeted counselling effort is necessary for customers receiving income-dependent social benefits and it is necessary in cases where the customer does not receive income-dependent benefits himself, but where the customer's income affects a spouse's or collector's benefit. It is the Government's view that the proposal before us today, and also the amendments we have been working on, strike an appropriate balance between the need to ensure the best possible pension savings for pension customers through concrete advice on the one hand and the need to protect people's personal data and to exchange as little information as possible under sufficiently high data processing requirements. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that, unfortunately, I agree with Finn Sørensen on the fundamental points that Finn Sørensen makes. I would also like to offer a technical review of the draft law and of the consultation answers received there, because that is, I must admit, not a proper process in relation to the work of the Danish Parliament. There should be no doubt about that. This is because we need the law to come into force on 15 December. After all, things may happen that make it necessary to put forward a legislative proposal with a short consultation period, which is why it is also the exception here that has to confirm the rule. It must of course be the case that there is a proper time limit for consultation, so that the organisations involved will also have the opportunity to express their views. So I would like to say that the remarks made by both Mr von der Vring and Mr von der Vring on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Finn Sørensen, but for that matter, too, sir. Karsten Hønge, has expressed, is taken even very seriously. That is why I would like to propose a technical review, also with a view to getting further into the depths of the consultation answers that have come from, among others. The Data Protection Agency, so that the legal process will be carried out on an even better basis than is currently the case, during the committee procedure that is to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101950	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116101952	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Minister's self-criticism in this respect. It suits the Minister, I think. And I would also like to thank you for the offer that there will be a technical review where we can get to the bottom of these consultation answers, not least from the Data Protection Agency. What can then be said not to wade in it is that it is legitimate that as a government you want to get some legislative proposals through very quickly on the basis of that conclusion, but now you have come to the conclusion that you want to have adopted, but then there is just to say that you have to start in better time. That's what this is all about. But thank you for at least recognizing that it must be the exception that confirms the rule, and if that is not the case, then I would hope that we can get a majority in the committee that in future, if we do not comply with the deadline, even if it is a small overrun, then just one answer, and that is over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102052	But there must be no doubt that I even attach great importance to good legal treatment and also good legal quality. I do, both when I am a minister, but I have also done so in the time when I have been in opposition, which is why there should be a connection between what you mean when you are in opposition and when you are in government. It may be a little strange if you mean one thing at one time and something else at the other time. So I would like to say quite clearly here today to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, that this is an exception and also send out the clear signal that I am making myself available for a technical review and that we must then try to drill into some of the details that have come out in that this is technically difficult. Everyone knows, however, that when things are very technical, they are linked to the fact that there may also be political challenges in it. Techniques are usually also about politics in some form. So I would like to stand by it and say that it must be done better in the future, but also ensure that a meeting is invited.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102156	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102211	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102227	In connection with the Government's proposal in August 2018 to pay an extraordinary gift of honour on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the break with the German occupying power, it was decided that the extraordinary gift of honour should be tax-free, so that the recipient is fully valued by the extraordinary gift of honour. It has been done before, it has actually been done several times, but each time you have to decide that it has to be tax-free. It is so with ordinary gifts of honor that they are by law tax-free. So what we are really doing here is proposing to make it a law that every time an extraordinary gift of honor is given, it is tax-free. This is extremely sensible, and the Social Democrats will agree to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102307	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102320	Thank you. After all, this bill is about giving a gift of honour to the victims of the occupation and their survivors, on the grounds that it was 75 years ago that the Danish Government ended its cooperation policy with the German occupying power during the Second World War. It is made in such a way as to ensure that it does not affect other services and that no tax is payable on the gift of honour they receive. That is right and fair, and therefore the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102353	Thank you. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102402	Thank you. Some proposals are difficult and deserve a great debate, while others are more straightforward to go to. This proposal certainly falls within the last category. The Danish resistance people were and are heroes. They showed courage that one can only admire a courage that saved several lives. And they also showed a high degree of humanity, which has rarely been seen equal. This requires the greatest respect from me and the Folketing, as we try to express with this law. Over time, resistance workers and their descendants have received ordinary and extraordinary gifts of honor. This has happened in connection with historical anniversaries, where the Folketing has awarded veterans and survivors such a thing. The rules on extraordinary gifts of honour have been unclear, as have the tax rules on them. The bill ensures that there will be a legal basis for the extraordinary gifts of honour, while at the same time making it clear that no tax should be paid on such gifts. Our veterans and their survivors deserve clarity about the rules. Of course, we need to have the legislation in place and, of course, we do not need to pay taxes on the extraordinary gifts of honour you receive. This is the least respect we can show to the people who risked their lives in Denmark's service. In those words, of course, the Left will vote in favour of this bill. And then I should like to welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately could not be here today, and to announce that they will also vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102545	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102558	Thank you. Of course, the Enhedslisten also supports this bill, but I would like to thank the rapporteur on the Left in particular for doing something more about it. For the disadvantage, one can say, with small, easy proposals, that then there will be no debate on them, and the viewers and those in the population who follow may not be told about the background that actually exists for that when we agree on a legislative proposal. So thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. I fully agree, and I am, in fact, glad that it will be a completely unanimous Parliament. At least I think it will be that supports such a proposal, because we have come to the common recognition, which was probably not there at the time that the resistance people did the right thing. This does not mean that they did not also make mistakes, it does people, but they were on the right path, contrary to, if you may say, official Denmark. And it's really good that we mark it with such a gift of honor. There is one thing that Enhedslisten is a little interested in and that we will just examine in committee work, and that is how regulation is actually done by those who gift gifts and what opportunities are for influencing that process. Because we actually think that the amount of DKK 10,000 that has now been arrived at could well be higher. But we will have to discuss this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102727	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102737	In the Liberal Alliance, we have it completely like the previous rapporteurs, namely that we think it is very good that we establish a firm legislative practice on these gifts of honour. Of course, we also think it is good that they are both tax-free and that they are not counted against benefits. So we also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102755	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102811	Thank you. The people whom we wish to give extraordinary gifts today come from a time when there were real heroes who fought for their country and were ready to die for their country and for their cause. And it is clear that in the alternative we also support it and support that it should not create any fiscal problems for them. So we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102833	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102842	Thank you. The Radical Left, like the other parties, warmly supports the proposal. It is reasonable that gifts of honor should be tax-free, and it is necessary that they should not be offset if it is to live up to intention in a gift of honour. So we also warmly support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102858	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102906	This is a small acknowledgment of a great effort for Denmark, and the little patch on the wound should not be made even less by paying taxes on it. That is why the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102920	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116102931	Thank you for the broad support of all the rapporteurs for the bill here. As the rapporteur for the Left, Hans Andersen, rightly mentions, this is a draft law which lays down the framework for extraordinary gifts of honour for the victims of the occupation and ensures that the recipients obtain the full value of the gift of honour, which is essentially a bill which deserves the utmost attention. That is also quite right, as Mr. Finn Sørensen of the Enhedslisten mentions that this bill does not necessarily call for such a great political discussion when there is broad agreement, but that is why one can welcome the important content of the bill. With life in action, resistance workers, etc. A very special effort during the Second World War, and the period of occupation also had many victims, among others. was in prison or concentration camp. There is a tradition that we remind each other of and appreciate the efforts made by the victims of the occupation by giving them or their survivors an extraordinary gift of honour for special anniversaries. I am therefore proud that a unanimous Finance Committee has acceded to the Government's desire to give an extraordinary gift of honour to the victims of the occupation, on the grounds that it is 75 years since the Danish Government ended its cooperation policy with the German occupying power during the second world war. The legislation in force in this area does not provide for extraordinary gifts of honour. Therefore, the purpose of the draft law is to establish the framework for the award of extraordinary gifts of honour in the legislation. This means delimiting the rightful circle of persons and ensuring that all recipients of the extraordinary gift of honor obtain the full value of the gift. The draft law provides, inter alia, that exceptional gifts of honour may be awarded by special anniversaries from the period of occupation, that the entitled circle is confined to the same circle of persons who receive the ordinary gift of honour, that the exceptional gift of honour is paid as a lump sum, and that, furthermore, the provision of material powers to exempt the extraordinary gift of honour from taxation is proposed and it is made clear that gifts of honour do not reduce the amount of social benefits. In fact, it was also the last part here that the Danish People's Party rapporteur, Bent Bøgsted, mentioned in the rapporteur's speech. The amendment takes effect on 30 August 2018 and thus includes the exceptional gift of honour paid under Act 166 of 30 August 2018. But let me thank you for the very constructive comments that have been made, and I have also noted that Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten wishes to discuss the amount of the money during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116103221	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116103237	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116103253	Today we have to deal with a legislative proposal that aims to combat sexual harassment in the Danish labour market. The proposers, the government, will raise the amount of the fine that can be awarded if you are convicted of having subjected an employee to sexual harassment, and thus also raise the compensation that an employee can receive, if you are aware that you run the case in court and win. The government is suggesting that the compensation should be increased from 25,000 kroner. This is a significant increase of DKK 8,000, but you have to have in the back of the head here that this compensation has been constant of DKK 25,000. For the last 25 years. So the compensation has now been immensely undermined by inflation. It has simply become cheaper every year over the last 25 years to expose an employee to sexual harassment, and this is of course unsustainable. If the amount had just followed inflation, it should today be an amount of DKK 40,000, so I am actually surprised, since the government is ready to correct this, that it is only proposing DKK 33,000. and thus accept that it must be cheaper to expose an employee to sexual harassment today than it was 25 years ago. So I would therefore urge the government to set the level higher. My proposal and that of the Social Democratic Party will be about 50,000 kroner, which will provide greater financial protection for the employee who is being violated. The employee we must be aware of, and this is what the research shows... has great difficulty returning to the workplace where you have been prosecuted and where you have won, perhaps even not just the same place of work, but perhaps even in some cases the same boss. In any case, research shows that victims, often women, do not return to work. That is why the amount should reflect more de facto an improper dismissal and, in the case of improper dismissals, the amounts are significantly higher than what we are witnessing today in the case of sexual harassment. I would also suggest, just so that we do not stand here again in 25 years' time and find that the whole thing has been eroded by inflation, that one could then, with a small snap, let the rate rise continuously with inflation, so that is the same amount de facto, it costs every single year. It was just a small call here to the government. The second element of the bill is about the rounds tone at the workplace. A new research project from the University of Aalborg showed that the courts tend to reject cases of sexual abuse with the argument that there is a certain connection at the workplace, i.e. that in some places you have to put up with sexual harassment. That, of course, is also unacceptable. No one should tolerate sexual harassment or other forms of harassment. That is why we welcome the fact that we are now putting an end to the use of the camouflage as an excuse for sexual harassment and sexual abuse. Having said all this, I find the government's approach to combating sexual harassment somewhat one-eyed. The focus is solely on bans and compensation, and nowhere is anything proposed that is about prevention. The focus is only on bans and compensation, but not on prevention, because if we really want to put an end to sexual harassment in the labour market, we obviously need stronger action on prevention. We know that for many, sexual harassment is a case of sexual harassment, so, unfortunately, most people end up giving up in the process, and that is why we cannot ignore the fact that the most important effort we can make is to ensure that we prevent sexual harassment from taking place in the labour market at all. So I would also urge the government to look to England and be inspired by their sexual harassment legislation. Here we work with greater employer responsibility, that is, through what is called an indirect objective responsibility, the employer has undertaken to make a preventive effort just as we know it in Denmark when it comes to the physical working environment. We know that prevention efforts in the physical working environment have saved human lives out there in the labour market and prevented a lot of work injuries, and in exactly the same way we will also be able to help a great many people by having a greater effort on the psychological working environment, thereby preventing sexual violations and sexual abuse, thereby ensuring that we have a healthier labour market and greater economic savings for society, because it is therefore expensive to treat people badly. Having said that, however, the Social Democrats back up with the comments I have made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116103756	That was exactly speaking time. Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116103813	Thank you. This proposal is then a clarification of equal working conditions, in other words that they must include the prohibition of sexual harassment. It should not be the case that some people feel offended by harassment in the workplace. Whatever it is, one must of course look at what is going on, what is going on in the workplace, how and how a normal working day is going on. That is, of course, something that must also be included in the recitals. However, nobody should feel bothered by it, and it is also important in this respect that attention should be paid to whether the person who is in the workplace feels offended by it, and it should of course also be attributed to the level of compensation, which will be increased by one third here in the legislative proposal. So I'm not gonna have to make myself quite clever about the details in the whole thing. Our equal opportunities rapporteur is ill and, as it looks now, it seems that the Danish People's Party can support the proposal, but I will wait with the final decision until our equal opportunities rapporteur is back again so that we can fully state how we stand in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116103939	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116103942	Yes, full understanding that you just need to turn it again in the Danish People's Party. So I would like to ask you a little more general, in principle, whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party considers it reasonable that every year it will be cheaper to expose an employee to sexual abuse and that every year you will be less protected as an employee if you are subjected to sexual abuse. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104013	After all, it is not fair to be subjected to sexual abuse. I don't want to be smart if it's become cheaper to be subjected to sexual abuse. I am not in a position to judge what is going on in the workplace and how serious the various harassments are. But it is not fair to be subjected in any way to harassment where you feel offended. However, where the compensation should lie, I would like to leave it to my equal opportunities rapporteur to take a closer look.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104047	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104049	It is also limited what we have of opportunities as members of parliament to do the great field work ourselves. Fortunately, however, we have universities that are doing a huge job. It is precisely at Aalborg University that a comprehensive research project has just been released which makes clear how the level has moved here, and what they are documenting is that the level of compensation has not moved for 25 years and has thus been eroded by inflation. So if we were to compare with what it cost 25 years ago to expose an employee to sexual abuse, the level should be 40,000 kroner. Today. So there are some skilled scientists who have prepared for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104131	That, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff says may sound very reasonable, but I'm gonna have a talk with my equal opportunities rapporteur about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104146	Thank you. Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104159	Thank you. Sexual harassment has been discussed since women entered the labour market, and this is a major discussion. Because we cannot accept harassment on the Danish labour market and on the Danish jobs. That is why I am also pleased that both employers and employees, trade unions and trade unions have both historically, but also at the moment, been very involved in the debate on sexual harassment in the workplace. Much has been done so far, especially with a focus on prevention, and sexual harassment is already prohibited if anyone is in doubt. Now we're taking another step. Because it has turned out that we have not got far enough in combating sexual harassment in our jobs. We need more focus and, in general, more information about sexual harassment in the workplace and, of course, the Left would like to support that. That is why I am also very pleased that, while we are reviewing the notice on the execution of work, the Labour Inspectorate has their guidance on sexual harassment. This will help to spread more knowledge about sexual harassment for the benefit of both employers and workers. A strengthened focus and dissemination of knowledge does not, however, do so alone. The average level of compensation in cases of sexual harassment at work has not been adjusted over the past many years and this is unsustainable. That is why I also welcome the fact that the reimbursement cases are being brought more up to date with this bill, and we in the Left welcome that. With those words, I must inform you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104354	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104359	We're backing up. Then I told you. But I'm wondering something. When you make a bill trying to make it more up-to-date, why not do it up-to-date, why not follow inflation? It has gone from the fact that sexual harassment is much cheaper today than it was 25 years ago to the fact that it is a little less cheaper than sexual harassment was 25 years ago. Isn't that nonsense, why not just follow inflation? If you say 40,000 now, you can say that it costs exactly the same to expose an employee to sexual harassment as it did 25 years ago, and if you go a little higher, you actually say that you are serious and that it should actually be a little more expensive to expose an employee to sexual harassment than it was 25 years ago. Now and here you are actually watering down your own proposal. Why don't you put the tariff up a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104452	Members should remember that direct indictment is not used. Rasmus Horn Langhoff I'm sorry).
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104456	Thank you and thank you for the question from the rapporteur. I think that the rapporteur should also point out to viewers and others that it is not the Folketing that decides the final compensation in such cases. It's the courts. Today, we are sending out a strong signal that we want to increase the remuneration, but it is the courts that ultimately decide such cases, and there may well be higher compensation in the individual case than the amounts mentioned today. What we are proposing here is then an increase of one third over the current level, and I think that is a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104530	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104532	Well, that's just I don't understand why you only take half a step instead of taking a whole step. So just follow inflation, that's the call from here, and then add a little extra. In my second question, I would like to hear what the Left will do to strengthen the prevention efforts, because we do agree that the best thing is that these things never happen. But it does not disappear on its own; it only disappears if we make better prevention efforts, so let me hear the visions and plans of the Left for it. I myself have presented the visions of social democracy and the trade union movement about indirect objective responsibility, and I would like to hear some Left visions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104614	There was something in my first reply that I did not have time to comment on. We can discuss in committee whether we have the right level of compensation, but we should just bear in mind that, as far as I know, the Social Democratic Party has been involved in setting compensation in a large number of other areas in the field of justice, so that is not something that we are doing in isolation in this area, and that does not have any consequences elsewhere, because it may well have. The social democracy must also come to this realization. Then, of course, it is a matter of strengthening prevention in general. And I welcome the fact that the Labour Inspectorate is also reviewing their regulation, because it can help to strengthen prevention and prevent sexual harassment even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104659	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104703	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and for his detailed answers. Does the rapporteur accept the scale of the problem? Does the rapporteur recognise that in the vast majority of cases where a woman denounces sexual harassment at work, she is the one who ends up leaving the workplace? Is this an issue which the rapporteur is aware of and which the rapporteur recognises?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104727	I certainly think that this is a serious issue we are talking about today, and I must be the first to deplore cases of sexual harassment. That is also why today, with this draft law, we are clarifying Section 4 of the Equal Treatment Act, which means that no emphasis should be placed on the wage scale in the workplace when assessing whether there has been sexual harassment. It has been an element which has meant that, in cases where sexual harassment should have been convicted, there has simply not been convicted of sexual harassment. And I'm glad we're tightening up with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104808	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104810	Thank you. If the rapporteur acknowledges this and the problem that it is actually the injured person who is going to leave the workplace, how is it that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party do not take a stand, in that we combine it with compensation for unspeakable dismissal according to the rules of the Civil Service Act, or that we do so in accordance with labour law practice and prove the unjustified dismissal of specially protected employees, for example. pregnant, barren, handicapped, etc.? These are some of the proposals that are being put forward, precisely because it is such a major problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104849	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104850	As I also replied to the Social Democrat rapporteur, I am open to discussing whether we have hit the right level of compensation. However, as I have said, it is ultimately the courts that set the level, so there may well be allowances at a higher level than the level we have mentioned here in the Chamber today, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104912	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments. The next one is sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116104925	If you don't like the smell of the bakery, you'll have to find another place to be. • If you do not like the smell of the bakery, you must find another place to be • unfortunately is a phrase which characterises too many jobs in Denmark and which is too much used to neglect sexism and sexual harassment. According to the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work, sexual harassment is even an increasing problem, a problem that is destructive to the individual and expensive to society, every time a woman in particular is subjected to sexual harassment. We must take this very seriously, and this requires that we not only ensure a secure psychological working environment, but that we also dare to address the debate on the fundamental challenge of men having a very difficult time respecting women's borders. We see that in nightlife, we see it in schools, we see it in workplaces and in many other places, and we, like Parliament, have a very special responsibility to speed up a change in culture as soon as possible, so that no one is subjected to sexual harassment, either at work or in private life. This bill is a small step in the right direction, but in the Enhedslisten we do not think it can stand alone. It is absolutely absurd that a sexist culture in a workplace today can justify degradation and harassment without any consequences. Therefore, it is also very good that the tone at work with this bill can no longer be used as an excuse for harassment. It is also very good to increase the compensation, but that does not solve the problem in itself. Sexual harassment must never become the responsibility of the individual. Sexual harassment is a health and safety issue and therefore the employer's responsibility. The employer, just as when it comes to the physical working environment, must ensure the well-being of employees and prevent sexual harassment. The Enhedslisten, the Social Democratic Party and a large part of the trade union movement have proposed introducing indirect objective employer responsibility, which places responsibility for a safe psychological working environment without sexual harassment with the employer through clear personnel policies. In this way, the psychological working environment will not be the responsibility of the individual employee, and the employer will be charged with the regulatory responsibility to prevent the smell in the bakery from being something that all employees can be in. In the Enhedslisten we support the bill, but there should therefore be no doubt that we are far from achieving it. We will continue to press for an end to all sexism and sexual harassment, which is unfortunately widespread in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105158	Thank you to the rapporteur. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105208	In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we also believe that sexual harassment is totally unacceptable. It is immensely unworthy to overstep one's boundaries in the workplace; it creates an extreme lack of equal worth. That is why it is also good that the proposal will pay it harder. And by the way, you shouldn't be able to hide behind the fact that that's just the tone at this workplace. Having said that, we must, of course, also pay attention to the balance of this. There are a lot of people who meet their boyfriend or spouse at work. Approximations, which are sometimes misunderstood, take place at all workplaces. So in the zeal to fight sexual harassment, we just have to have this in mind... the goal must not be such sterile jobs where romantic relationships cannot and cannot arise and where there can be no funny remark. But, of course, we support the proposal and, like the other rapporteurs, we are also interested in ending the sexual harassment that is quite clearly taking place out there. So the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105314	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105316	That sounds good. I just want to ask whether the Liberal Alliance agrees with the Minister for Employment, as in the discussion about whether it should be even higher than the DKK 33 000 planned, says: if there are good arguments for going higher, then I will not be opposed to it. Does the Liberal Alliance agree with that? So, if there are good arguments, such as inflation arguments or other good arguments, you will not be opposed to putting it higher than the DKK 33.000.?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105348	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff must still remember that you do not address directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105354	Yes, the Liberal Alliance agrees with the Minister, because we think it is a fair argument to say that there has been an inflation regulation which means that it costs less de facto if you are convicted of sexual harassment today than 25 years ago. I think that is a good and valid point. So, yes, we share the Minister's opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105420	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105428	Well, then I don't have any more questions. Then I'm just looking forward to getting it straightened out.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105432	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105433	Thank you to the rapporteur for that. Thank you very much, too, for the rapporteur's comment on the question raised by Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. My question is: does the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party believe that it is your own responsibility whether you are subjected to sexual harassment in a workplace and how it is handled, or does the employer also have a responsibility to protect you from a work environment that can expose you to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105501	I believe that this is a shared responsibility. I believe that the employer has a responsibility for the framework of a workplace. This also applies to what the usual tone of the workplace is. There you have as a leader a responsibility. So I clearly believe that you have a responsibility as a manager, as a company, as a workplace. I also think it is important in this debate that we also talk about this at the back of the metoo movement, that it is okay to say no, and that it is a very good thing that we are starting to say no. So I would be sorry to say that this is only about the employer, because I think it is really important that we have taken the debate that women in particular should resign.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105543	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105545	Thank you, I'm glad to hear that. Does this mean that the rapporteur also believes that we should look at whether there should be an extended objective responsibility for the employer, just as we should of course take an extended personal responsibility, because the challenges we have today are so extensive that we need to tighten this up with the employer in order to ensure the legal situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105610	I really think this is a difficult issue. I think we should sit down in committee and discuss whether we can be more precise as to whether we can do more to stem sexual harassment. But I cannot stand here and decide where the cut should be in relation to the responsibility, but I think it is very good to have it discussed in the subsequent committee readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105640	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116105657	Thank you for that, President. The question is whether this amendment of the law will actually bring about the change of practice that is the purpose of the amendment of the law. It is, of course, very good that the government wants to add one third more to the compensation, but one thing, as previous rapporteurs and especially the Social Democrat rapporteur have stressed, is that it is not good enough at all in relation to the inflation we have had, another is that it is not good enough to address the cultural change that we need in Denmark either. The LO, which has also been mentioned earlier, has, of course, made an excellent proposal for an extended objective responsibility, and we support this in the Alternative precisely because it is the responsibility of the workplace to ensure a good and safe working environment for women. Experience has shown that it is a culture that permeates not only Denmark but the whole world. Even in my position as a member of the Folketing, I have addressed colleagues, among others. a male colleague who, in his capacity as a member of the Folketing, inter alia: has said to a woman: only women and parrots speak, men speak. For me, it just says that we're all a product of this culture that we need to fix. So we support the need for increased objective responsibility. We also support the fact that the Factory Inspectorate must be given greater opportunity to help, that is to say. More resources are being allocated. But we also believe that we need to have more education in this area. This means that we must already begin to change the culture of children, young people through sex education, gender education, equality and diversity. Today, the pedagogic seminar is the only educational institution in Denmark which has gender, equality and diversity on the school curriculum. Unfortunately, this is the first year when students are relatively young and may not be able to relate to how they should use these tools. But we have to spread it out to all those who have educational responsibility in Denmark, all permanent employees, and make sure that they also contribute to our having decent standards, that we have decent cultural values, that we support the need for gender equality, and that, on the day they enter the labour market, people are able to live up to these new values and ideas. So this bill is certainly a recognition that we need to make a change, and I also recognise that the Minister is willing to look at whether the remuneration is high enough. In addition, however, we also need to introduce increased objective responsibility for employers, and we need to have standards and behaviour-altering practices, and this must be done through our teaching. So there are, in fact, some proposals that I will be putting forward in this Chamber later this year regarding the teaching of permanent staff and how we can ensure that they are prepared to train us in this change of standards and culture. I hope that will be welcomed. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110025	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. It doesn't look like he's here. Then we'll skip him and give the floor to Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110044	It must always be safe to go to work. Sexual harassment is unprecedented, and it destroys a healthy working environment. Preventive work must lie more in the health and safety organizations and, as the LO proposes, also by extending the law to include the introduction of rules on extended objective liability. Harassment and abuse undermine self-confidence and make people insecure and afraid, and it can end with stress and disease reports. And for many people, the experiences set themselves many years after the harassment. The level of compensation is completely hollowed out by inflation, and it needs to be adjusted upwards, and for SF's sake it may be a marked further upwards. Sexual harassment must be answered with a singing slap, and in this context, in other words politically, it is through an economic punishment that can be felt.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110159	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Conservative rapporteur is not here and then we go to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110205	Thank you. Let me begin by expressing my thanks for the many constructive comments that have been made on the draft law, and which will, of course, also come to light, I believe, to form the basis for a very good committee procedure. This whole proposal also covers the fact that for many years we have not really dealt with, among other things. the level of compensation, at least not actively. With the bill, the government has wanted to send out a clear and clear signal that sexual harassment in the workplace is totally unacceptable. We have made it very clear with the bill that the equal treatment law already has a ban on sexual harassment and that this ban falls within the duty of employers to give men and women equal working conditions. However, we have also wanted to put an end to the part of the case law that has set the bar for what is sexual harassment, depending on whether there was a very informal tone in the workplace. And that is certainly also, I think, a very important clarification that is taking place here. It cannot and should not be the case that as an employee one should just be able to tolerate a bad or even insulting tone. An informal tone of association must not be an excuse for offending behavior. At the same time, we propose to follow the same increase in the level of compensation in cases of sexual harassment as in the Justice Minister's fair trial, which was adopted earlier this year with broad political support. And that is the reason for the answer to the question asked by Rasmus Horn Langhoff as to whether to consider an even higher remuneration • so that it is in order to ensure a parallelity in relation to what is applicable in the area of the Minister of Justice. I look forward to the committee reading of this bill, which will certainly also bring about a clear improvement in relation to the rules that are in force today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110411	There are some brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110415	On 7 September, the Minister said that if there are good arguments for going higher than the 33,000 kroner, then I am not going to say it now as a quote that is going to oppose it. Now we're all waiting with excitement. Have the good arguments been there, such as the inflation argument, which is about the fact that it should cost you the same thing to engage in sexual harassment or to be convicted of it, because unfortunately most people are free today, as it did 25 years ago? Is that a good argument, which means that the Minister will not object to going higher?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110502	I do not think there is any reason to make a big controversy about the whole issue. I am, in fact, willing to discuss this issue in committee as well. But I would also like to stress that if you have felt that it has been very important to do something about this area, it is a little strange that it has not happened under the former Socialist-led government, which had a very clear profile, I had to understand, but which unfortunately did not do anything about this issue. That is why I think that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff should also recognise that there is now clear progress. I am quite willing to discuss whether the level of compensation should be raised further, although it must then also have an influence on what is applicable to the Minister for Justice, but of course this deserves a discussion, and it will not be I who opposes that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110549	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110553	I love posts that start with: Let's not become polemical and then you become polemical yourself. It's not without a sense of humor. Thank you, Minister. We all know in here that there are, among other things. is a new, comprehensive research project from Aalborg University that prepares it. I also assume that it is on the basis of the research project that the government is now responding, that is to say, because there are simply these data which show both in relation to the • what can be called the discount scheme that has been in relation to the round tone, but also in relation to the level of compensation. Then acknowledge that, Minister, that there is some new data here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110630	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110632	That's where I think sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff forgets that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff himself had summoned me in consultation on this subject, and already at that time he was, and it was a long time ago, I think that it was perhaps a year ago that I expressed the political desire to raise the level of compensation. Of course we also have to listen to research and also new research, but it is, I think, six months ago that we had a long discussion of it on the basis of an equal opportunities conference which the then Minister for Gender Equality and I myself had called in Eigveds Pakhus, I think it was 9 April, where this theme was also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110709	Yes, please. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110716	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the answer to questions. The Minister talks about Eigtveds Pakhus, and I think it was 9 April too. I think it is a great pity that it is not recognised that the compensation we are talking about now is for women to have tolerated the violation and perhaps the culture of violation if we can speak without being completely afraid of the existence of the labour market. That is fine, but it does not say what they lose in lost earnings because the vast majority of them end up leaving the workplace because it is simply too taboo to talk about it. It is not only the latest research from Aalborg University that tells us. It is also a lot of research from abroad that tells about the same problem. So is the Minister interested in us also discussing whether or not we should equate it with unjustified dismissal under labour law rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110822	I fully agree with the alternative rapporteur that this is a very serious matter and deserves more political attention than it has had in the past. That is also why we have taken several initiatives, and I can only say that here today. We had a very well-visited conference on 9 April in Eigtveds Pakhus, where a large number of things were under discussion, including the level of compensation. It is not the case that one should say that one can pay off from making an unacceptable act in no way. Therefore, we must also have even greater focus on the issue of prevention, gender patterns, many other things that the Minister of Gender Equality is working on, but if it is the case that the rapporteur of the Alternative will discuss this reversal of the burden of proof and whether that is what one should introduce, then I myself am very sceptical about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110919	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116110925	Thank you for the framing of the reverse burden of proof. It's often we talk about it. I almost have to say that I have directed one of the Minister's colleagues from the Left to speak to a woman who was not a member of the Folketing on a plane during this period: it is only women and parrots who talk; men speak. I told him that this is unacceptable behaviour for a member of the Folketing. Does the Minister not think that it is the employer's responsibility to ensure that there is a tolerable environment for the employees and all the other citizens who are in contact with this environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111013	Yeah, I mean one hundred percent. I hope that the rapporteur for the alternative has not heard me say anything other than that we need to be better at prevention. In fact, we are now proposing to make it clear that we should not allow ourselves to have an informal tone. That's what's part of this bill. So that is a clear improvement, in relation to what is applicable today, also in relation to the level of compensation. I have to say that I am not in a position to comment on what has happened on an aircraft. Well, how am I supposed to be able to do that? I can't and I won't do it. So I think this is a clear improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111049	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111057	It is good that the Minister is saying that this is a serious matter which also requires prevention, because there is nothing in this draft law that is going to create any kind of prevention. Now I am a little new in here, so it would be nice to hear the Minister about what is in pipeline in relation to the prevention of sexual harassment and a safe psychological working environment at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111120	Now allow me to say what I have said several times, namely that we took part in this very well-visited meeting on 9 April in Eigtveds Pakhus, where we discussed the whole follow-up to the metoo campaign, and that, in the light of that meeting, we were discussing, among other things, the follow-up to the metoo campaign. has taken the initiative to write to companies around and point out that it is unacceptable to expose women to sexual harassment too. In addition, however, the Minister for Gender Equality is also working on a wide range of initiatives to help further focus on this field. And if you want a very clear explanation of that, I think I should send it in writing, since I am not the Minister for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111205	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111208	I will look forward to seeing what is actually in the pipeline. I do not think there are companies and business owners who do not know that sexual harassment is unacceptable. But it is also very clear that the smell in the bakery must always be the responsibility of employers. And that is why I really would like to hear the Minister's position on introducing indirect objective employer responsibility, so that the employer has to prove and guarantee that everything has been done to ensure that in the psychological working environment there is no sexual harassment, just as we know it in relation to the physical working environment, where the employer also has responsibility for what the other employees are doing in the workplace.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111253	I would be happy to overlook, both what has been in the pipeline, what has been taken of initiatives in which I myself have been involved, and what is being considered to be taken by initiatives forward-looking by both the Minister for Gender Equality and, for that matter, myself as Minister for Employment. And I have not yet come to the conclusion in any way that the burden of proof should be reversed. On the contrary, I believe that this draft law creates a much better legal position than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111324	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111348	The debate is open. First, the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111354	With motion for a resolution B 18, which we will be dealing with today, the Enhedslisten will raise the daily allowance rate, maintain the state contribution of its members at the current level and halve the contribution of its members for persons under 25 years of age. This should ensure that employees are assured that the value of the daily allowance does not fall. I would like to make it clear from the start of the debate that we already have a very good daily allowance system, which we can be proud of today. When it comes to security, it is precisely the cornerstone of the large and broad benefit agreement that the government has concluded with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, on the basis of the overall recommendations of the Daily Benefits Commission. I would also like to make it clear in my introduction that the government does not intend to break with the agreement on rate regulation, which ensures that we can take extra care of some of the most vulnerable citizens in our society. After all, it is an agreement which all parties except Enhedslisten will support and which dates back to 1990. Moreover, the government does not intend to break with the 2012 tax agreement of the former SRSF government. The agreement includes, inter alia: a lower level of regulation, which means that the economic gap between employment and transfer income will rise towards 2025. This means that working pays better, and the government can only back that up. But let me elaborate on a number of the points. Overall, we have a good and attractive benefit system which provides workers with an economic safety net for unemployment and the unemployed with a clear incentive to get to work. At the same time, it is a benefit system that we have improved in recent years, with the clear aim of creating peace and security for the daily allowance. A very broad majority in the Danish Parliament has found a good balance between security and the necessary incentive to take up a job on the basis of the recommendations of the Danish Parliamentary Commission. We now also see that much less than in the past, their right to benefit is being used up. In the first half of 2017, 102 people used up their daily allowance rights on average per week, which is significantly less than in the past, where, for example, it was 585 on average per week in the first half of 2013. This is very positive and must include, among other things: can be seen in the light of the fact that from 2 January 2017 it was possible to extend the period of daily allowance flexibly for up to 1 additional year. The increased incentive to take up employment during the benefit period has helped to strengthen the safety of the unemployed and mobility in the Danish labour market, and this benefits not only employees and employers but also society in general. As I said, the new and secure benefit system is based on recommendations from the benefit commission, where the social partners were represented. The benefit commission examined, inter alia: the level of compensation. They found that over the last few decades there has been no erosion of the daily allowance and hence no financial security in the benefit system, and most importantly in this context, it is that the level of compensation for the lowest-paid has not decreased; this is also clear from the report of the benefit commission. We must remember that the level of compensation depends on how much one earns; that is almost self-evident. The level of compensation for a person with an income of just over DKK 22,500. is 90%. For a person with an income of DKK 50,000. It's barely 40 per cent a month. The lowest paid have at least to themselves and can therefore maintain a benefit close to the previous income. I believe that we have a solid financial safety net under the workers. Four out of five are today also members of an A-box. In my view, this testifies to the fact that our benefit system remains very attractive. Danish employees have not turned their backs on the benefit system. On the contrary, the number of members in the cashiers has increased over the last ten years. Nor is it the case that fewer people dare change jobs. In fact, new figures show that job turnover has never been higher • 427.993 times jobs have been changed in Denmark from January to June in 2018; this is the highest number ever. A broad majority in the Folketing decided for the first time in 1990 and by 2012, when the Social Democracy, the Radical Left and the SF sat in government, to let rates rise more slowly than wages. The rate regulation ensures that funds are allocated to the rate pool so that we can take extra care of some of the vulnerable citizens in our society. This is not an agreement that the government intends to run away from. Nor does the Government intend to run from the 2012 tax agreement as it ensures that it is better worth working and thus also contributes to growth and prosperity in Denmark. There are several important reasons why the government cannot support the resolution. One thing is economics. The proposal will require a minimum of 2.7 billion. kr. annual to finance an unemployment benefit system which is basically attractive and which Danish employees support. Nor has the proposal taken a position on whether or not, for example, there is a need for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. Sickness benefit, maternity benefit and other benefits normally related to the benefit rate must also be increased accordingly, since in that case the total cost of the proposal will be significantly higher. The proposal will also have a very negative impact on employment, as up to 7,300 more full-time people will be on unemployment benefit rather than on the labour market. This is not something that this government can support in any way. Nor do we intend to break two important agreements, which a broad majority in the Folketing is behind, which both take care of our most vulnerable citizens and ensure that working is better worthwhile.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111938	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116111945	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. The Minister's attitude is not entirely surprising to me, but would the Minister not like to comment on the measurement made by the LO among its members, which shows that it is only 15%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. Forty-five percent. considers that it does not provide the necessary security. It could be a signal that something might be wrong somewhere, even though the Minister is trying to present it as if there are no problems. I would like to ask the Minister to confirm that the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten can be implemented without breaking with the settlement of the rate pool regulation and without breaking the tax agreement entered into by the SRSF government with the bourgeois parties in 2012. I would like the Minister to confirm this, because there is nothing in this proposal that requires that these agreements be broken up. Another question to the Minister No, it has to wait), I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112057	The first question was whether LO members feel that the benefit system could be better than it is today. And I do not have that study completely topical in my memory, but it is probably not unnatural that you would like to have better terms than the conditions that apply today. I think most people, if they were asked, would be able to answer yes to that. I believe that the system is good and fair, and in fact I think that we have just a benefit system that encourages both those who have the lowest income and ensure a high level of compensation for those people, but at the same time also ensures that there is an incentive to work. And that is precisely the challenge of the proposal put forward by Finn Sørensen, that is to say that there are over 7 000 people who will no longer actually have an incentive to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112155	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112159	I guess there was also an incentive to work when the benefit coverage was significantly better than it is today. I asked the Minister: will the Minister confirm that this proposal can be implemented without compromising the agreements and breaking the agreements reached on the pool of rates and the 2012 tax reform? The second question is: can the Minister state whether the regulation of the maximum rate of benefit is settled because that is what the proposal is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112229	Thank you. I have to ask that the listeners be kind enough to sit down........ you shouldn't fall off the rail. You can photograph, but you have to sit down. Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112233	Thank you. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to give Mr. Finn Sørensen an adequate written answer to the two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112249	Thank you. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. It's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112301	I would like to make it clear that I can easily understand that the LO and some other trade unions are going out with a desire for a higher daily allowance rate. They have to do so if they think it is a problem, and they think that the daily allowance is too low. They think so, and it is also part of their task to send such signals to their members. I also believe that most of us here, including ourselves, have to admit that unemployment benefits have been eroded over the ages, and thus also somewhat lower, compared to what they made up of wages before. That is why I think it is an extremely important debate to take. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for taking the debate. I also have to say how important it is to have a secure benefit system that you can count on, with cash benefits that you can live on and where you can re-establish as quickly as possible. A very insecure daily allowance system was created in 2010 by the then bourgeois government, which we fortunately had changed. It was a system where too many fell out and where it was really, really hard to get back in. It was actually a really insecure system. We did this better through a new agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party in 2015, where we just created a more secure unemployment benefit system, a system that you can count on and where it is easier to reclaim for a new period. It is a system which the trade union movement also supported, because they themselves were involved in it in the form of the Daily Money Commission. It is also a completely different system that we have created. It is technically a very difficult system, of course, we have found out, and then it is also the case that the last changes have not actually entered into force in October this year. That's why we also believe that we need this new and completely different reform to work. In fact, I think it is a good reform in many ways before we start making new initiatives. The fact that we are voting against this resolution is not due to the fact that we think it is wrong, nor to the fact that we do not think that the daily allowance rate could easily be higher, but there are two things in particular that do so. Firstly, a resolution should not propose such major changes as these, which cost so much money. It's all wrong. It needs to be discussed and settled properly. After all, the Minister has already pointed out some things that are lacking, with some services that turned out to be higher. And I have no doubt that the Enhedslisten will then later come and say that we should bring that too. So such a thing must be properly worked out and not just put forward in a motion for a resolution. It is not right to make politics like that. It is much better to sit around a table and then rain it all through. Secondly, we are also involved in a conciliation, and that is where things have to change; that is where we have the opportunity to count on things; that is where we have the opportunity to look at it properly and make some proper policy. I would also like to say that the Social Democratic Party will always be the guarantor of a good and secure benefit system. That's why we went into it the last time. We have gone in and taken responsibility, we have entered into the conciliation so that we can make sure that the daily allowance does not deteriorate further, as it has to pass us before further changes or savings are made. After all, the government has wanted to see a deterioration in the graduation service before, and I must know the government really, really badly if there are no further proposals after the next election if it is re-elected. I know, among other things, that the Minister for Finance has announced on several occasions that there have been some new notes this morning that more reforms will be needed, and here I am still very concerned that there will also be a change in the whole benefit system. Personally, I am very pleased that the Social Democratic Party is involved in the cash settlement as a stop-block and can ensure that there are no further deteriorations. In those words, we recognise the problem. I'm discussing this a lot with the trade union movement. I keep a very close eye on it, and I am very much debating it, and I think we should continue to do so, but we are voting against the proposal for the reasons I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112652	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112655	I must confess that I am somewhat disappointed in that answer. In connection with the opening of the Folketing, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the chairman of the rapporteur, said that this issue was a very relevant issue which she would very much like to discuss. I don't feel very keen to discuss this. The nearest we come is a recognition that there is a problem with the level of coverage of unemployment benefits. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what will the rapporteur do about it when he clearly wants to deposit his decision-making power with the Left and Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and the other conciliation parties he is part of? Apparently, he sees it in this way that he is involved in a conciliation on this matter. How will the rapporteur ever do anything about this? We have been told clearly by the Minister that there is no problem, so how will the rapporteur do something about it if he acknowledges that the problem is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112757	Let me tell you, sir. Finn Sørensen something. Sir. Finn Sørensen doesn't have the chance to change anything in this society, for Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen is not in a settlement. That's the way it is when you as Enhedslisten just want to shout out loud and take no responsibility. In fact, when you are in a settlement, you have the opportunity to change some things, and we have helped to change some pretty good things in the area of unemployment benefits, among other things. In relation to the supplementary allowance for voluntary firemen, and it is not possible to do so if, as Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten choose to stand outside and shout. You can do that if you are in a settlement, and that is what we have chosen. That is why it is not just a government settlement; it is also a conciliation in which we have the opportunity to make some changes. It is a good thing that you always agree with your party chairman, because if you read this proposal carefully, you will see that in other words I have said that this is a relevant issue and I have said that I would like to discuss it and debate it, and I do so on an ongoing basis with the trade union movement. So it is nice that I can say from the platform that I fully agree with my party chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112855	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112859	It is absolutely true that Finn Sørensen and his party do not have the great opportunity to change anything in society by the majority in the Folketing, but it may be that it changes. When we had a majority together, it turned out that we could change some things, including in this area. So of course we can do so if the political will is there, but that is what we have some doubts about, because the rapporteur recognises that there is a problem, but at the same time he says that this is something we are discussing with the trade union movement and that this is something we are discussing with the conciliation parties. However, the head of the conciliation parties, the Minister, has just stated clearly that there is no problem here that is worth dealing with. How, then, will the rapporteur change anything along with the conciliation parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112940	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116112944	You can say that you have no opportunity to change anything, but you can also say that you do not want to. I think it's the last one. It is the case that when you enter into agreements it also requires you to take some responsibility, but Enhedslisten does not always want to do so, but they want to spend money, and we see that time and time again. I just have to say that we are sticking to that agreement, because we think it is very good that we are in the benefit agreement, because unlike the Enhedslisten, we can actually change something, because that is what we are for. That is the difference between Enhedslisten and Social Democracy; we take responsibility; we want to change society.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113013	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113025	Thank you for that, President. I actually thought it was a rather exciting debate that was here between Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen and Mr. Finn Sørensen. It then gives thought to what is going to happen after an election if it happens that the Social Democracy comes to power with the Enhedslisten as a support party. It's gonna be a bit of a difficult task and uphill. Maybe that's why, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says he's sticking to the conciliation parties in this area. That is probably also very sensible. Having said that, we in the Danish People's Party can see that there are some problems in this matter of daily allowances. Among other things: I have said myself that it is a major problem that they get 0.3 per cent. less than wage developments. It is, after all, a major problem which has been there since the 1990s. I'll give you that angle, sir. Finn Sørensen is absolutely right. It's a huge problem. That is also why we are looking at pensions in the financial law negotiations. It may also be that we should look at this with the allowance, but that requires that the parties on the rate pool also agree that it is a good idea to remove that agreement. When it was made in the 1990s, the Danish People's Party was non-existent, so we didn't share in saying that we should take those 0.3 percent. We agree to distribute them, because we think that when they are there, we should also be involved in looking at how they are to be used, but we're ready to see if you could remove it, that these 0.3 per cent. It is being taken so that it is going to follow the wage trend and there is also an increase in the rates. But that is the problem, because it requires agreement that the pool agreement should be terminated, and there is no indication that this will happen, at least not right now or in the near future. Whether it will be in the future, I can't say. We also have an agreement on the daily allowances, and this is a trialogue in which the LO itself has been involved in looking at how to create a new benefit system. Then I know that Mr. Finn Sørensen will say that we helped to change it back in 2010. That is absolutely right, but it was not the movement itself that we changed. It was some other things that were changed. However, the fact that an agreement has been made on a benefit system, which the Danish People's Party supports completely, does not mean that we cannot in the benefit board see if there is a relevant issue. However, I would also like to say, as the previous rapporteur said, that this is an excessive issue to address in a motion for a resolution, with a consumption of 2.7 billion. kr. These are other places to find out where the money should come from than just in a motion for a resolution. I also think, when you look at how developments have been, that it is important to make it clear that one of the important things and one of the important elements of the future labour market is, and remains, that both the cashiers and the job centres are doing what they can to match the unemployed to a job. After all, it is not the case that you have to reach out for the fact that you now have to go on unemployment benefits, and that is the case. Nor does anyone want that forever and ever. I don't suppose so, but it has to be the case that a lot of effort is being made. If someone has been on unemployment benefits for a long time, then you have to do what you can to match them and give them the qualification for a job that employers are shouting and screaming for. Only yesterday I also heard that Danish Industry in North Jutland had at least said that one of the ways to help was to upgrade the unemployed to these jobs. Then you get away from the cash benefits. So we can say: is it not just the case that employers should get started helping to train the unemployed so that the unemployed can get away from the benefits? Because that's the way we're going. However, we cannot support the resolution as it stands here, especially with the funding that is involved in finding 2.7 billion. kr. It is in the context of a Finance Act or other major negotiations that we must find the means to do so if we are to change the coverage of the benefit system. If you could get started saying that now you stop cutting wages by 0.3 per cent, it was a step in the right direction. But I shall not be able to say here whether it is possible. But we will then look at what can be done in the future. Time's up, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113538	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113544	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for something clearer than the previous speakers to recognise that we have a problem. This could give some hope that the Danish People's Party will then help solve this problem. I just have to say to the Danish People's Party that this does not require agreement with the wagering parties. It doesn't. Nor does it require agreement with the parties in the tax reform 2012. For what the proposal is about is compensating for the deterioration caused by the two regulatory mechanisms, which I actually believe the rapporteur agrees with the criticism. This is compensated by raising the maximum daily allowance rate. That is what this proposal, in its simplicity yesterday, is all about. It can be done independently of it. As far as funding is concerned, it is a relevant discussion and it is very much in favour of participating in Enhedslisten. I do not see why it should be left to the gamble parties or the finance parties. If some parties can find funding for a proposal and implement it in this Chamber, then we will. So I'm open to that. But is the Danish People's Party open for us to sit down and try to find funding that our two parties can agree on for a start?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113702	Where to start? I fully agree with what the proposal is about, and what I am referring to in the rate pool are these 0.3%. less in relation to wage developments, what to say is the increase and increase in the benefit rate is 0.3 per cent. less. It does not fully follow wage developments. That's actually what's in there. Where you find the money, sir. Finn Sørensen's right, you're not interested. But I do not really see that it makes sense that the Danish People's Party should sit down with Enhedslisten and try to find out how we are making the funding in connection with the proposal that Mr. Finn Sørensen has put forward, when I said earlier, that if you are going to do this task, it will be in a wider circle, and that will be in the context of the financial law negotiations. It will be with the parties supporting the cash benefits settlement. That's where we're gonna have to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113804	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113807	I don't know what to think about it. Because if you have the political will, you will probably enter into negotiations with the parties that have the same purpose as you have, and then you may be able to get a majority on the way. After all, we are not quite finished with the rapporteur's series, and it may be that others want to be in it. But then I have to ask the rapporteur something. Because he is right to criticise this rate-pooling regulation and to say that there is no prospect of this conciliation being terminated. The Danish People's Party can make sure of that. The Danish People's Party can then terminate the bet pool settlement before the upcoming parliamentary elections. There's a clean table around it. Then we can have a clean and sensible debate on the totally unfair regulation and, in fact, down-regulation of transfer income. So why doesn't the Danish People's Party just do that? Why don't you give up on that bet pool deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113853	Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113856	This is probably due to the fact that Enhedslisten and Mr. Finn Sørensen doesn't understand. Because if the Danish People's Party resigns from the bet pool settlement, it doesn't give a majority for this. There is still a majority behind the bet pool. After all, this requires a large majority to resign from the pool of rates, so that there is no majority for the pool of rates. And I don't see that that has been set up, and as long as there isn't, the Danish People's Party will of course be in the wager pool settlement to help distribute the funds. If it gets to where the parties behind the bet pool say that now we have to shut this down, then it's fine, but it doesn't change anything about the fact that the Danish People's Party should go out and say that we step out of the bet pool settlement. We can't cancel the settlement. We can only say that we have then stepped out of the pool of rates settlement, and that does not change anything about it. Then we are back at the status quo as it was before Dansk Folkeparti joined the bet pool settlement. There is still a majority to take the 0.3%. of the transfer income, whether the Danish People's Party is involved in a settlement or not in a settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116113953	With that, we thank Mr. Bent Bøgsted, and then we welcome Mr. Bøgsted. Hans Andersen, the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114002	Thank you. I can, in fact, be relatively brief. In the Left, we cannot agree with the motion for a resolution on raising the daily allowance rate to 2025, as proposed by the Enhedslisten here today. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, I believe that we have a secure and attractive benefit system in Denmark, and this is a system that we have improved several times in recent years. Among other things, it has. This means that fewer people are now losing the right to benefit, and that is a very good thing. Secondly, it is absolutely crucial for the Left that it should pay off to work. It is one of the cornerstones of our society, and it is something we in the Left are defending. This is particularly true in a situation where Danish companies are shouting louder and higher for labour. So there is no point in reducing the incentives for the unemployed to get to work and increasing the incentive to move to unemployment benefit. Because that will be the consequence of raising the daily allowance rate. For example, calculations from the Ministry of Finance show this clearly. Employment will fall, and that will cost the Treasury dearly, and we are not in the Left. Thirdly, I basically do not share the concerns of the Enhedslisten. In Denmark, as I have said, we have an attractive, secure and flexible benefit system, a system in which we have fileted the edges to the round in recent years, where a large, broad majority in the Folketing has supported the changes we have made to the benefit system, and on that basis the Left cannot support this resolution. Then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately cannot be present at this debate, and say that they cannot support the proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114201	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114206	Thank you. I should just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that it is no problem that the level of cover for unemployment benefit has fallen, as described by the LO, since the mid-1990s? So far, the value of the daily allowance has decreased by DKK 30,000. on an annual basis, and if you do nothing now and here, it will fall another DKK 15,000. Towards 2025. Does the rapporteur think that this is a problem or is it not a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114241	I think it is important to make it clear that the level of compensation has not fallen for the lowest-paid, and the benefit commission also found that in recent decades there has been no erosion of the daily allowance and hence of the financial security of the benefit system. It's in the Daily Money Commission's report. This is not something I am inventing, but it is what is written in black and white in the Daily Money Commission's report. So I do not find and I do not share the great concern that Enhedslisten has today in relation to the level of unemployment benefit. I believe that we have a level of unemployment benefit which creates a secure and flexible benefit system and which ensures that taking a job also pays off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114334	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114337	What I was asking was the level of coverage and development of the benefits, or rather the settlement of it, since the mid-1990s. That's what's interesting for the cashiers: what do we get for our cashier's quota today compared to what we got for it in the mid-1990s? Well, that's kind of what's interesting. But I understand from the rapporteur that we must now take a view of the benefit system and the benefit coverage that, if only it covers the low-paid or the rapporteur said the lowest-paid, because that is where we are, that is good enough, then it does not matter that the large majority of employees have very, very little coverage. And is it part of the rapporteur's thinking that it is actually very good that this is so, because then it helps to curb wage developments in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114423	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114427	I note that in the parties behind the last daily allowance agreement we added 300 million. kr. In order to make the benefit system more flexible, it is also worth taking a shorter-term job that, if you work such a day at a time, you can thus extend the time you can stay in the benefit system. These are several elements which, I think, make it an even better benefit system than we have seen in the past. Then I do not share the great concern expressed here by Enhedslisten about the fact that support for the benefit system is now disappearing. There is support from a long way, the vast majority of employees in the labour market, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114516	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114521	Thank you. In the Minister's speech, as I heard, the Minister said that one of the arguments for not supporting this was that one would not break a couple of Now we're not part of the 2012 tax settlement... we weren't born yet... but we're part of the wager pool settlement. Finn Sørensen asked whether the Minister felt that it would be a breach of conciliation, since the Minister himself mentioned this as an argument for not going in and supporting this proposal. The Minister replied that this should be replied to in writing. But it is very important for us in the alternative just to get it a little clearer, and I want to hear whether Mr. Hans Andersen can do a little better if I ask the question directly. Mr. Hans Andersen, that it would be a breach of conciliation if you, as a pool participant, went in and supported this motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114619	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114623	I think there are several of us who are looking forward to a written reply from the Minister to this question. It can be uncovered in committee, and I look forward to discussing it in committee. I am not going to stand here and make myself very clever about the detail of the question asked. I also look forward to a written reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114647	With that, we thank Mr. Hans Andersen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114657	Thank you, President. As previous rapporteurs have explained, the proposal here will raise the daily allowance rate, ensure that the daily allowance follows wage developments and make a discount on the contribution to young people under 25 years of age, and it will be financed through higher taxes. In my opinion, the proposal is quite fine, as is the situation in the benefit system in some way between unemployment insurance and social benefits. And, to me, it means, precisely because it is in that voltage field, that there is very little flexibility in the system. It can be said that people with a high income have a low level of coverage with the benefit system we have today, and people with a low income have an excellent level of coverage. But I think that the system is put together so that it becomes a little rigid and a little inflexible for the individual. And if you had to think that if you wanted to have a higher coverage, you could pay a larger contribution, then the system is not geared at all to what it is today. So that's why it gets this a little inflexible size. When people in the Enhedslisten are concerned about the level of cover for unemployment benefits, I would say that this is basically a problem related to the most high-paid, because, as previous speakers have said, the low-paid have such an excellent level of coverage with the current rate of unemployment benefit. But I think it is refreshing to see that Enhedslisten is also interested in the more prosperous. I do not think it would be a surprise for anyone that the Liberal Alliance is opposed to the proposal. We do not think that taxes in our society should be higher, nor do we think that the benefits should be higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114914	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116114920	Thank you. Firstly, it is not only Enhedslisten who is concerned here. That's 45 percent, too. of the members of the LO, and that is because the decrease in the value of the allowance we are talking about is, of course, about an average salary for a LO worker. I have informed you of this here, which none of the other rapporteurs have, as it were, tried to do, and I shall first of all explain what the proposal is about. So it is not about highly paid and wealthy people and what else is used by words. I understand from the rapporteur that she does not believe that there is a problem, and at least will not help to improve the level of benefit. Does the Liberal Alliance have a desire to reduce the coverage of benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115005	No, we really haven't. Our policy is to remove the graduation rate. We do not believe that we should be able to go straight from training and into unemployment benefits. For Enhedslisten it will probably be seen as a deterioration of the system, and that is our policy. A little as I referred to in my rapporteur's speech, we do not really think it is a very good system because it does not offer flexibility and because it cannot take account of the fact that we have different salaries. I don't think it's optimal that we have a system where, if you're high-paid, you're unsure whether it pays for you to take out unemployment insurance because the coverage rate is so low. I do not think that is optimal, but it is also not optimal to simply raise the rate. So as the system is today, it is not flexible and therefore we are not big fans of what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115101	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115105	It is quite clear that if you introduce caring days that is what the rapporteur is talking about, then it is also a deterioration of the system. So, at least thank you for a clear announcement on that point. Then I must begin by congratulating myself on the fact that the Liberal Alliance is obviously not going to propose that the level of cover for unemployment benefits be reduced and then remember that sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115130	Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115133	There was no question, but it is clear that it can easily be seen that it will be perceived as a deterioration of the system. After all, we think that profit principles are sensible, and that is also why we think that as a student we should not go from a taxpayer-funded training course, which has been given su over all the years, directly into a high level of benefit that the daily allowance rate is. In particular, we believe that it is right to get a job first and to earn the right to unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115208	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115215	Thank you. We are, in fact, in the alternative in favour of this proposal, but we do not want to break a compromise. So it is clear that, while we are in the pool of rates, it is of interest to us whether it would be a breach of conciliation to support this. I think I heard the Minister standing here saying that it would mean breaking two conciliations if this were supported. That's how I heard it. And since he is then asked directly whether it is a breach of conciliation, if you support it, it is said that it will be replied to in writing. I think that is extremely unclear and unclear. It is clear that we are not going to break a settlement. I do not think we are doing that either by supporting this, and we are inclined to support it, because we are also concerned about the level of coverage. We are concerned about the erosion of the daily allowance, both the one that came through the tax settlement in 2012 and the one from the rate pool funds. Just when it comes to the pool of rates, we would like to help find another funding for those funds. But there is one thing that is incredibly important to say here: we are not just looking to drop the bet pool settlement and then dash over the many billions that go to vulnerable Danes. Well, we have to find another funding. We can't just shut down the source of projects for those who need it most in this society. As far as this proposal is concerned, we must, of course, look at what is being said about the other rates and sickness benefits, etc. and have talked a little about it and looked at the funding, but as a starting point we are positive about the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution and actually thank you for the debate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115401	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115405	Thank you, and thank you for your support, at least for the intentions of the proposal, and then we will have to look at the position of the alternative in committee. If it turns out that the minister and the conciliation parties maintain that it would be a breach of conciliation if such a proposal were to be supported, how does the rapporteur feel about being involved in a conciliation which prevents the alternative from supporting a proposal that they otherwise think is very good?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115436	That is, of course, the condition of being part of a settlement. We have no problem with that. We take that responsibility, that's the way it is. As soon as we enter into a conciliation agreement, we can also be trusted to comply with the political agreements that lie in that conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115451	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115453	That is fair enough, but there must surely be some reflection if we get there. We can then resume the discussion on that. That must give rise to some reflection. A contribution to a pool of rates, which I assume has been accepted because we want to share in the distribution of some money, and not on the basis of enthusiasm for the way in which that money is being provided, must give rise to reflections. If participation in a conciliation means that as long as that conciliation exists and you are involved in it, you cannot support any proposal which is actually about something else, namely the regulation of the daily allowance in this country, the proposal that we actually think is good as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115532	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115534	I don't know how to say it. You know, when you enter into a settlement, that you cannot vote for things that break that settlement. That's the way it is in every settlement. That's politics. But with regard to that settlement, we have not just gone into it to distribute some money. We've gone into it to change it. We've gone into it to make it better. We have gone into it to prevent tue-politics from happening. We went into this in order to make greater social investment for vulnerable groups. A great deal has been achieved, and I think that the great task will be to find another type of funding. I would say that if we succeed in going in and actively helping to solve the problem of that money coming from transfer incomes, it is one of the greatest political victories I have been involved in, and that is what we are working hard for in the conciliation process.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115616	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115626	Thank you very much. Thank you to Enhedslisten for this draft parliamentary resolution. We are radically opposed to it for several reasons. It is therefore a very large amount of funding that is needed in this proposal of 2.7 billion. kr. annual. There are two agreements which the Radical Left has entered into openly and which we agree with in substance, which also block. And then there is a substantial disagreement about raising the general rates on the level of unemployment benefit. We are still away on unemployment benefits well above, for example. the corresponding Swedish rates and there is still a very fine coverage in the benefit system for low-paid people. So for many reasons and not really in order of priority, I have to say that the Radical Left is against this resolution and will not vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115711	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115714	Thank you. Unfortunately, the answer is not surprising to me, given the history of the Radical Left in the question of the daily allowances. However, I might have hoped that somewhere there was some kind of veneration towards the benefit system and would relate to the fact that, as the LO points out, the value of the benefit has decreased quite significantly since the mid-1990s, and that in some way it will also have a negative impact on the long term and has already been documented, and I shall return to that in the view of the daily allowance insurance system. The rapporteur can of course comment on this, but I would like the rapporteur to explain why this proposal would be contrary to the 2012 tax reform agreement and the 2012 tax reform agreement, as I know, is not even a settlement, but an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115808	Thank you. I am not against this because it would be a breach of conciliation to be in favour of it, but because I essentially agree with the agreements that we have concluded and on which there is conciliation, and that means that when we see this development in the real purchasing power of the daily allowances, it is something that we have entered with open eyes, among other things. when we entered the bet pool settlement. It's not something that comes as a surprise to us. So I do not think it is the conciliation tie that is relevant here. That is a substantial consensus in the agreements that we entered into. As for the second question, which was about... what was it? No, I'm sorry, I lost track. I'm gonna have to ask you to get the question back.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115846	But there will be plenty of opportunity for that, because now it is Mr. Finn Sørensen again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115849	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the clear political announcement. Then we have a clear disagreement, and there I think the rapporteur really is a positive one, not in his position, but in relation to other conciliation parties which, like others, are trying to make things a little different. This is politics, we just disagree. The Radical Left believes that it is right that the level of cover for unemployment benefit should be increasingly reduced over the years. Then the question was: What about the benefit system and the experience of the benefit insured of this system, where LO has shown through a survey that 45%. Think it certainly doesn't provide the necessary security?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115929	Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116115931	Thank you for that and thank you for repeating the question that I had forgotten before. I am very keen to maintain confidence in the benefit system and that people should see it as a perfectly natural part of being insured against unemployment through the benefit system. I am also prepared to be vigilant about this, which means that will it be possible to continue indefinitely to reduce the value of the benefit system? I don't think so. It is not in a resolution from the Enhedslisten that we are going to decide how to reform this system by the year, but it is not the case that I think it is sacred and that we must stick to the current system always. On the contrary, we must always adjust it so that we have a high proportion of our employees who are unemployed insured through the A-box.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120014	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120023	Slowly, but surely, one of the most important pillars of the labour market was eaten up by rot and fungus, and we must act before this much-vaunted Danish model bursts together. And I must say that I cannot believe that the Socialists sold themselves so cheaply in the context of the 2015 reform and have now committed themselves hard to the mast of the right-wing ship. Instead, we must build a secure foundation even stronger, because that is the prerequisite for flexibility. Socialists, I hope you can do better than you have done today, when Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen merely expressed an understanding of the views of the LO and said that it was pleased with the debate. But the unemployed cannot live on words alone. The daily allowance has been 20%. less worth in the last 20 years or so. In 1995, the rate of benefit was 61 per cent. of a skilled worker's salary, while it now covers 49 per cent. of the financial loss of losing one's job. The view is a further erosion of the purchasing power of the daily allowance, but there are limits to how many hairs you can rip out of the head of a bald, and we are approaching the breaking point. Why should people continue to pay for insurance if conditions deteriorate? If the coverage of unemployment is poor, then the trade union movement will instead defend its members by negotiating long periods of notice home. Furthermore, we run the risk that fewer people will join and that private insurance schemes will grow and the result will be a rigid labour market and greater inequality. We call our system flexicurity, that is, flexibility and security in one, but the word should be composed in reverse, so that security came first, because that is how it works; it is security that gives flexibility. While the outside world looks admiring on Denmark and our dynamic labour market, we ourselves are cutting the system into slices. The Ministry of Finance and Employment have ended up as the united sausage cutting factories. For many years, slices have been cut after slice of a healthy sausage, and if we are not careful, one day we will find that the sausage is gone or that there is just a little dried-up sausage left on the cutting board. There's a big difference between the risk of getting fired from the job. We run the risk that the strongest, the highest-paid and the best-established 30-49-year-olds will opt out of the cashiers, and this will have dramatic consequences for the whole of society. The debate has often been about halving the benefit period to the current two years, but the cuts have consisted of so much more: the right to re-utilize benefit doubled. The rates of the graduates were reduced. Karensdays were introduced. Holiday allowance after illness has been abolished. There is no holiday money for graduates. And there has been a constantly decreasing level of benefit coverage in relation to the loss of earnings. There's a lot of holes in the ship. I think we should take good care of one of the biggest Danish success stories, namely our special way of organizing the labour market. We need to repair the holes in the ship and stop drilling more new ones. We need strong professional organisations, cooperative funds, good basic training, a solid benefit system. That is what gives dynamism and flexibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120416	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120418	I just have to say that what is always strong speeches and strong words from Mr. Karsten Hønge has something to rip hair off the head of a bald and cut the slice after the slice of a blunt sausage. Can the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party confirm that SF also has a skinned hair off the head of a bald, and that SF has also helped cut the last slice of that pool of pool, for SF has been involved in the stake pool negotiations, and SF was part of the 2012 tax agreement? - Sir... Karsten Hønge admits that they have been involved in the same thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120454	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120455	Well, this isn't about admitting anything, so SF is part of the tax settlement. And it was an expression of the power ratio that was in the government at the time when SF was just not strong enough to prevent the cuts that a massive majority of the government wanted. So it was merely an expression of cynical power in the government. Had it been to SF, it would of course not have been implemented. It was part of a larger agreement in which, at the time, we as a government party were involved in something that helped to bring about some of the deterioration.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120533	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120534	Yet I hear it as an admission that the Socialist People's Party did not today, but a few years ago it helped to rip off the hair of a bald and slice after slice of the last piece of sausage. These are just a few words that I heard the rapporteur use, but it is good to have the admission that SF has also been involved, even though it is then used as strong words. It's just nice to get that confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120559	Well, at least I'm glad to have given Mr. Simpson. Leif Lahn Jensen a lovely experience. But it is quite obvious that that is what happened now. It was not a disc by disc, it was a disc that was cut by the tax agreement, and it should never have happened. I thought it was some hacking that was made. I can't defend it in any way. It was merely an expression of arming in a government in which the SF was in government with a Radical Left which, as usual, saw it as a separate pleasure to cut back on the people who have the least and a historically right-wing social democracy that agreed to it. That was the explanation, but that is also the explanation for us. But that does not prevent us from making some improvements now, so why should we not try to rectify it instead of just seeing that things went badly then? Should we continue along the same path? No, on the contrary, I would say to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, we shall try to make this right.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120643	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120645	Thank you and thank you for a very good rapporteur speech. I would also like to express my thanks for an answer to Mr Seligman's question. Leif Lahn Jensen, who tells us a little about the difference between the SF and the Socialists in this question. SF recognizes that they have contributed to some things which have had a negative impact on benefit coverage, but unlike Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen shows a willingness to try to correct it. The rapporteur was not told, but is it the case that the rapporteur supports the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120719-2	Yes, the SF would like to support this resolution. One thing is to make some mistakes in your past, and it may be wrong enough, but it is quite wrong the day you say: we made mistakes, but we will not try to correct it. Okay, we drilled a hole in the ship, but we refuse to re-plug it. We'd like to stuff it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120738	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120739	So I must just thank you for the clear statement and then ask a question: does the rapporteur believe that this proposal is technically contrary to any of the agreements in which the SF is involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120755	Then it is the rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120757	No, we don't see that there's anything to prevent this improvement in the daily allowance. We may be part of the pool agreements, and we may have been part of a previous tax agreement, but that does not change the fact that this is only a fair improvement in some allowances; first and foremost, with regard to the people who are affected by unemployment, and secondly, with regard to maintaining one of the pillars of the labour market model we have, namely that we must have a solidarity fund system that provides proper coverage in the event of unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120826	With that, we thank Mr. Karsten Hønge. So we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116120840	Thank you, and thank you for the debate, which, if nothing else, provided us with some clarification of the positions of the various parties in relation to an issue which concerns a great many employees and the insured, namely: what financial situation do I find myself in if I become unemployed? That's what this discussion is all about. However, I would also like to thank the Minister and the other parties for their contributions to the debate. First of all, I would like to thank not least the LO, which has supplied a thorough piece of material and a concrete and extremely useful proposal in which they have even thought very well about politically. I'll get back to that. But first to the point. The LO has calculated that since the 1990s the value of the daily allowance compared to an average LO wage has been an average LO wage and not only the highest paid salary has decreased from 63 per cent. 54 per cent. That is what is called the gross compensation rate. In kroner and ear it corresponds to a decrease in the daily allowance value of DKK 2,500. a month or 30,000 kroner. on an annual basis. If we do not stop it now, the daily allowance value up to 2025 will decrease by an additional DKK 15,000. a year, so that the loss from the 1990s to 2025 will be 45,000 DKK. This is primarily due to political decisions made by a majority in this Parliament. The main reasons for the deterioration are the rate-pooling regulation, it is the even worse regulation that is being done as a result of the tax reform 2012, it is the introduction and later increase of the so-called employment allowance and other tax technical measures. It is just to mention some of those who have diminished the tax credit value of the member contribution. But now that can be enough, says LO, and Enhedslisten completely agrees with that. Now the reduction of the daily allowance value must be stopped, and so we do, by increasing the maximum daily allowance rate by DKK 13,400 in the period between now and 2025. At the same time, the contribution of members to the fund must be regulated only with price developments, and we will halve the contribution of members for young people under 25 years of age from those who are not quota-free because they are in training. It should actually be self-evident why this proposal should be adopted. You always have to start by asking the people it is about. The LO has done that, and the measurement shows that 45%. does not consider that the benefit system provides the necessary security. In fact, only 15% are convinced that it is safe and good enough, as it is in relation to the level of benefit. In view of all the toasts that are being held and we have got a couple of pieces today, how important it is with a safe daily allowance system, about the Danish flexicurity model, yes, one should assume that such a proposal would be adopted unanimously. But it doesn't have to be that way. That can only lead to one conclusion, and that is that it is in fact a purpose in itself for several parties here in the Folketing to make it more expensive to become unemployed. This is what has happened through one deterioration of the benefit system after another since the mid-1990s. The period of benefit has been drastically shortened, the requirement for the recovery of benefit has been doubled, the right to supplementary benefit has been reduced, the early retirement scheme has been reduced, carnage days have been introduced, lower rates for graduates, special punishment for the longterm unemployed, etc. etc. During the same period, cashiers have financed a larger and larger proportion of the daily allowance system. In 1995, employees paid 19 per cent. of the net cost of the benefit system, while today they pay 65 per cent. All in all, the insurers are paying more and more for an increasingly inferior product. This, of course, has an effect. If we withdraw students, the proportion of insured persons has fallen by 5 percentage points since 1995; this corresponds to 118,000 members. Unfortunately, the decline has been relatively greatest, especially among those most in need of the benefit system, namely the skilled and the unskilled, and this does not indicate that security is in order in the system. Of course, it will only get worse if we do not start to make things right. If the majority does not want to participate, this can only be due to the fact that you actually want to undermine the security of employees. You want to weaken the A-boxes, and it's not rocket science to find out why. It is about weakening employees in general and weakening the trade union movement, of course, with the aim of keeping wages down and, overall, making employees weaker vis-à-vis employers. It is employers' policy; it is what it is. So let me say something about this with the settlements. The LO has thought very well when they made their proposals. You know that there is a tradition in here where the parties tie each other up in conciliation that locks them and prevents them from helping to support things that should actually be in line with their policy to support. Now I look forward to the Minister's reply and I think the Minister will find it difficult to prove that this would be a conciliation breach if we did what Enhedslisten and LO are proposing, namely to regulate the maximum daily allowance rate. For what we are proposing is not to go in and break up existing conciliation; it is a proposal to regulate the maximum daily allowance rate. I am aware that it is not conciliation, but I can then be informed of this by the Minister. But I just want to say, it's sad if it's true. Because then the Social Democratic Party has also put its decision-making power on the vital question: how much should you have in cash benefits when you become unemployed? And that is just sad, and it only makes it more difficult to achieve real improvements on those points where there is such a clear need for it. Then there's funding. It is clear from the proposal that in direct net public expenditure this does not cost 2.7 billion. kr., it costs 500 million. kr. The second amount we have loyally mentioned, because it is from the strange calculator of the Ministry of Finance, which is based on the fact that when you improve the safety of the employee, they do not want to work; to put it briefly. That's what the thinking in that machine is. We are not buying that kind of thinking, but we have been so loyal to what can we say to the arguments of the government and the conciliation parties that we have said that that is what it costs to count in the crazy way. Otherwise, however, I just have to say that we are happy to take part in negotiations on another form of funding, but that is not the problem at the end of the day. If you listen to what the various rapporteurs say, including the Socialist rapporteur, you will understand that it is the political will to address this problem that is lacking. Because if the political will were there, we would not have tied ourselves up with what we call conciliation and agreements with the bourgeois parties and which prevent one from doing something good for the employees when there is a proposal for it in the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116121640	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116121704	I've been looking around a bit to see if the minister for the area was here or else the Minister for Employment should be working. We're just interrupting the meeting. I have been informed that the Minister is actually in a meeting, that he has been called and that it is a busy day. But we wait a little while and await the arrival of the Minister. There must be a report of how fast he can be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116122222	The meeting is resumed as the Minister for the Environment and Food is now present. The Minister has had a busy morning and has been sitting in the Committee on European Affairs, as I understand it, and although I will of course not fail to mention anything above and nothing beside the Folketing, we now welcome the Minister to the last item on today's agenda. The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116122314	Thank you very much for that, President. I strongly regret my delay, I was trapped in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, which is important, but not yet when the honour of the sock holders. Earlier this year, on 31 August, I chose to convene the Committee on the Environment and Food for information on the preliminary results of an American study. At the meeting, I briefed on the researchers' preliminary findings. They showed signs of a possible relationship between child leukaemia and four pesticides based on Danish data. The three pesticides are still authorised for placing on the market in Denmark. It is the substances pendimethalin, bromoxynil and fluroxypyr that are included in the resolution of the Enhedslisten, which we are going to discuss here today. First of all, although it should be obvious, I would like to stress that it is not acceptable, of course, if children or others become ill with pesticides used in Danish fields. It's self-evident. Researchers have indicated to the Ministry that the preliminary results are not sufficient to show a link between the use of pesticides and the development of child leukaemia. I only received a presentation from the scientists. Researchers have subsequently indicated that they have further analyses to perform and that these can change the results. They will in the first place only go ahead with the analyses at crop level, and then they will continue to look at whether they can see a connection to pesticides. For example: researchers are working to distribute the estimated consumption of pesticides in a more accurate way. It is important for their conclusions that they can say with the utmost certainty which expectant mothers have lived in the vicinity of fields during pregnancy where the pesticides mentioned above are sprayed. There have been several uncertainties associated with the first data set that has been used. The uncertainties are due to the fact that the information is based on sales figures for pesticides in the years 1996 to 2003, while consumption is distributed among crops on the basis of reports of syringe records from 2012 to 2013. It is not known whether the pesticides in question have actually been used in the fields near the mothers. Moreover, it is important to point out that the very preliminary data only indicate a statistical relationship, while no biological causal relationship between child leukaemia and pesticides has been described. This means that the provisional relationship may be random or may be due to other factors not taken into account in the investigation. Following the preliminary findings of the study, I have set up a working group with experts from universities and authorities. The working group has held the first meeting and they have discussed how to use new knowledge from population surveys in the future in the regulation of pesticides. The working group will meet again at the end of this month, and then I will send a note to Parliament with the recommendations of the working group. The motion for a resolution proposes an immediate ban on three of the pesticides from the study. Such a ban requires that there is a clear likelihood that an authorised pesticide would pose a serious risk to human or animal health or the environment. In addition, this risk should not be adequately managed by risk mitigation measures. It is not considered that the requirements for a ban at present. is fulfilled. This is also suggested by the fact that researchers themselves have rejected the use of their preliminary results to ban the substances concerned. If, at some point, there is such a basis, I will of course not hesitate for a moment to ban the substances in question. Against this background, the government rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116122803	Thank you very much, Minister. There are a number of brief comments, and we start with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116122811	I think the preliminary results we have seen are alarming because they are based on factual data from Denmark. Some data have been used from women and children in Denmark, which today give some indications that there is an increased risk of leukaemia if it is the case that they have lived within 500 metres of traditional farming. That is probably a fair term for it, because in all traditional farms the cereals on which these pesticides are used are grown. So there's actually a lot of people that this might be dealing with. And I would really like to ask the Minister if there is any indication in the preparatory work that has been done of how many thousands of women this could affect in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116122907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116122909	After all, I had the same reaction as sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen had when I first heard about this investigation. So, children and leukemia are two words that should not be put together, because it is so terrible that one can hardly contain it. And that's why I panicked too, no, maybe not panic, but was very alarmed until I got into it, and until I had got my people in the ministry to talk to these scientists who immediately said: No, don't respond to it because we don't yet have the final results, and this is a working hypothesis. I just have to mention that as the start of my answer, because yes, it is alarming, but if there is a risk, we really do not know yet. I don't have any figures on how many people live near this. I do not know whether such figures are available, but if so, I should be happy to forward them.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123018	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123020	In other cases of spray poisons it may be that it mainly concerns the employees who drive the poison sprayer. But here we are dealing with a case where there may be thousands of women who are just neighbours and not even close neighbours, within 500 metres, to a traditional agricultural field. It's a certain distance away. In my second question, I would like to know whether the Minister is satisfied with the slow pace of the work that has been started by the Minister. Now, you have finished spraying the crops this autumn, so an immediate ban will only have effect until spring, when some of these pesticides can be used again in the fields. Is the Minister satisfied that the first meeting of the working party set up by the Minister has gone so slowly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123111	I'm sorry that I'm starting somewhere else too, but for this it may be thousands that are affected: I just want to appeal to and that's why I called that meeting with all the parties of the Danish Parliament as soon as I had the information that you don't pour gasoline on the fire when you don't know if it's right. Well, in all silence, I'd just like to appeal to you to act properly in this case and not paint a certain gentleman on the wall, which I think Enhedslisten is a little busy. I have a great and burning desire that the group of researchers in America work faster; they do not really belong to my resort. I would very much like some answers to this, and I would very much like them soon, because I have the instinctive same reaction as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. But the working group I have set up, I have actually whipped it, I think it should be whipped, and I shall continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123212	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123214	Thank you very much. I just need to understand what the Minister said. Is it true that the researchers told the minister that he should not react, so that they simply made a political recommendation that the minister should not react to these findings at this stage? And on what grounds did they say that?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123234	It was not myself who spoke to the researchers concerned. The division of work within the Ministry is not like that, as Mrs Ida Auken may be aware after sitting there. But my people have spoken to the scientists. After all, we made sure to make contact immediately after, because we were also dismayed by this. And their recommendation was, no, don't act on this. Then why do I do it anyway? Then why do I call the parties of the Folketing? Because it had been publicly put forward what the researchers in connection with this conversation referred to as a working hypothesis. And when you publicly put forward a work hypothesis that contains the words pesticides and child leukaemia in the same sentences, it gives reason to shout guardly in the rifle. That is why I called all the rapporteurs to report on this; to avoid people acting inappropriately on it; to avoid creating panic, to say it as it is. But the recommendation from this was: you have to wait, this is a working hypothesis, and we have put it forward in order to get others to take an interest in the area, not to produce results.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123344	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123346	Yes, I know that the Minister is actually in a difficult situation, because it is impossible to impose a ban if you do not have a strong professional record of what you are building your ban on. It is, of course, a fact that I have also experienced in my time as Minister: that one can simply have difficulty getting through with the ban if one is not on a strong enough basis. What I would like to ask the Minister is a political position: should we not really have a quarantine option in our pesticide legislation, so that when there were substances under this type of suspicion, they could be quarantined for one or two years until this information came out? Should we not have such an opportunity in Danish pesticide and pesticide legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123427	This is one of the things that I myself had in my assessments at the beginning when I heard about this, i.e. if you could do it temporarily. I think it will be difficult because there are many hypotheses being made and because it may be a way of excluding certain pesticides, because for other reasons it is thought that they should not be on the market • it may be competitors that do so, and it may be others that do so. I think we have to say that we have to have some sort of conclusion that there is a connection and that it should not just be that somebody has said that in some way, that is to say that we can fairly firmly conclude that these things are therefore connected. Then we can say that we stop using it and then look into it. But there has to be such a degree of firmness in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123528	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123531	It is a little in line with that, because the Minister said in his speech that it is not the assessment that this ban can be made, and I would just like to ask that question. Who made that assessment, is it the Danish Environmental Protection Agency? When the Minister says that it is not the assessment, what is the assessment and on what basis is it not the assessment? Because is it not true that Denmark can well impose national bans, not permanent bans, but that it is possible to impose national bans in serious cases where it is said that there are some findings here which mean that we have to do so? And then you buy yourself some time until you get the rest of the EU system into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123620	Yes, we can do what is called an immediate ban and an immediate ban requires that there is a clear likelihood that a pesticide will pose a serious threat to human or animal health or to the environment, as I mentioned earlier in my speech. There isn't here. A working hypothesis has been put forward, as I was also informed at the July meeting. A working hypothesis has been put forward, we take it very seriously, and that is why I have set up this working group. But we also have to listen to what the scientists who are working on this say. Their message to us is: You can't act on this. We have also spoken to the Danish Health Authority • of course we have involved them; the Danish Health Authority also participated in this briefing meeting and their report is also clear: we have no indication that there is a connection here. There has been a statistical but not a biological relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123729	Mrs. Lea Wermelin, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123731	But we do have an indication that there is a connection. It is true that these are preliminary analyses, but they are of enormous concern, and it is of course a question of whether you should give the safety to the pregnant women who are if you believe that there is this connection. These are already very problematic substances, which are already being looked at in various ways in the European Union. What time frame does the Minister think is reasonable to reach a conclusion on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123803	I agree that my first and instinctive reaction was the same, namely that this is a matter of enormous concern, and that is also why I called on Mrs Lea Wermelin and the rest of the Committee on the Environment and Food, precisely to respond to the reaction I had had myself. For that is the only reasonable human reaction; it is the only logical response. That's why I called this meeting so that we could talk to people who know something about this, who are smart in this area, and who could guide us both from a pesticide point of view, but also from a health point of view. And then I came to the conclusion that we cannot act on this because there is no proof of consistency. Were I at some point tempted to say, "Well, then we're just forbidding it all, just in case? Yes, I was, but it would also have been to run along with some sort of panic feeling that I do not think is reasonable in that situation and that I do not think we as members of the Folketing should contribute to.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123917	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116123920	Thank you for that and first of all thank you to the Minister for responding quickly and inviting us to a meeting on 31 August, which I very much appreciate. And thank you also for the annex we just received yesterday, Annex 149, which is on the committee's website, where we get such a little information on some things that I wonder a little about. I mean, we get information about what it means for the economy, and some other things about the approval system. I would just like to address the meeting itself, because at the meeting of the Ministry on 31 August I asked if a desk survey could not be carried out as soon as possible in Denmark, which simply takes more recent data from Denmark. from 2011 onwards and connects them with the same kind of disease data that this research team has used. We can then have a better understanding of the link between the specific pesticides and the disease effects we are looking at. As I can see from both the task of the working group and the note we received yesterday, nothing of this kind has been done. So will the Minister initiate such a study and give priority to getting it done as soon as possible, possibly with the researcher from Denmark who has been involved in the work in the United States?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124044	In other words, the research group in America that is in the course of the study here has already planned to expand the study with newer Danish data, including farmers' injection journal reports from the period 2012-2016. If you had to examine a possible statistical link between all pesticides used in Denmark and selected diseases, it is therefore something to find a needle in a haystack. Over the years, more than 550 pesticides have been approved in Denmark, so this is not a task that can be tackled in such a way. I trust that the good American researchers will get this work up and come up with some conclusions that not only lean on the statistical but also on what is more tangible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124146	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124149	In a number of questions I have also asked the Minister about it more broadly, and I think that is what the Minister is responding to here in his reply, namely a question whether you could examine all Danish spray toxins and their effects. This is a huge task, I am aware of that, but what I am asking about here is: Could you do this study, where you take the three specific spray toxins that are also covered in this proposal, look at the spray records from 2011 up to and including 2017 • which I think there is data for now and simply do the same exercise and find out if there is this direct connection? This would both confirm the study on which the whole case is concerned, and it would also be able to give more precise information as to whether there is a real connection. How soon can this happen? The problem is that when you lean on the further work of the research team, it is at their pace. I think we are much more busy, so could we do so quickly at Danish request?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124248	I would like to look into the possibilities and return to that point. I would just like to finish by saying thank you for your comments. Christian Poll, and that is not something that is contrary to anything, sir. Christian Poll has said here now. Immediately after our meeting on 31 August, Mr. Christian Poll on the so-called social media Facebook: The survey has not yet been published and has not been reviewed by other researchers..., so it is reasonable enough that the minister does not go out with an immediate ban. In fact, this is not at all possible when we are a member of the European Union, because proper documentation needs to be presented if we want to implement a national ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124330	With that we can also thank the Minister and then we plan to hear the rapporteurs. The first is Mrs Lea Wermelin from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124354	Thank you. It is a deeply worrying matter that we are dealing with today, that is, that there should be a connection between three spray poisons and leukaemia, that is to say cancer in children, even produced from Danish data. So it's very, very natural that we take it seriously. I fully agree, as we have just discussed, that these are preliminary results, but it is also alarming that pregnant women in Denmark, who have lived within a 500 m radius of agricultural land, where they have been sprayed with these pesticides, have twice as high a risk of having a baby with leukaemia as otherwise, according to these preliminary conclusions. That is why it is also natural for us to act politically on it. I agree that it was a good thing that as parties we were called by the Minister to get these immediate results, but although we do not know for sure where we end up with the study, it is therefore important that we also send out the politically clear signal that the safety of children is, of course, above the use of pesticides. We have also said this publicly before dealing with the resolution here today, and in general we in the Socialist Group also believe that we must regulate the use of chemicals and pesticides harder and also harder than we do today, among other things. in relation to our drinking water. That is why I am also glad that we have the opportunity to discuss it. As confirmed by the Minister, there is a possibility that a ban can be imposed at national level in Denmark if the application, among other things, is carried out. has harmful consequences for health, and that's what this is all about. At the same time, we can also read that the pesticides involved in the EU system are already in some process because they are suspected of being harmful to health in various forms and need to be re-evaluated and others. So there is a warning light that flashes very strongly here. In fact, I think it is a good proposal made by my colleague from the Alternative, namely that, when we get such information, we in Denmark must undertake to take an active approach and not wait. I was trying to ask the Minister about the timetable. I do not really think there was an answer to that. It is clear that when it gives so much uncertainty, we need to help provide some answers. At the same time, in the Social Democratic Party, we have a slightly different approach to how we should deal with this type of information, i.e. whether we should regulate the use of pesticides in this Chamber, or whether this should be done as usual, you might say, in the Ministry at the negotiating table. As a starting point, this is also what we want to stand firm on today, but we want to make it clear that this is a very serious matter, and we also think that the Minister should take a more active part in this matter in addition to this working group set up and ensure that these pesticides are paused, quarantined and banned until we know for sure what is up and down.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124718	Thank you. There are brief comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124722	Thank you. Thank you for your concern. I note that the Social Democratic Party very rarely makes motions for resolutions, so it is perhaps a little foreign that other parties then cultivate that discipline a little more. I think it is appropriate to discuss what kind of studies it is that should be started, and now we have some preliminary studies where it has been looked at in relation to the people who live from 0 to 500 metres from these agricultural lands. And if you look at Bornholm, I guess it's almost every woman who's affected by this case. But I cannot help thinking: What if it is even more risky to live within the first 50 m or the first 100 m? Well, when you look at the wind drift that is from a sprayed field, it is of course those who live closest to you who have the greatest risk. So I think it's hard to just say that because there is a preliminary investigation and that some have started, that's just the one we have to settle for. That is why I am glad that the Social Democrats support the idea put forward by the alternative, so if this should not give rise to some studies being initiated by Denmark. So I really think it is fine if we can have a good discussion about what kind of studies are being started. And does the rapporteur not see that something like 500 metres should perhaps be looked at a little thoroughly?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124836	I have two children myself, so I am actually very interested in protecting pregnant women in Denmark. I just don't want to stand here on the platform and say that now I have to play scientist and define exactly what such a study should look like. But what is important to me is that we do not end up sitting on our hands, because if we are to be honest, the decision-making process that is in the European Union is slow, and that is also what we discussed when the Minister was on the floor, so that sometimes we will have to wait a long time for something to happen in the European Union. And that is why we have to assume from the Danish side to be proactive and ensure that we regulate pesticides well enough. And there I think we must invest some effort in that, when there is a concrete warning light in relation to this, we will ensure that something is put in place to ensure that we protect pregnant women in Denmark. How exactly that should be, I do not want to dwell on it here, but I think that is one of the things we need to use the committee procedure to ask questions about.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124943	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116124945	Well, this regulation of where to spray etc. is interesting to discuss, and it is actually grotesque that a farmer can spray all the way to where he no longer owns the land. And there can be a pregnant woman living in a house 5 metres away. So in this analysis of what is reasonable and so on, it could also be said that farmers are not allowed to spray all the way to the dome when people live close to the dome. Can you imagine a restriction that says you can't spray with these spray poisons 100 metres from houses where pregnant women live?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125032	Now we are moving into a different debate and we have also had it here at Christiansborg on peripheral zones and other things, in other words how we ensure the protection of our nature and the environment and also of human health. So that's where I think we might be moving into a slightly different room. In general terms, however, I would say that we are allies with the Enhedslisten in order to ensure strict and good regulation of our pesticides and, as I also said in my opening speech, we would like better protection for drinking water, for example, but this is, of course, a matter of protecting the well-being protection areas. So there's a lot of ways to go about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125110	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125113	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. I fully understand the concerns this raises. It's perfectly natural. There was one small thing about the rapporteur's speech, which I noticed, something factual, which was somewhat opposed to what the Minister presented, and this is the point about the use of these pesticides. What is actually involved in this study is at least the way I understand that there are some fields near these women where there are some crops on which these pesticides are authorised to be used. Actually, we know at this point. not whether these three different pesticides have been used in these specific fields. It is just that we may just remember it in committee so that everyone is absolutely sure what we are talking about here and what statistical basis there is doubt about. I do not know whether I heard correctly in the rapporteur's speech, but otherwise the rapporteur may just confirm to me that we share the same view of what data is involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125221	Now the rapporteur and I also had the opportunity to debate this a little before we came into the Chamber, and I am quite sure that it is preliminary results that lie and that they do not have all the data we would like, such as injection reports, in other words what has been specifically used. That's what Mr. Christian Poll, the rapporteur from the Alternative, asked and said: can we make some more recent data on this? So I'm pretty much in on that. This does not alter the fact that we in the Social Democrats believe that this warning light is very bright, and that is also why we need to act on it politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125257	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Lise Bech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125304	Thank you, President. The resolution is about us having an immediate ban on the sale and use of these pesticides. I would like to say straight away that it is quite clear that if we have substances that cause cancer to children and also to adults, then we must have them banned. However, the proposal before us today does not prove that they are the cause of child leukaemia. In fact, the researchers behind the study themselves informed the Ministry of the Environment and Food that it is a preliminary study that is subject to a great deal of uncertainty and that it can change. And we don't even know if it's the right data they've used. Researchers are carrying out further analyses, and the analyses concern the period from 1996 to 2003, and apparently Denmark does not have any data on pesticide use during that period, so it also helps to make these analyses very uncertain. But perhaps we can ask the Minister whether there has been a change in pesticide consumption compared with these substances from 1996 to today, when we really have very strict requirements. Well, let's take a look at that. But in fact, when all this came out in August, scientists said: We think that it is premature to notify the Parliament and the public about the study results at this time. So the fact that the Minister actually informed us of an unfinished investigation and set up a working group to follow the matter, I think that is actually a sign of openness, and that allows us to react immediately if these results show coherence. In fact, I think we should pay tribute to the Minister for this openness. According to Professor Per Kudsk of the Department of Agroecology at Aarhus University, only two of the substances are approved for use in the autumn, and they are not used very much in Danish agriculture. The researchers have announced that their scientific article will be completed this autumn, so the final results will be known before next year's growing season. The Danish People's Party cannot support Enhedslisten's proposal on the basis of a study that has not yet been completed, which the researchers themselves do not consider to be a clear link between the pesticides mentioned and child leukaemia at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125542	We thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, there are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125601	Thank you. It is good that the Minister has been on this issue from the very beginning and is following it closely and, as has been well explained, has set up this working group so that we can have a very precise basis for decision-making. And then the matter is in process, as has also been explained and debated earlier. Then we can add that Denmark is, of course, one of the countries with the most stringent rules for the authorisation of pesticides. Pesticides are only approved in Denmark after a thorough test and thorough examination, and it is also important that the decision on authorisation or prohibition is taken on a solid basis. When subsequent reports on pesticides come up, it is important that the reports are completed before conclusions are drawn. And the researchers and experts in this case have said that the report and the studies have not yet been completed, and therefore there is no clear basis on which to conclude. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, which we are considering first reading today, calls for an immediate ban on certain spray poisons containing three active substances on the basis of a presumed link in a study which has not yet been completed. Plant protection products undergo very extensive scientific analyses before being approved in the EU and at national level. This does not change the fact that we must, of course, take it very, very seriously if there is a link between the drugs and leukaemia in children, which we can say has been turned in the debate now on such a very preliminary basis and time. However, should this be the case, it must of course be banned immediately, as the Minister has also indicated. However, it is important in cases such as this that we do not act rashly and on an unfinished basis. We must await the final scientific results before we can deal precisely with that. We take the concern very seriously, of course, and that is why the Minister for the Environment and Food has set up this working group, as has already been mentioned. The professional basis must be in place first, and on this basis we in the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they cannot support this resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125829	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125834	I just wanted to ask something, because the rapporteur in the rapporteur's speech says that we must always act when we have the final conclusions. But does the rapporteur generally believe that we should not act politically, even if we do not necessarily know the final conclusion if there is a warning light that blinks and that says: there is really something here that can make children sick, for example? Then I think it is a very hard conclusion that you should not act on it, that you should not react to it, but wait. And on the other hand, how long should such uncertainty be allowed to flourish? In other words, again in relation to the time horizon: does the rapporteur have a proposal for this, or does the rapporteur also think that we could get something on the Danish side that actually makes it possible for us to get these conclusions a little faster?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125924	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116125926	Thank you. As the rapporteur may also have remarked, I also said in my speech that we all do exactly that in matters like this one, and we can hear that in the debate too, it takes it very, very seriously and seriously when it is that we hear that perhaps, possibly, perhaps, no one knows it yet, there may be a connection. It was therefore a good thing that the Minister reacted quickly and called us to get this information. But also note that the researchers themselves say that they are not finished with it yet. Therefore, we can also exactly in an area like this, where we also have the approach that the approval of pesticides in Denmark is, after all, through this very thorough test first we are at least among the countries that have the toughest certification systems • say that we have the same thing to stand on as a starting point. Then it is clear that when it comes, we must be obscene, and so are we, and we can only hope, of course, that the process that is in relation to it now will come as soon as possible. But I think it is important that we stick to the fact that we have to have this solid basis of decision in place before we reach the conclusion. So there is no basis, if I may say so, for taking the conclusions at this stage. But we all have an interest in getting this clarified as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130042	Then it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130044	I quite agree that we are all taking it seriously, but what we are discussing here is whether we should act on it. Should we do something active now and here on the Danish side? I am also impressed by the fact that the substances we are talking about, i.e. the pesticides, the active substances in it, are also being re-examined in the European Union. There are doubts about this, and throughout the review, you might say, there are indications that some of these substances might not be approved again. So there are more warning lights in addition to this specific one in relation to children and cancer, which makes you think: okay, shouldn't we act on it? Because one thing is to be informed of the study, but does the rapporteur think that we should also take an active step on the Danish side, either in terms of such a quarantine, an immediate ban or in terms of trying to get these conclusions as soon as possible? Or should we wait for the investigation to be complete? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130140	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130142	It has also been dealt with. The Minister has also explained to the working party set up to follow this closely. The Minister also reacted quickly, so one can also say that there has been as good a response as one can now in this situation. We all only have a desire to clarify this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130158	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130201	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned what kind of approval processes are in the European Union, and the rapporteur also stressed that these were very scientific and thorough studies. And following on from that, the rapporteur said that if these studies in the United States show that there is this link between leukaemia and these three toxins, then they must be banned. I would like to confirm whether that is where the Left is, namely that if these researchers, with the data they are examining and with the conditions laid in, come to the conclusion that there is a link between the data from Denmark and the assumption that there could be an increased incidence of leukaemia in women living within 500 metres of these traditionally cultivated fields, then the Left is prepared to introduce a ban when the results come to light.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130256	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130258	Well, if it were to be established on the basis of the studies that are now that there is that connection, then that spray is the cause of leukemia in children and people in general, well then we cannot live with it. It is clear, then, that it will be banned, but it has, in fact, already been answered earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130318	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130320	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130322	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130324	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130326	In other words, we are now at the end of the day with thanksgiving, and then we go to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Carsten Bach, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130336	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here, B 5, from the Enhedslisten, seems to me to have been tabled just quickly enough. But fair enough, it then gives us an opportunity to clarify the matter a little more in detail, a little more thoroughly in a public discussion here in Parliament. Thank you to the Minister for providing a fact-based assessment of the conditions of these drugs. I would like to say, first of all, that pesticides are now only authorised after very extensive scientific studies and analyses, and to assist with the subsequent risk assessment, the political system in the European Union has decided to establish what is called the European Food Safety Authority, and in everyday terms we call it EFSA. This has all been done in order to get the very best European experts in the field to make recommendations on the risks to the environment, health and so on. with the use of pesticides. Nevertheless, despite the very comprehensive system of approval, we must always take it very seriously when a study such as the one we are discussing today calls into question the impact on our health and the environment through the use of specific pesticides. However, as we have now heard from rapporteurs on the floor, there are interim results which are not yet sufficient to show a real link between the use of these named pesticides and the development of child leukaemia, and therefore there are no peer-reviewed scientific research results or a scientific article. The data seem to indicate only a statistical context, while, as I understand it and as I understood it on the Minister before, no real possible biological causal link has been described. In other words, it could actually be a coincidence or it could be due to other factors that have not been taken into account in these studies. Therefore, there is no yet robust professional basis for making a conclusion that would support an immediate ban. It is my belief that the regular use of pesticides must, of course, not in any way have adverse health or other negative effects on the health of our children or others. I think it is important that we examine this matter very carefully and, of course, support the Minister's actions. The Minister has already launched the setting up of a working group to examine the study once it has been completed and peer reviewed. The approval of pesticides must be carried out by professionals and not by us politicians here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and I therefore believe that if the Enhedslisten has even tabled a motion for a resolution on the immediate ban on this basis, it may be an expression of a certain degree of populism. Of course, I have a great deal of sympathy for this in the run-up to a forthcoming parliamentary elections, but I also think that this will create a totally unjustified fear among the people, from whom I have to distance myself, and that is why, and against this background, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130723	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130729	I would like to ask the rapporteur about this with the approval procedure, which the rapporteur is talking about, in relation to the European Union. I just don't think we all agree in this room that it just works the way it should. We would like the European Union to be more ambitious, to be able to regulate in relation to groups of drugs and other things. I would just like to make sure that I have understood the rapporteur correctly, so that the Liberal Alliance believes that the process of approval that is now in the European Union works as it should.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130803	Yes, far along the way, I believe that the approval process that is taking place in the European Union in this area works as it should. Then you can always talk about patience and time. Of course, you can always think that things should go a little faster. But it is also quite important in this context that it is materially justified that there is sufficient professional data and that the risk assessments have been worked out before taking a position on this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130834	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130836	The reason why I am asking is this precautionary principle, that is to say when we should act on the Danish side and do something active, for example. in relation to such a study, because in the European Union it is also the case that a substance within a group of substances can be banned, but then they can use similar substances that have very similar properties. Here we have said that we want to ban the group of substances so that we cannot just replace one kind of bisphenol with another. So it is just for the rapporteur to say that it works very well far along the way: is it only the time perspective where the European Union often takes a quite long time on what is a challenge, or are there also some of these places where we should look at where the European Union should be more ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116130922	I do not think I can do much more than repeat it. Actually, I think it's working pretty well. There is and must be complete professional support for these things. In time, you can always discuss whether you think that things are going too fast or slow. Denmark is already a very active player in the EFSA context, and in fact Denmark does not in many respects provide data on these substances, and it could then be discussed whether the Authority considers that it is relevant in this context that some new professional data from Denmark should be submitted to EFSA on this basis. It will be the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the Danish Health Authority that will have to deal with it. It could be. I certainly have no basis for saying that it should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131006	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131010	No matter when the elections should take place, we are always prepared to put forward this kind of proposal when there is some information that there could be a significant risk of these pesticides and the risk of children having child cancer. I think these matters are easy to deal with because there is an alternative. There is, of course, the alternative to organic farming. There may be other cases in relation to chemicals where it can be difficult to see how to do without this substance in production and what we can replace it with. But here we have a reality out there where, instead of growing the soil with pesticides, one can choose to grow it organically. So we have thus seen an alternative to getting rid of these toxins, and I think it is relevant that we have a debate on how careful we should be and how critical we should be about the authorisation procedures in the European Union. Is health and doubt high enough? Or is it financial interests that run this? In fact, I think that is an important debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131118	Yes, it is an important debate that can be taken in all sorts of places. What I put forward in this way was that I think that on the technical basis that is present and that the questioner has also been presented to the Ministry at the time, on 31 August, as I recall, it is a very hasty act on the part of the Enhedslisten to table a motion for a resolution on the immediate ban in the Parliamentary Assembly. That is what I mean blowing to a fear in the population that is totally unfounded. It is quite correct that this is an alternative. I am so arranged that the type of farming that each farmer should choose should be determined by the development of the market in Denmark. Ecology is a mode of farming in Danish agriculture that is in progress, and that is great. I am also very much in favour of efficient farming, and part of modern, technologically efficient farming is also pesticides.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131214	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131216	But if you leave it to market forces, then it is economic considerations that are going to be the most important, and then there is some health and environment that goes further down the scale. There, Enhedslisten just has a completely different approach to our agriculture, and I think it is interesting to see that the operating results in organic farming are economically good. So there's kind of an alternative. This is not just something that exists because there is an alternative that is not real. It is fully real, fully permissible and can be operated completely without pesticides and produce a good economic result. That is what I think we should be more inspired by and that we should have more popular initiatives to promote ecology in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131258	That is absolutely correct. If there is money in it, if I may say so, and if the people want to buy organic products, then we will see a situation in which Danish agriculture is equally quietly transformed into organic use. But this is not something that I will in any way legislate on or take a stand on in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131322	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. Next in line, sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131329	Thank you. When I was invited on short notice to an orientation meeting with the Minister on 31 August this year, it was with great concern that I appeared. At the meeting we were informed of a study carried out by an international research group, which had been presented in provisional form at a conference. The study indicates a connection between children's leuchemy and the pregnancy's residence distance to fields with crops that have probably been sprayed with a number of well-known spray toxins. The study was not yet published or reviewed, i.e. checked by other researchers, and there is only statistical indication of a relationship that may be due to factors other than the spray toxins mentioned in the study. Nevertheless, the study's indications are appalling and call for rapid reactions. I immediately asked the Minister four questions. They are called Questions 960-963 to push for a speedy resolution of the problem, among other things. through the working group set up by the Minister. Answers have been given to my questions and yesterday the Committee on the Environment and Food was given an initial briefing on the work to follow up on this serious matter. Everyone can read the appendix as no. 149 on the Danish Parliament's website. For many years I have been deeply concerned about what I call the great chemistry experiment, the fact that we use more than 200,000 chemicals in the world, but that for the vast majority of us we know very little about them. We have a complex authorisation system in the European Union, of which Denmark is also a part, and there we have a number of procedures that are far too comprehensive and slow and that protect chemical producers far better than it protects nature and citizens. For the vast majority of chemicals we have a kind of reverse burden of proof, that is, that the substances must be used unless it is scientifically proven that they are dangerous. However, with the widespread lack of knowledge about the spread and degradation of the substances and their effects, there is a worrying experiment in which substances are put into use and only many years later, when there has been great damage, can be banned when you discover that they are more dangerous than you thought at first. For a few uses of substances, we have chosen the apparently correct approach, namely that the substances may only be used after thorough studies have been carried out and these absolve substances for effects on, for example. animals and humans. Syringe poisons are indeed one of these areas, and it should therefore be thought that there is complete control of which spray poisons can be used and that this is done without risk to nature and people. Unfortunately, that is not the case. We see time and time again that substances we thought were safe are banned after new studies have been carried out. That is why, in the alternative, we would like to see a complete conversion to organic production, where pesticides are not used, and that is why we also support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution to ban immediately the use of the substances which the researchers' studies point to the danger of. We are not comfortable with the licensing system for pesticides, and we are concerned that a large number of substances which are today spread every year in the open country may have been authorised but which should never have been released in this way. It is also clear in a note to the aforementioned Annex 149 where a complex patchwork of spray-poisoned agriculture has got its way into. In the note, a ban is made of the three substances with complex explanations that there are resistance problems with other pesticides and that those we would like to ban are necessary to balance the use of these other pesticides. Moreover, the three pesticides are already under attention and maybe on the way to being phased out into the EU system, but it may take many years for this to happen. All the complex balancing on the edge of various serious issues can be overcome by choosing organic production. So if there is only a minimal risk of the research team being right, we must allow the precautionary principle to be right and intervene. That is why the alternative supports the proposal. And I should say hello from the SF and say that they also support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131737	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131740	Thank you. As the debate has shown, we all take the information that came out a few months ago very seriously and seriously, and we have all signed up to the fact that the Minister has set up the working group to get to the bottom of this. I am a little surprised that today the Alternative's rapporteur is swinging up in the high clouds on this and is trying to spread, I would say not fear, but something that, like blowing a little into the fire, because usually it also has to be knowledge- and fact-based. That's also what usually comes from the alternative. That is the only way to say that many of the funds that were injected years ago are banned today. I also believe that, despite the very tirade-based rapporteur speech that has been made here, the rapporteur recognises that today we have one of the toughest certification systems in the world in Denmark. Then the rapporteur would not like to take it into account in his reply to this brief remark from me that it is a good thing that we are among the countries that are in the shoes to have a good look at and checked very carefully before we approve the pesticides.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131854	It is true, as the Minister also mentioned in his reply to me, that I have been out, immediately after this meeting was held on 31 August, to write that I think we should be careful to regulate too quickly, because now we have to find out more knowledge so that we can confirm what the researchers have found out. Now we have waited two and a half months, and what we got yesterday from the Minister is, in fact, just a description of how expensive it will be for agriculture, and then a description of how troublesome and delaying the EU system is. That is why we have taken the decision in the Alternative that we are in favour of an immediate ban because we simply need to react quickly. The obvious desk studies that I proposed at the meeting have not been initiated, which are about the possibility of taking newer data and directly linking them. That would provide clarity. We have not received this, so we are therefore in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131956	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116131958	In the alternative, you take a new line now, and then you no longer make your decisions, I understand, based on facts and knowledge. One takes, and now it may be going too far to say hovsa decisions, but it looks almost like it is from the outside. What if another day comes with the fact that there are no problems at all in this, how will the alternative deal with it? It is quite clear if we look at what the data is on the table now. There is no basis for taking these conclusions, decisions at this stage. Why is it that the alternative completely disappears and will no longer rely on facts and concrete information?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132043	I think we are now doing this, because what we are doing is leaning on the concerns of the researchers in their study, and then we are allowing the precautionary principle to prevail, a little in response to the fact that we have not received a rapid explanation from the Minister, who could actually have given us some quick answers. I believe that we could have had a study of recent syringe journal data quite quickly, coupled with the health/disease picture and the birthcohorte in Denmark, and then got a quite quick answer. We need to react now with the precautionary principle. That's what we're going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132120	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132124	I am glad that the alternative now supports this immediate ban by Enhedslisten, and when I listen to Christian Poll's speech, I completely disagree with Erling Bonnesen that it should be some tirades. This was, in fact, a very realistic speech close to the reality of the spray trail in the field. I think it is a good thing that there are politicians in the Folketing who point out that the approval procedures that are around pesticides could be better. That is why we have this debate. There are a lot of approved substances in agriculture, and then there have been researchers who come and do studies that show that they still have a harmful effect. It has been shown repeatedly. One can just hear it from the Minister saying that there have been 550 different pesticides that have been used in Danish agriculture. So that's not the range you have now. So we have been in a process where for some years we have had funds which were approved and which were then found to be harmful. I think that is a good thing, so thank you for your speech and your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132225	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132229	Thank you for the support for our process in the Alternative where, of course, we have also discussed it in our parliamentary group. For us, it is important to try to raise your eye sometimes and look at the systems we have screwed together. I think that when a research group comes and presents a concern, you have to respond promptly to it and quickly find out if there is anything about it here. The answer we received yesterday from this work that has been set in motion in the working group does not make me feel that we have moved forward, and therefore it is extremely important that we make a response, that is to say we get some steps taken, so that we can stop use as soon as possible until we are absolutely sure that there is no problem. It is the other way round, as it is today, that we are waiting to see whether we should look after the profession and, in the meantime, we are not looking after the citizen well enough. I think it should be turned upside down, and that is what this immediate ban can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132332	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left, who is standing by on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132342	Thank you very much. When it comes to pesticides, there are five different things we need to be careful about. First of all, we must be careful that there is no residue or as little as possible in the food we consume. There is, in fact, one of the countries with which Denmark is very good, and if you are going to eat vegetables that are not organic, then I would suggest that you choose some Danish vegetables because they actually usually have fewer pesticide residues, among other things. because we have a restrictive system in Denmark. So it is, in fact, a competitive advantage for Danish farmers that we have tough rules in this area. Secondly, we must pay proper attention to our groundwater and our drinking water and ensure that the pesticides cannot end up in groundwater and in drinking water, and that is why we radically want protection areas around all our drinking water wells. Thirdly, attention must be paid to resistance, i.e. to creating problems in other areas of use of pesticides. Fourthly, of course, the farmer's working environment is that he is being looked after when he uses these tough means. And then there is one fifth thing that we have not actually talked about so much, and that is what this is all about today, and that is the neighbours of farmers. There are now women who may find that, because they have lived within half a mile of conventional farming, they must actually relate to an increased risk of leukaemia. I understand if neighbors and women out there think that is unreasonable and that is something we should take seriously. Then I would like to say that I think the Minister has acted quickly. I think it was good that he published it and gave this transparency to the public when this new information came in. I also know from experience that it is difficult to sit and just pull a ban out of my pocket, and in fact I do not think it is Parliament's job in such a difficult area, which will require legal struggle from door to door, to stand in here and adopt an immediate ban. But I think something more needs to be done than what is being done at the moment. In fact, this puts us in the place where we have stood many times in recent months and in the past year or two: we have to pick up the whole system and look at it again. I think we should have some sort of quarantine option in our authorisation system, where we can say that when substances give rise to this suspicion, we have to carry out a quarantine for a year or two, or until they are properly examined, so that the uncertainties really benefit citizens and health and groundwater. It is clear that it should not be the case that anyone can just draw a card and say: now there is uncertainty. But when new professional knowledge comes in, you can take it in. And perhaps I should like to ask the Minister whether he should consider making a health professional committee which, like the Wildlife Management Council, can advise the Minister and make some recommendations. You could put people with health knowledge to see if this is something that is actually so serious that we have to take action on it now. I think it would create security for the people. It would certainly mean that we should not be in a situation where it is the Folketing that is about to legislate on individual substances, which I would think was a rather strange situation to be in. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister to provide some evidence that these researchers have said that this is not something that needs to be dealt with yet. I believe it, but it would be nice to be comforted by the fact that those who have found this knowledge say that we can take it easy. Then I would like to ask the Minister if there is an opportunity to use the precautionary principle to make such a quarantine option in Denmark, where we have just a little stricter rules. We would also like answers to that in this committee process. So, in order to keep a little life in the pot and not to put this case to death, we will wait to decide whether we will vote for such a proposal here or not. We would actually like to make it politically and take further steps with the Minister. It could be that together with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative and the SF Social Democratic Party we also had some concerns that we could write a joint report contribution, preferably with a majority in the Folketing behind which we actually say that now we are going to try to see if we were going to create a new system around our approval system. Then we could really allow the uncertainties that arise on an ongoing basis, which we will continue to see, to benefit groundwater and human health and to provide security in the population, and in fact also to farmers, so that they do not have to feel that what they are doing is dangerous and illegal, but that they can rely on the authorisations they have received as a farmer. I think it would be a good way for us to go to create this security, and I very much hope that some will be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132828	Thank you, and there is one comment from Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132832	Thank you. The rapporteur is also in the habit of putting a great deal of emphasis on professionalism and thoroughness and on making decisions on a precise basis. The rapporteur himself has tried to be a minister and knows it. I fully understand that the rapporteur is just asking about the documentation provided by the Minister. But my question is whether it does not also make a very solid impression on the rapporteur, when it comes to the Minister himself, that these researchers have said that the information that is now available is, as it were, to provide information, but that we are not ready to make our conclusions and recommendations yet. That must, of course, make a good impression on the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132914	Yes, that is precisely why I think it would be very nice to have that documentation in the Folketing, that is, that it is the attitude of those who are dealing with professionalism that we should not intervene right now and that they do not consider it so serious that we should actually do what I understand the proposers want with this proposal, namely to intervene now, because it is a very serious suspicion if it is there. So I think it is quite crucial that we get that knowledge into the Folketing so that we can also sleep well at night.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116132940	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116133002	Thank you. It is, of course, a proposal for a parliamentary resolution to introduce an immediate ban on the sale and use of pesticides with the three active substances pendimethalin, bromoxynil and fluroxypyr. We have proposed an immediate ban, and it can be said that these funds have been sprayed this autumn, so if there is a majority in the Folketing for an immediate ban, it will be something that will take effect from spring when some farmers again want to spray their fields. I very much believe that the doubts should benefit children and health rather than that, as always, it is agriculture that has the most to say and that it is agriculture that is the most to be taken into account. I understand that the economic consequences of banning these three pesticides will be in the order of 60 million. kr. to 150 million kr. Is that a lot? Agriculture receives more than 10 billion. kr. in agricultural aid. Can we therefore allow ourselves to make some demands on agriculture on how they should cultivate their land? I think so very much. I also think that these bans are easier to talk about when we are in the situation that farmers can choose to grow organically. It is, in fact, a mode of operation which has been well tested. We are in Denmark on the way for it to cover 10%. of our area. If you look deep into the economic figures, it is quite well said in Jutland for the ecologists, also seen over several years and seen over several different production branches. So there is an alternative for those farmers who are considering parking the poison spray and cultivating their farmland in a different way. What we have been politically presented with is that we received an email from the Minister for the Environment and Food here at the end of August. When I read it, I thought: Is it the drinking water in Copenhagen that is contaminated? Fortunately, it wasn't. But it was a serious matter that we were informed of, in other words, these preliminary results which some researchers are examining and which are, in part, based on concrete data from Denmark. After all, these are substances that are now widely legally sprayed in the fields in Denmark, and the results the researchers are looking at are based on concrete data from Denmark on women and children. A limit of 500 m from the fields has then been chosen when the health risks of living so close to conventionally cultivated agricultural fields have been investigated. The preliminary results show that children may be at increased risk of developing child leukaemia if their mothers have lived in the vicinity of fields where some syringes have been sprayed during pregnancy. This must be said to be deeply disturbing, and I think it is good that the Minister for the Environment and Food reacted fairly quickly and set up this working group to follow the new research under way. The minister made a lot of effort to stress the seriousness of the case and said to TV 2 on September 1, 2018: "These are children we are talking about. It's pregnant. And I'm gonna say hello and that this is something I'm gonna do something about, and that's something I'm working on. I'm putting my entire system on alert. But I'm not gonna press the big alarm button until we know if there's anything about it. The Minister also said to the same media: "If there is evidence that these drugs cause cancer to children, I would not hesitate to ban them for a second. So even if it's about children and pregnant women, the preliminary result is not enough for the Minister to step on the brakes and temporarily take the suspected spray poisons from agriculture until it is clear. We in the Group of the European People's Party think that this could be done in the right way by adopting an immediate ban. The Minister could have done that. Then I am well aware that there was to be a process in which one had to explain to the European Union why one was acting, but one had to take that conflict. Now we can see that agriculture has been allowed to spray on over the autumn and waiting for the working party's notes. Apparently something needs to be delivered at the end of November, i.e. Approx. 3 months after a possible context has been learned. We don't think that's fast enough. It may be sensible to set up a working group to follow the case, but that is obviously not enough. We cannot sit in such a position as to suspect that some of the pesticides sprayed in the fields in Denmark may cause blood cancer for children to be ignored. We think that the only sensible thing is to step on the brakes and introduce a temporary immediate ban until the matter is examined further. That ban should apply from today until the entire investigation is available. I think that this matter concerns all people, especially women, who live 500 metres from traditional farming. And I also find it a little thought-provoking that some scientists have chosen this 500 m limit, but I cannot help thinking that there must be some people living closest to the fields who may be exposed to spray residues from nearby fields. And the toxic effect must be greater, the closer you live in the fields being sprayed, and it must be depending on how the weather is the day being sprayed. I would like to thank you for the debate. I understand that the Folketing fully shares this concern about whether there is this connection. There are then some parties who are prepared to support the Enhedslisten's proposal for an immediate ban; I would like to thank the Alternative and the SF for having the clear position today. I note that if you are going to, what to say, rank the concern, there is a team of radicals and social democrats who are following closely and also have a concern and can see that there may be some approval procedures that are not good enough, and then some others are defending the European Union somewhat more. I think that the alternative's suggestion that follow-up studies should be ordered on the basis of the specific injection records over the last decade could be extremely interesting and relevant. It will then be based on the specific spraying that has taken place over recent years, and then it must also be possible to have data on leukaemia that has so far been found in the children who have been born there afterwards. It is a little creepy to talk about this kind of thing, because if it is the case that the preliminary investigations from the United States are right, then we have a serious problem. It is no wonder that we have an agriculture in Denmark that fills so much, and we have so many people who live relatively close to that agriculture. I think that this ban should be introduced immediately, and I think that this issue also contributes to the fact that there is another argument that organic farming has many advantages, including in relation to our health. The fact that some foods can be produced without pesticide residues shows the latest study by the Danish Food Safety Authority. Danish ecology is a safe choice; it is completely free of pesticide residues. Then we have a health aspect which is about what the public is at risk when living close to traditional farming. This is probably an aspect which has been somewhat overlooked in the general debate, but I would like to say that it is in fact existing for us who live in rural areas. The metallic smell that you might get in your nose at certain times when you go out in the countryside is not something you like. So I think it is essential that we look more closely at whether the authorisation procedures that exist in the European Union are restrictive enough against pesticides. I think it will be important to assess whether there are any studies that the Folketing should initiate, so that it is not just waiting for the final results of the international investigations to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116133903	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116133906	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's recognition that, as I hear it, all the parties present in the debate recognise and are quite obsessed with the fact that this information is of course taken seriously and seriously when it arrives. Thank you, too, for recognising that the Minister has responded quickly and has set up the working group so that we can get this right. That really surprises me, because in many other contexts one hears Enhedslisten argue that it has to be based on facts, it has to be on a solid decision-making basis etc. But then, in this case, I think the rapporteur is quite obscene about that, the researchers themselves have said that they just wanted to provide this information from the start, because perhaps, perhaps, something might be something. You're not sure. You yourself say that you are not near being able to draw conclusions yet and that you have to continue working on it. It was a small piece of information that we received, of course, an important piece of information, because it is in this area where it is a very serious issue. But what I want to see is that when there is no basis to draw a conclusion, why does Enhedslisten react so strongly? Because if you had to take that line in all sorts of other contexts, it would be one husa decision after another from one case to another. Then, in many other cases, there was no reason to have, if I may say so, all the different studies and to provide a solid basis for decision-making. Then you could just snap your fingers and say yes or no, as you might think one day. Should we not try to look a little further into it, that is to say have a proper and solid basis for decision-making? Or has Enhedslisten completely abandoned it?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116134044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116134048	We are very objective in the Enhedslisten, and when we are dealing with such a matter, we really think that the doubt should benefit the children and pregnant women, and that it makes it a little easier to say that we are making this immediate ban. Because there is an alternative to traditional farming. You can choose to grow your land organically. So there's kind of an alternative. This makes it much easier to say that this is an immediate ban. There could be other cases where you have some poison that was necessary for a production and where you had difficulty replacing it with something else. Here we have traditional farming which can be replaced by organic farming. So that makes the process here much simpler. I would also like to say that it may be that the problem is greater, because 18 pesticides have been investigated. And it says in these papers that we have received from the minister that there are some more drugs that could end up on the list. So it may be that the problem is bigger than what we have. So I don't think we're overdramatic. It may be that the solution must be more far-reaching than the immediate demand for three substances proposed by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116134154	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116134158	Then I am not surprised, because it is quite clear that this matter is going to be used for something quite different. It is to be used to remove the part of the production out there that Enhedslisten does not like, and then promote something quite different. That is even more worrying. When you do it on a non-existent knowledge base, it is almost shocking. You just have to say that it's fair enough somewhere... these 30 seconds aren't enough for now... that Enhedslisten would like to promote some forms of production and shut down others, but it's a different debate. And that is what we are trying to do on an incomplete basis. I find that extremely worrying. Then Enhedslisten will not try to consider again whether you should have looked down the annex that the minister is in the process of replying to Mrs Ida Auken on about these researchers and they say themselves that they are not actually ready yet. Is that really what Enhedslisten is laying the foundations for his decisions and his political line?
ParlaMint-DK_20181116134302	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116134305	I think it is quite natural that when researchers come up with something that is preliminary, they go out and stress that it is preliminary results. I guess they have their professional skills. The Enhedslisten is a political party and we are working to ensure that we have sustainable production in Denmark. We are not in favour of eliminating production. We are in favour of converting to sustainable agricultural production and of making room for healthy food that does not have harmful effects on health, and of making room for more nature out there. I don't think that's so hard to prioritise. And if we have a case here that indicates that there are strong risks to the health of some pesticides, then we are, in fact, prepared to ban it immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116134342	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. Thank you to the participants in the service of democracy such a Friday afternoon. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. There are no objections. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20181116134405	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 20 November 2018, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00 I shall refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website and, moreover, refer to the weekly schedule, which also appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
